FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20030429143934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 29, 2003 PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY ----------------------------------- (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-13245 75-2702753 - ------------------------------- ----------- --------------------- (State or other jurisdiction of Commission (I.R.S. Employer incorporation or organization) File Number Identification Number) 5205 N. O'CONNOR BLVD., SUITE 1400, IRVING, TEXAS 75039 - ------------------------------------------------- ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's Telephone Number, including area code : (972) 444-9001 Not applicable (Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits: (c) Exhibits.............................................. 3 Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure................................... 3 Signatures.......................................................... 4 Exhibit Index....................................................... 5 2
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits 99.1 News Release dated April 29, 2003 ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE The following information is being provided pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K: The information in this document includes forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company"), are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause the Company's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, government regulation or action, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the Company's ability to replace reserves or implement its business plans, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are available from the Company or the Securities and Exchange Commission. On April 29, 2003, the Company issued a news release that is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. The news release announced the Company's financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003; provided the Company's second quarter 2003 financial outlook, based on current expectations; and provided information regarding the Company's oil and gas price hedges. 3
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY S I G N A T U R E S Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Date: April 29, 2003 By: /s/ Richard P. Dealy ------------------------------------------ Richard P. Dealy Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 4
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1* News Release dated April 29, 2003 - ------------- * filed herewith 5

EXHIBIT 99.1 NEWS RELEASE Investor Relations Contact: Susan Spratlen (972) 444-9001 Pioneer Reports First Quarter 2003 Results Increases Production 16% over Prior Year Quarter Dallas, Texas, April 29, 2003 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company ("Pioneer") (NYSE:PXD) today announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. First Quarter Results Pioneer reported net income of $84.2 million, or $0.71 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2003. Results included a $15.4 million, or $0.13 per share, benefit from the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, which prescribes the accounting for future asset retirement obligations. For the same period last year, Pioneer reported a net loss of $2.0 million, or $0.02 per share, which included a noncash charge of $5.4 million, or $0.05 per share, for the remeasurement of Argentine peso-denominated net monetary assets. Cash flow from operations for the 2003 first quarter was $136.8 million compared to $50.0 million for the same period in 2002. Total first quarter 2003 oil and gas sales increased 16% from the prior year quarter to average 128,444 barrels per day (BPD) on a barrel oil equivalent (BOE) basis. First quarter oil sales averaged 31,894 BPD and natural gas liquids sales averaged 22,033 BPD. Gas sales in the first quarter averaged 447 million cubic feet per day (MMcfpd). Realized prices for oil and natural gas liquids for the first quarter were $25.82 and $22.00 per barrel, respectively. The realized price for gas was $4.06 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf), and North American gas prices averaged $4.68 per Mcf. First quarter production costs of $5.54 per BOE were higher than anticipated primarily due to start-up costs associated with the Canyon Express project. Exploration and abandonment costs of $35.9 million for the quarter included $10.4 million of geologic and geophysical expenses including seismic costs, $2.0 million of noncash leasehold abandonments including expired leases and $23.5 million of exploration costs. For the same quarter last year, Pioneer reported oil sales of 34,541 BPD, natural gas liquids sales of 21,539 BPD and gas sales of 328 MMcfpd. Realized prices for the 2002 first quarter were $23.17 per barrel for oil, $10.73 per barrel for natural gas liquids and $2.47 per Mcf for gas. Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman and CEO stated, "We've had a strong start for 2003. Our Canyon Express gas project has reached full production rates, we initiated production from our operated Falcon field ahead of schedule and under budget and announced a successful exploration well and development plan at Harrier, our first Falcon satellite discovery. We also announced a discovery in Alaska and are encouraged by the early evaluation work we've done to establish commerciality." "Our current daily production is up approximately 45% from 12 months ago with just two of our five large projects on stream, and we look forward to first production from the other three projects over the next 12 months. We are evaluating several discoveries and have an active exploration program underway to keep the pipeline of projects flowing at capacity." Financial Outlook The following statements are estimates based on current expectations. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the following statements. The last paragraph of this release addresses certain of the risks and uncertainties to which the Company is subject.
Second quarter 2003 production is expected to average 150,000 to 165,000 BOEs per day. Second quarter lease operating expenses (including production and ad valorem taxes) are expected to average $4.85 to $5.15 per BOE based on today's NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. Depreciation, depletion and amortization is expected to increase to $6.50 to $6.90 per BOE as a larger proportion of the Company's production is derived from higher cost Gulf of Mexico fields. Total exploration and abandonment expense is expected to be $25 million to $50 million, and general and administrative expense is expected to be approximately $14 million. Interest expense is expected to be $24 million to $26 million and income taxes are expected to be approximately $5 million, principally due to income taxes in Argentina and minimal alternative minimum tax in the U.S. as the Company benefits from the carryforward of net operating losses in the U.S. and Canada. The Company's oil and gas hedges are outlined on the attached schedule. The range of expected daily production for the second quarter is expanded as a result of the production variability inherent in bringing high volume, high impact wells into an otherwise relatively stable production mix. Included in the second quarter guidance is a reduction in net Falcon production volumes reflecting the one-eighth royalty that becomes effective when the average NYMEX gas price exceeds $4.10 per Mcf in any calendar year. The Company is also widening the range of expected 2003 production to 55 to 60 million BOE to reflect the Falcon royalty and the heightened variability related to high volume wells. The Falcon field is performing better than expected, and the Harrier discovery has the potential for early start-up, while first sales from the Sable field are now expected in the third quarter. With a full year of production from new fields brought on in 2003 and the addition of at least two large fields in late 2003 or early 2004, the Company expects 2004 production to range from 63 to 75 million BOE. Earnings Conference Call This morning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern, investors will have the opportunity to listen to the first quarter earnings call and view a presentation over the internet via Pioneer's website located at http://www.pioneernrc.com. At the website, select 'INVESTOR' at the top of the page and then choose 'Webcasts/Earnings Calls'. To listen to the live call, please go to the website early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available on the website shortly after the call. Alternately, you may dial (800) 946-0712 (confirmation code: 245690) to listen to the conference call and view the accompanying visual presentation at the Internet address above. A telephone replay will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112: confirmation code: 245690. Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Argentina, South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. Pioneer's headquarters are in Dallas. For more information, visit Pioneer's website at www.pioneernrc.com. Financial statements and schedules attached. Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this News Release are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward- looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneer's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, government regulation or action, foreign currency valuation changes, foreign government tax and regulation changes, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneer's 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (in thousands) (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except for per share data) (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in thousands) (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUMMARY PRODUCTION AND PRICE DATA
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION (in thousands) (Unaudited) EBITDA and discretionary cash flow (as defined below) are presented herein, and reconciled to the generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measure of net cash provided by operating activities, because of their wide acceptance as financial indicators of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur debt. EBITDA and discretionary cash flow should not be considered as alternatives to net cash provided by operating activities, net income (loss) or income (loss) from continuing operations, as defined by GAAP. EBITDA and discretionary cash flow should also not be considered as indicators of the Company's financial performance, as alternatives to cash flow, as measures of liquidity or as being comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL HEDGE INFORMATION As of April 23, 2003 Open Oil Hedge Positions ------------------------ Open Gas Hedge Positions ------------------------ Deferred Gains (Losses) on Terminated Hedges (in thousands) -----------------------------------------------------------


