FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20030331184407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 31, 2003 PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-13245 75-2702753 - ------------------------------- ----------- --------------------- (State or other jurisdiction of Commission (I.R.S. Employer incorporation or organization) File Number Identification Number) 5205 N. O'CONNOR BLVD., SUITE 1400, IRVING, TEXAS 75039 - ------------------------------------------------- ---------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's Telephone Number, including area code : (972) 444-9001 Not applicable (Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits: (c) Exhibits............................................. 3 Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.................................. 3 Signatures......................................................... 4 Exhibit Index...................................................... 5 2
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits 99.1 News Release dated March 31, 2003 99.2 News Release dated March 31, 2003 ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE The information in this document includes forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause the Company's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, government regulation or action, foreign currency valuation changes, foreign government tax and regulation changes, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the Company's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war and terrorism. These and other risks are described in the Company's 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are available from the Company or the Securities and Exchange Commission. On March 31, 2003, the Company issued two news releases that are attached hereto as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2. The news release included herein as exhibit 99.1 announced, together with related information, (i) that production began from the Company-operated Falcon field in the western deepwater Gulf of Mexico on March 15, 2003 and that the two-well development is currently producing approximately 185 million cubic feet of gas and 650 barrels of condensate per day, (ii) that the Company has approved the development of the Harrier discovery, which has estimated gas reserves of 55 to 80 billion cubic feet, as a single-well subsea tie-back to the Falcon field facilities, and (iii) that the Company has acquired the remaining 25 percent working interest that it did not already own in 32 blocks in the Falcon area, including the Falcon field, the Harrier field and related satellite prospects from Mariner Energy ("Mariner") for a net cash payment of approximately $113 million including normal closing adjustments and the assumption of certain contractual obligations of Mariner. The Mariner transaction was approved by Mariner's board of directors and was closed on Friday, March 28, 2003, with payment into escrow. The transfer from escrow is contingent upon receipt of a no objection notice from the creditors committee of Enron Corp., which owns an interest in Mariner. The news release included herein as exhibit 99.2 announced, together with related information, (i) that the Company has set a new Company record for North American gas production with the addition of production from the Falcon field, the second of five significant projects that the Company plans to bring on stream through early 2004; and expects that the Company's worldwide daily production will be up approximately 80 percent from where it started in the second quarter of 2002 and that U.S. gas production is expected to be up approximately 180 percent over the same period in 2002 and (ii) provided an update on operations conducted during the first quarter of 2003, including results of its development and exploration drilling activities. 3
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY S I G N A T U R E S Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Date: March 31, 2003 By: /s/ RICHARD P. DEALY ------------------------------------------- Richard P. Dealy Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 4
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description 99.1* News Release dated March 31, 2003 99.2* News Release dated March 31, 2003 - ------------- * filed herewith 5

EXHIBIT 99.1 NEWS RELEASE Investor Relations Contact: Susan Spratlen (972) 444-9001 Pioneer Announces First Production from Falcon Field, Approves Harrier Development and Acquires Additional Interest in Falcon and Related Projects Dallas, Texas, March 31, 2003 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company ("Pioneer") (NYSE:PXD) today announced that the Pioneer-operated Falcon field in the western deepwater Gulf of Mexico began producing on March 15, 2003. The two-well development is currently producing approximately 185 million cubic feet of gas and 650 barrels of condensate per day. Pioneer also announced that, as part of a broader transaction discussed below, it has acquired its partner's 25% working interest in the Falcon field and related projects and now owns 100%. The field is Pioneer's first operated deepwater project, and first production was achieved two weeks ahead of schedule with less capital investment than was budgeted. Pioneer has acquired the remaining interest in 32 blocks in the Falcon area, including the Falcon field, the Harrier field and related satellite prospects from Mariner Energy ("Mariner") for a net cash payment of approximately $113 million including normal closing adjustments. Pioneer has also assumed certain contractual obligations from Mariner. The transaction was approved by Mariner's board of directors and was closed on Friday, March 28, 2003, with payment into escrow. The transfer from escrow is contingent upon receipt of a no objection notice from the creditors committee of Enron Corp, which owns an interest in Mariner. Pioneer also announced that it has approved the development of the Harrier discovery as a single-well subsea tie-back to the Falcon field facilities. Pioneer now owns a 100% working interest in the Harrier field which has estimated gas reserves of 55 to 80 billion cubic feet. An additional parallel pipeline connecting the Falcon field to the Falcon Nest platform on the Gulf of Mexico shelf will be added to the Falcon facilities doubling the capacity to 400 million cubic feet of gas per day. Pioneer expects first gas from the Harrier field within nine months with combined daily gas production from Falcon and Harrier expected to reach 275 million cubic feet per day. The Company plans to drill two additional prospects in the Falcon area during 2003 that, if successful, could also be tied back to the Falcon field to utilize the excess pipeline capacity. In addition, Pioneer has a multi-year inventory of prospects on the 32 blocks it holds in the area. The Falcon field is located 100 miles east of Corpus Christi in 3,400 feet of water in East Breaks 579/623. The field and surrounding satellite discoveries are being produced via subsea wells tied back to a host platform located on the shelf approximately 30 miles away. The platform, Falcon Nest, and other facilities are owned and operated by El Paso Energy Partners, L.P. Pioneer has drilled three satellite wells in the Falcon area during 2003, the Harrier discovery and two other wells that were unsuccessful. Falcon is the second of five significant projects Pioneer plans to bring on stream through early 2004. Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman and CEO, stated, "With Falcon on stream, our worldwide daily production is 50% higher than it was just one year ago, and U.S. gas production is up 135% over the same period. By approving the Harrier satellite project for immediate development, we add significant value and gas production growth in 2004. The capital invested in the additional pipeline to the Falcon Nest platform also provides added capacity to more aggressively pursue other prospects in the area with the potential to further impact 2004 production and value." Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Argentina, South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. Pioneer's headquarters are in Dallas. For more information, visit Pioneer's website at www.pioneernrc.com.
Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this Document are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneer's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, government regulation or action, foreign currency valuation changes, foreign government tax and regulation changes, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneer's 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

EXHIBIT 99.2 NEWS RELEASE Investor Relations Contact: Susan Spratlen (972) 444-9001 Pioneer Reaches Record North America Gas Production, Provides Update on Operations Dallas, Texas, March 31, 2003 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company ("Pioneer") (NYSE:PXD) today announced that with the addition of production from the Falcon field, the second of five significant projects Pioneer plans to bring on stream through early 2004, it has set a new company record for North America gas production. Canyon Express, a deepwater Gulf of Mexico gas development, was the first project to start up with initial production in the third quarter of 2002. Sable, an oil development offshore South Africa, is expected to begin producing during the second quarter of 2003. Harrier, a Falcon satellite, and Devils Tower, a deepwater Gulf of Mexico oil and gas development, are expected to follow in early 2004. Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman and CEO, stated, "Our daily North America gas production, including our 100% working interest in Falcon, has reached 560 million cubic feet per day, a record for Pioneer. With three additional projects to bring on over the next ten months, we expect that our worldwide daily production will be up approximately 80% from where we started in the second quarter of last year before Canyon Express was added, and our U.S. gas production is expected to be up approximately 180% over the same period." Pioneer also provided an update on operations conducted during the first quarter of 2003, including results of its development and exploration drilling activities. Earlier in the quarter, the Company announced a discovery on its Harrier prospect near the Falcon field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and today announced in a separate press release that the discovery has been approved for development as a single-well subsea tie-back to its Falcon field. Pioneer has additional prospects on the 32 blocks it holds in the Falcon area and plans to drill two additional exploration wells this year. Pioneer also announced a joint gas exploration program covering the shallow-water Texas shelf region of the Gulf of Mexico with plans to drill five wells in 2003 and at least three wells in 2004. The first well of the program is currently drilling, and the Company expects to add a second rig to the program during the second quarter. Drilling operations are concluding on Pioneer's initial exploration prospect in Alaska. Three wells were drilled on the NW Kuparuk prospect to test a possible extension of the productive sands in the Kuparuk River field into the shallow waters offshore. Although all three of the wells found the sands filled with oil, they were too thin to be considered commercial. The wells also encountered thick sections of oil-bearing Jurassic-aged sands that are currently being tested. The first well flowed at a sustained rate of approximately 1,300 barrels per day and will be shut in for a pressure build-up test. The test results will be evaluated to determine the commercial viability of the Jurassic reservoir. Onshore U.S., the Company continues its aggressive development program and is running six rigs in the Permian area, three rigs in the Gulf Coast area and four rigs in the West Panhandle and Hugoton fields. In South Texas, Pioneer has had success in extending the Pawnee gas field with the latest well test flowing 2.5 million cubic feet per day. Additional acreage has been acquired in the area and the Company plans to drill the first well on the new acreage in April. Pioneer is also successfully targeting shallow tight gas sands on its acreage in East Texas. To date in 2003, the Company has drilled 54 development wells onshore U.S. with 29 wells currently producing and 25 wells being completed. In Canada, Pioneer drilled 16 exploratory wells to test several shallow gas plays. Seven of the wells found multiple gas- bearing zones based on open-hole logs and mud log shows. Unseasonably warm weather resulted in a very short drilling season in Canada, and the wells will have to be tested during next year's winter drilling season. Three wells were drilled to test the Slave Point formation in the Ladyfern field area. One well was successful and is currently being connected to a production pipeline, one well is being evaluated and one well was unsuccessful. In addition, 40 wells were drilled in Canada in the core
producing fields with 21 wells connected this season. As a result of winter drilling activities, Pioneer expects its Canadian production to increase by 16 million cubic feet of gas per day net to the Company. As a result of a successful oil development program in Argentina where Pioneer is running three rigs, daily production rates currently exceed planned volumes. Pioneer plans to drill 40 wells in Argentina during 2003. In Tunisia, where Pioneer plans to drill at least six wells this year, an exploration well targeting Triassic-aged sands on the Jorf block did not encounter significant hydrocarbons and was abandoned. Pioneer's second well for the year is currently drilling on the Anaguid block, and the Company plans to spud another well on the block within 30 days. Both wells target the same Silurian-aged sands as were found in the Company's Adam discovery. Development of the Adam discovery is progressing with first production expected by early summer. Pioneer plans to begin drilling a well offsetting the Adam discovery in the Borj El Khadra (BEK) block in May and plans to spud another BEK exploration well during the third quarter. The first of three 2003 exploration wells planned in South Africa is expected to spud in early April on a prospect that is on trend with the Boomslang discovery drilled in 2001. Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Argentina, South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. Pioneer's headquarters are in Dallas. For more information, visit Pioneer's website at www.pioneernrc.com. Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this Document are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneer's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, government regulation or action, foreign currency valuation changes, foreign government tax and regulation changes, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneer's 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


