FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20040507124726.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 7, 2004 Pioneer Natural Resources Company ------------------------------------------------------ (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-13245 75-2702753 - ---------------------------- ------------- ------------------ (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 900, Irving, Texas 75039 - ------------------------------------------------ ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (972) 444-9001 ---------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not applicable ------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits........................................... 3 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition........... 3 Signature......................................................... 4 Exhibit Index..................................................... 5 2
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits 99.1 News Release and Schedules Attached to News Release dated May 7, 2004 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition The information in this document includes forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company"), are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause the Company's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, government regulation or action, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the Company's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are available from the Company or the Securities and Exchange Commission. On May 7, 2004, the Company issued a news release with financial statements and schedules that are attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. In the news release, the Company announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004, provided an operations update and provided the Company's second quarter 2004 financial outlook based on current expectations. 3
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY S I G N A T U R E Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Pioneer Natural Resources Company Date: May 7, 2004 By: /s/ Richard P. Dealy ----------------------------------------- Richard P. Dealy Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 4
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description 99.1 (a) News Release and Schedules Attached to News Release dated May 7, 2004 - ------------- (a) filed herewith 5

EXHIBIT 99.1 NEWS RELEASE Investor Relations Contact: Susan Spratlen (972) 444-9001 Pioneer Reports Record Production and First Quarter 2004 Results Dallas, Texas, May 7, 2004 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company ("Pioneer") (NYSE:PXD) today announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. Pioneer reported net income of $60.2 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2004. For the same period last year, Pioneer reported net income of $84.2 million, or $0.71 per diluted share, which included a $15.4 million, or $0.13 per share, benefit from the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143. Cash flow from operations for the first quarter was $253.6 million compared to $136.8 million for the same period in 2003. The Company reduced long-term debt by $98.8 million during the first quarter of 2004 to $1.46 billion. First quarter oil and gas sales averaged 185,858 barrels per day (BPD) on a barrel oil equivalent (BOE) basis and represented a new record for Pioneer. First quarter oil sales averaged 47,733 BPD, an increase of 54% as compared to the same period last year, and natural gas liquids sales averaged 23,406 BPD. Gas sales in the first quarter averaged 688 million cubic feet per day (MMcfpd), a 54% increase over the same period last year. Realized prices for oil and natural gas liquids for the quarter were $28.31 and $22.21 per barrel, respectively. The realized price for gas was $4.41 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf), while North American gas prices averaged $5.04 per Mcf. First quarter production costs averaged $5.27 per BOE. Exploration and abandonment costs of $80.5 million for the quarter included $21.8 million of geologic and geophysical expenses including seismic costs and $4.2 million of noncash leasehold abandonments. For the same quarter last year, Pioneer reported oil sales of 31,894 BPD, natural gas liquids sales of 22,033 BPD and gas sales of 447 MMcfpd. Realized prices for the 2003 first quarter were $25.82 per barrel for oil, $22.00 per barrel for natural gas liquids and $4.16 per Mcf for gas. Operations Update In January, Pioneer achieved first production from the Harrier gas field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and from the Hawa oil field onshore Tunisia. The deepwater Gulf of Mexico Devils Tower field achieved first oil production in early May and the Company recently drilled a discovery well on its Goldfinger prospect, the second satellite discovery to the field. Goldfinger and Triton, the first satellite discovery, are expected to be jointly developed via subsea tieback to the Devils Tower spar for first production in 2005. Two deepwater development projects in the Falcon corridor, Tomahawk and Raptor, are proceeding on schedule with first production anticipated during the second quarter. Onshore development continues with ten onshore rigs running in the U.S. and five rigs running in Argentina. During the first quarter, Pioneer drilled 61 wells in the U.S., 44 wells in Canada and 12 wells in Argentina. In early April, Pioneer also acquired additional interests in the Spraberry field in West Texas, expanding its inventory of drilling locations. In Argentina, Pioneer's drilling activities continue to confirm the presence of significant deep gas reserves. First quarter gas production from Argentina was the highest summer production in the Company's history, and Pioneer expects to complete the expansion of its Loma Negra gas plant over the next few months,
increasing plant capacity by 25% as demand peaks during the winter months in Argentina. The Company is also acquiring additional 3-D seismic in support of future drilling plans. Commercialization plans are progressing for existing discoveries in Gabon, Alaska, South Africa and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Financial Outlook The following statements are estimates based on current expectations. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the following statements. The last paragraph of this release addresses certain of the risks and uncertainties to which the Company is subject. Second quarter 2004 production is expected to average 180,000 to 195,000 BOEs per day, reflecting the incremental production expected from Devils Tower, Tomahawk and Raptor, the variability of oil cargo shipments in Tunisia and South Africa, and the seasonal increase in gas demand during Argentina's winter season. Second quarter lease operating expenses (including production and ad valorem taxes) are expected to average $5.20 to $5.70 per BOE based on current NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $8.00 to $8.50 per BOE as a greater proportion of the Company's production is being produced from higher-cost basis deepwater Gulf of Mexico and South Africa properties. Total exploration and abandonment expense is expected to be $25 million to $50 million. General and administrative expense is expected to be $16 million to $18 million. Interest expense is expected to be $20 million to $23 million and accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be approximately $2 million. Cash income taxes are expected to be $3 million to $6 million, principally related to Argentine and Tunisian income taxes and nominal alternative minimum tax in the U.S. Other than in Argentina and Tunisia, the Company continues to benefit from the carryforward of net operating losses and other positive tax attributes. The Company's financial results and oil and gas hedges are outlined on the attached schedules. Earnings Conference Call This morning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern, Pioneer will discuss its first quarter financial and operating results with an accompanying presentation. The call will be webcast on Pioneer's website, www.pioneernrc.com. At the website, select 'INVESTOR' at the top of the page. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available shortly after the call. Alternately, you may dial (800) 474-8920 (confirmation code: 601422) to listen to the call via the telephone and view the accompanying visual presentation at the website above. A telephone replay will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112: confirmation code: 601422. Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia. Pioneer's headquarters are in Dallas. For more information, visit Pioneer's website at www.pioneernrc.com. Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this News Release are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward- looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneer's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, government regulation or action, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneer's 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (in thousands)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except for per share data) (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in thousands) (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUMMARY PRODUCTION AND PRICE DATA (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (in thousands) (Unaudited) EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow ("DCF") (as defined below) are presented herein, and reconciled to the generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measures of net income and net cash provided by operating activities because of their wide acceptance by the investment community as financial indicators of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur debt. The Company also views the non-GAAP measures of EBITDAX and DCF as useful tools for comparisons of the Company's financial indicators with those of peer companies that follow the full cost method of accounting. EBITDAX and DCF should not be considered as alternatives to net income or net cash provided by operating activities, as defined by GAAP.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL HEDGE INFORMATION As of May 6, 2004 Open Commodity Hedge Positions Open Interest Rate Swap Hedge Positions (a) Net Deferred Gains (Losses) on Terminated Hedges (in thousands)


