FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20040202171813.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 2, 2004 PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY ----------------------------------- (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-13245 75-2702753 - ---------------------------- --------------- ---------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification Number) 5205 N. O'CONNOR BLVD., SUITE 900, IRVING, TEXAS 75039 - ------------------------------------------------ ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code : (972) 444-9001 Not applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits: (c) Exhibits.......................................... 3 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.......... 3 Signatures....................................................... 4 Exhibit Index.................................................... 5 2
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits 99.1 News Release and Schedules Attached to News Release dated February 2, 2004 ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The information in this document includes forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements, and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company"), are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause the Company's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, government regulation or action, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the Company's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are available from the Company or the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. On February 2, 2004, the Company issued a news release with financial statements and schedules that are attached hereto as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2. In the news release, the Company announced financial and operating results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003, provided an operations update and provided the Company's first quarter 2004 financial outlook based on current expectations. 3
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY S I G N A T U R E S Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Date: February 2, 2004 By: /s/ RICHARD P. DEALY ------------------------------------------ Richard P. Dealy Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 4
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description 99.1* News Release and Schedules Attached to News Release dated February 2, 2004 - ------------- * filed herewith 5

EXHIBIT 99.1 NEWS RELEASE Investor Relations Contact: Susan Spratlen (972) 444-9001 Pioneer Reports Record Earnings and Cash Flow for the Year and Reports Fourth Quarter 2003 Results Dallas, Texas, February 2, 2004 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company ("Pioneer") (NYSE:PXD) today announced financial and operating results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003. Pioneer reported net income of $57.4 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2003. For the same period last year, Pioneer reported net income of $18.4 million, or $0.16 per diluted share. Cash flow from operations for the fourth quarter was $217.0 million compared to $104.0 million for the same period in 2002. The Company reduced long-term debt by $65.9 million during the fourth quarter of 2003 to $1.56 billion, improving the ratio of long-term debt to total book capitalization to 46.9% from 54.8% at the end of 2002. With a 36% increase in oil and gas production for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, Pioneer reported record net income of $410.6 million, or $3.46 per diluted share. This compares to net income of $26.7 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, for the same period in 2002. Cash flow from operations for 2003 was a record $763.7 million as compared to $332.2 million for 2002. Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman and CEO, stated, "We are pleased to end 2003 with record earnings and expectations for 15% to 25% production growth yet to come in 2004. We have set a high standard of performance, and all Pioneer employees should be proud of the Company's success." Fourth quarter oil and gas sales averaged 167,690 barrels per day (BPD) on a barrel oil equivalent (BOE) basis. Fourth quarter oil sales averaged 43,574 BPD and natural gas liquids sales averaged 22,889 BPD. Gas sales in the fourth quarter averaged 607 million cubic feet per day (MMcfpd). Realized prices for oil and natural gas liquids for the quarter were $26.60 and $19.46 per barrel, respectively. The realized price for gas was $3.54 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf), while North American gas prices averaged $4.06 per Mcf. Fourth quarter production costs averaged $4.81 per BOE. Exploration and abandonment costs of $25.3 million for the quarter included $18.4 million of geologic and geophysical expenses including seismic costs and $6.9 million of noncash leasehold abandonments. For the same quarter last year, Pioneer reported oil sales of 31,248 BPD, natural gas liquids sales of 22,591 BPD and gas sales of 380 MMcfpd. Realized prices for the 2002 fourth quarter were $22.96 per barrel for oil, $16.08 per barrel for natural gas liquids and $2.75 per Mcf for gas. Operations Update In January, Pioneer achieved first production from the Harrier gas field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and from the Hawa oil field onshore Tunisia. The deepwater development projects ongoing on the Devils Tower, Tomahawk and Raptor fields are proceeding as expected with first production from these fields expected mid-year. The Company has begun its 2004 onshore development program, running eight onshore rigs in the U.S., seven rigs in Argentina and two development rigs in Canada. During the fourth quarter, Pioneer acquired additional interests in the Spraberry field in West Texas expanding its inventory of drilling locations. The Company is participating in three exploration wells currently drilling in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and expects to participate in one additional well later during the first quarter. Pioneer is running one rig to drill exploration wells
in Canada and one rig in Gabon to test potential extensions of its Olowi field in an effort to refine its development plans there. The Company also plans to drill a wildcat well offshore Gabon later this quarter. On the Gulf of Mexico shelf, Pioneer's Midway well in the Brazos area (block A-39) was drilled to a total measured depth of 20,496 feet and will be temporarily abandoned following the installation of a production liner. The well encountered 30 feet of net gas pay and is expected to be tied back to the existing production platform on Brazos A-39 with first production anticipated during the second half of 2004. Three other intervals with an additional 60 feet of gas bearing sands were also encountered and will require additional analysis to determine future commercial potential. Pioneer is the operator of the well with a 37.5% working interest. Woodside Energy (USA) Inc. holds 37.5% and Noble Energy Inc. holds a 25% working interest. Commercialization studies are progressing on potential development options for existing field discoveries in Alaska, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Argentina and on the potential to commercialize the significant gas reserves contained on Pioneer's leases in South Africa. Financial Outlook The following statements are estimates based on current expectations. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the following statements. The last paragraph of this release addresses certain of the risks and uncertainties to which the Company is subject. First quarter 2004 production is expected to average 168,000 to 183,000 BOEs per day, reflecting the incremental production from Harrier which began producing in January, the variability of oil cargo shipments in Tunisia and South Africa and the seasonal decline in gas demand during Argentina's summer season. First quarter lease operating expenses (including production and ad valorem taxes) are expected to average $5.00 to $5.50 per BOE based on today's NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $7.75 to $8.25 per BOE as a greater proportion of the Company's production is being produced from higher-cost basis deepwater Gulf of Mexico and South Africa properties. Total exploration and abandonment expense is expected to be $25 million to $85 million. The first quarter range includes a number of high-impact deepwater Gulf of Mexico wells that are in progress, up to five wells expected in Gabon to further refine development plans and test a new exploration target, increased exploration drilling in Argentina and the winter drilling campaign in Canada. Due to the width of the range, the Company plans to update guidance when the majority of the wells are drilled. General and administrative expense is expected to be $17 million to $20 million, $2 million to $3 million of which relates to estimated performance-based compensation costs. Interest expense is expected to be $21 million to $23 million and accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be approximately $2 million. The Company recognizes deferred income taxes reflecting its tax position in each of its areas of operation. However, cash income taxes are expected to be only $3 million to $5 million, principally related to Argentine income taxes and nominal alternative minimum tax in the U.S. Other than in Argentina, the Company continues to benefit from the carryforward of net operating losses and other positive tax attributes. The Company's financial results and oil and gas hedges are outlined on the attached schedules. Earnings Conference Call This morning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern, Pioneer will discuss its fourth quarter financial and operating results with an accompanying presentation. The call will be webcast on Pioneer's website, www.pioneernrc.com. At the website, select 'INVESTOR' at the top of the page. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available shortly after the call. Alternately, you may dial (800) 500-0311 (confirmation code: 501635) to listen to the call via the telephone and view the accompanying visual presentation at the website above. A telephone replay will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112: confirmation code: 501635.
Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada, South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. Pioneer's headquarters are in Dallas. For more information, visit Pioneer's website at www.pioneernrc.com. Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this News Release are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneer's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, government regulation or action, foreign currency valuation changes, foreign government tax and regulation changes, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneer's 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except for per share data)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in thousands)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUMMARY PRODUCTION AND PRICE DATA (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (in thousands) (Unaudited) EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow ("DCF") (as defined below) are presented herein, and reconciled to the generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measures of net income and net cash provided by operating activities because of their wide acceptance by the investment community as financial indicators of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur debt. The Company also views the non-GAAP measures of EBITDAX and DCF as useful tools for comparisons of the Company's financial indicators with those of peer companies that follow the full cost method of accounting. EBITDAX and DCF should not be considered as alternatives to net income or net cash provided by operating activities, as defined by GAAP.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL HEDGE INFORMATION As of January 30, 2004 Open Oil Hedge Positions ------------------------ Open Gas Hedge Positions ------------------------ Net Deferred Gains (Losses) on Terminated Hedges (in thousands) ---------------------------------------------------------------


