FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20051103083319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 3, 2005 Pioneer Natural Resources Company ------------------------------------------------------ (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-13245 75-2702753 - ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 900, Irving, Texas 75039 - ------------------------------------------------ ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (972) 444-9001 ---------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not applicable ------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: | | Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) | | Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition............. 3 Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits............................................ 3 Signature............................................................. 4 Exhibit Index......................................................... 5 2
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition The information in this document includes forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which may cause the Company's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof, other government regulation or action, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, availability of drilling equipment, the Company's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in the Company's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are available from the Company or the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. On November 3, 2005, the Company issued a news release with financial statements and schedules that are attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. In the news release, the Company announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, provided an operations update and provided the Company's fourth quarter financial outlook based on current expectations. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits 99.1 News Release and Schedules Attached to News Release dated November 3, 2005. 3
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY S I G N A T U R E Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Date: November 3, 2005 By: /s/ Darin G. Holderness ----------------------------------- Darin G. Holderness Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 4
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ------------ ----------- 99.1(a) News Release and Schedules Attached to News Release dated November 3, 2005. - ------------- (a) filed herewith 5

EXHIBIT 99.1 NEWS RELEASE Company Contacts: Investors: Frank Hopkins or Chris Paulsen Media and Public Affairs: Susan Spratlen (972) 444-9001 Pioneer Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Dallas, Texas, November 3, 2005 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company (NYSE:PXD) today announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Pioneer reported net income for the quarter of $124 million, or $.88 per diluted share, an increase of 53% over net income for the same period last year of $81 million, or $.67 per diluted share. Income from continuing operations was $105 million, or $.74 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations of $77 million, or $.64 per diluted share, for the same period in 2004. Pioneer's net income for the quarter included discontinued operations of $30 million ($19 million after-tax) related to the divestiture of its interest in non-core assets on the Gulf of Mexico shelf. Net income also included a $33 million pre-tax charge ($21 million after-tax) related to the incremental abandonment obligation for the East Cameron 322 field which was lost during Hurricane Rita. Insurance is expected to cover this cost as well as the value of the platform and lost revenues. Insurance recoveries will be recognized as income in future quarters as the amount of the recoveries becomes known. Cash flow from operations for the third quarter was $318 million, an increase of 33% compared to $239 million for the same period in 2004. The increase in operating cash flow is attributable to higher prices for oil, gas and natural gas liquids partially offset by cost increases. Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman and CEO, stated, "We had a strong quarter and have made significant progress in executing the strategic initiatives we announced in September. We completed most of the first phase of our share repurchase program, repurchased $217 million of bonds and increased our semiannual dividend by 20%. In October, we opened data rooms covering the assets we have targeted for divestiture in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Tierra del Fuego in southern Argentina. Our increased 2005 drilling programs are on track, and we've made significant progress towards sanctioning a project to commercialize our gas reserves offshore South Africa." During 2005, Pioneer has repurchased 19.8 million shares for $941 million, including $641 million of the $650 million share repurchase program announced on September 1 for execution during 2005. A $300 million repurchase program concluded earlier in the year. Third quarter oil and gas sales averaged 169,255 barrels oil equivalent per day (BOEPD), excluding 1,831 BOEPD associated with fields sold during the quarter that are reflected in discontinued operations. Third quarter oil sales averaged 41,938 barrels per day (BPD) and natural gas liquids sales averaged 20,595 BPD. Gas sales in the third quarter averaged 640 million cubic feet per day (MMcfpd). Third quarter prices for oil and natural gas liquids were $40.66 and $34.53 per barrel, respectively. The worldwide price for gas was $5.70 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) and includes $.37 per Mcf associated with the VPP transactions. North American gas prices averaged $7.10 per Mcf, including $.48 per Mcf associated with the VPP transactions. Third quarter production costs averaged $7.61 per barrel of oil equivalent (BOE). The increase in third quarter lease operating costs is attributable to increases in commodity prices resulting in higher production taxes, decreases in deepwater Gulf of Mexico production which has lower per BOE operating costs and price increases in services and supplies related to field operations. Exploration and abandonment costs were $64 million for the quarter and included
$11 million of dry hole and abandonments associated primarily with unsuccessful wells in Argentina and Tunisia, $33 million of incremental abandonment charges associated with the aforementioned East Cameron 322 field which was lost during Hurricane Rita, $17 million of geologic and geophysical expenses including seismic costs and $3 million of delay rentals and unproved acreage abandonments. General and administrative costs for the quarter were $33 million. For the same quarter last year, adjusted to exclude discontinued operations from asset sales, Pioneer reported oil and gas sales of 170,298 BOEPD, including oil sales of 44,004 BPD, natural gas liquids sales of 20,933 BPD and gas sales of 632 MMcfpd. Prices for third quarter 2004 were $33.29 per barrel for oil, $26.89 per barrel for natural gas liquids and $4.11 per Mcf for gas. North American gas prices averaged $5.08 per Mcf. Operations Update During the third quarter, Pioneer continued the aggressive pace of development set earlier in the year. Currently, the Company has 18 onshore rigs running in the U.S., five in Argentina, five in Canada and one in Tunisia. As discussed above, Pioneer's East Cameron 322 platform was destroyed by Hurricane Rita. Pioneer plans to abandon the East Cameron 322 field because the pre-hurricane production of approximately 600 BOEPD and future production profile do not justify the cost of replacing the platform. Devils Tower production is in the process of being restarted, and production is expected to return to pre-hurricane levels of approximately 5,000 net BOEPD shortly after start up. The subsea wells at the Triton and Goldfinger satellite fields have been tied back to the Devils Tower platform and are ready to flow. Further increases in production from these subsea wells and Devils Tower well recompletions will occur over the next few months as additional repairs are completed on Chevron's Empire Terminal. Pioneer's remaining operations in the Gulf of Mexico experienced limited disruptions from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Deepwater facilities at Falcon, Canyon Express and Devils Tower had little to no damage. By October 1, 2005, Falcon and Canyon Express were fully operational and producing at pre-hurricane levels. In the Raton Basin, production is increasing as a result of a pipeline expansion that was completed in October. Pioneer drilled 36 Raton wells during October, 234 wells year-to-date, and expects production growth from the field of 5% to 7% during 2005. In Canada, Pioneer has drilled 90 wells of a 180 well program in the Horseshoe Canyon coal bed methane play and expects to complete the balance of the program by the end of the year. An additional 180 well program is planned for 2006. In South Africa, Pioneer and PetroSA have signed a Memorandum of Understanding finalizing the terms for jointly developing South Coast gas fields to provide feedstock for PetroSA's onshore gas-to-liquids plant at Mossel Bay. Pioneer holds a 45% interest in the gas development project and expects to initiate production from the project during the first half of 2007. In October, the Company announced a discovery on its Clipper prospect in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. This discovery will be included in Pioneer's deepwater Gulf of Mexico divestment program. Data rooms related to this divestment and the Tierra del Fuego properties in Argentina have been opened. Randall & Dewey is advising Pioneer on the Gulf of Mexico sale, and Scotia Waterous/Toronto Dominion is supporting the Argentine sale. The bids related to both divestiture packages are due in December. Financial Outlook The following statements are estimates based on current expectations. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the following statements. The last paragraph of this release addresses certain of the risks and uncertainties to which the Company is subject. Fourth quarter 2005 production is expected to average 160,000 to 175,000 BOEPD. Fourth quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes) are expected to average $7.25 to $7.75 per BOE based on current NYMEX strip prices
for oil and gas. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $8.75 to $9.25 per BOE. Total exploration and abandonment expense is expected to be $30 million to $70 million and includes plans to drill wells in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico shelf, Argentina, Nigeria and Tunisia as well as the acquisition of additional 3-D seismic. General and administrative expense is expected to be $31 million to $33 million. Interest expense is expected to be $31 million to $34 million, and accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be $2 million to $3 million. The Company's fourth quarter effective income tax rate is expected to range from 34% to 37% based on current capital spending plans. Cash income taxes are expected to range from $10 million to $20 million, principally related to Argentine, Canadian and Tunisian income taxes and nominal alternative minimum tax in the U.S. The Company continues to benefit from the carryforward of net operating losses and other positive tax attributes in the U.S. The Company's financial results and oil and gas hedges are outlined on the attached schedules. Earnings Conference Call This morning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern, Pioneer will discuss its third quarter financial and operating results with an accompanying presentation. The call will be webcast on Pioneer's website, www.pioneernrc.com. At the website, select 'INVESTOR' at the top of the page. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available shortly after the call. Or you may choose to dial (800) 967-7134 (confirmation code: 1274638) to listen to the call by telephone and view the accompanying visual presentation at the website above. A telephone replay will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112 (confirmation code: 1274638). Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company, headquartered in Dallas, with operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada and Africa. For more information, visit Pioneer's website at www.pioneernrc.com. Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this News Release are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward- looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause Pioneer's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof, other government regulation or action, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, availability of drilling equipment, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneer's 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except for per share data) (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in thousands) (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUMMARY PRODUCTION AND PRICE DATA (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (in thousands) (Unaudited) EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow ("DCF") (as defined below) are presented herein, and reconciled to the generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measures of net income and net cash provided by operating activities because of their wide acceptance by the investment community as financial indicators of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur debt. The Company also views the non-GAAP measures of EBITDAX and DCF as useful tools for comparisons of the Company's financial indicators with those of peer companies that follow the full cost method of accounting. EBITDAX and DCF should not be considered as alternatives to net income or net cash provided by operating activities, as defined by GAAP.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION As of November 2, 2005 Open Commodity Hedge Positions Amortization of Volumetric Production Payment Proceeds and Net Derivative Losses (in thousands)


