FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20050504154556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 3, 2005 Pioneer Natural Resources Company ------------------------------------------------------ (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-13245 75-2702753 - ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 900, Irving, Texas 75039 - ------------------------------------------------ ---------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (972) 444-9001 ---------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not applicable ------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: | | Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) | | Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition........... 3 Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits.......................................... 3 Signature........................................................... 4 Exhibit Index....................................................... 5 2
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition The information in this document includes forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, government regulation or action, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the Company's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are available from the Company or the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. On May 3, 2005, the Company issued a news release with financial statements and schedules that are attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. In the news release, the Company announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, provided an operations update and provided the Company's second quarter 2005 financial outlook based on current expectations. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits 99.1 News Release and Schedules Attached to News Release dated May 3, 2005. 3
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY S I G N A T U R E Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Date: May 4, 2005 By: /s/ Darin G. Holderness -------------------------------------------- Darin G. Holderness Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 4
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1(a) News Release and Schedules Attached to News Release dated May 3, 2005. - ------------- (a) filed herewith 5

EXHIBIT 99.1 NEWS RELEASE Company Contacts: Investors: Frank Hopkins or Chris Paulsen Media and Public Affairs: Susan Spratlen (972) 444-9001 Pioneer Reports First Quarter 2005 Results Dallas, Texas, May 3, 2005 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company (NYSE:PXD) today announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Pioneer reported net income of $84.7 million, or $.58 per diluted share. This reflects a per share increase of 16% as compared to the same period last year in which Pioneer reported net income of $60.2 million, or $.50 per diluted share. Cash flow from operations for the first quarter was $334.9 million, an increase of 32% compared to $253.6 million for the same period in 2004. Long-term debt declined by $554.0 million during the quarter, ending the period at $1.83 billion. During the quarter, Pioneer sold two volumetric production payments (VPP) for total proceeds of approximately $593 million and repurchased 3.7 million shares for a total investment of $151.9 million. During April, the Company sold a third VPP for proceeds of approximately $300 million, sold certain U.S. assets for proceeds of approximately $25 million and announced the pending sale of non-strategic assets in Canada for expected proceeds of approximately $207 million. Scott Sheffield, Chairman and CEO, stated, "To take advantage of high oil and gas prices, we've sold 38 million barrels of oil equivalent reserves through a combination of VPP transactions and assets sales in Canada and the U.S. for net proceeds anticipated to exceed $1.1 billion. Opportunities to change a company's financial landscape so dramatically, by selling less than 4% of its assets, don't come along very often. While we're extremely pleased to have improved our balance sheet and substantially enhanced our financial flexibility, we will be cautious as we make investments in the current environment of high commodity prices and rising costs to ensure attractive returns on capital employed." First quarter oil and gas sales averaged 188,524 barrels oil equivalent per day (BOEPD). First quarter oil sales averaged 49,111 barrels per day (BPD) and natural gas liquids sales averaged 19,716 BPD. Gas sales in the first quarter averaged 718 million cubic feet per day (MMcfpd). First quarter realized prices for oil and natural gas liquids were $33.27 and $26.88 per barrel, respectively. The realized price for gas was $5.04 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf), including $.17 per Mcf associated with VPP deferred revenue amortization, while North American realized gas prices averaged $5.96 per Mcf, including $.20 per Mcf associated with VPP deferred revenue amortization. Pioneer also recognized pretax income of $24.8 million associated with business interruption insurance for downtime at Devils Tower and Canyon Express as a result of damage caused by Hurricane Ivan. First quarter production costs averaged $6.72 per barrel of oil equivalent (BOE). Production costs increased as compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to an increase in ad valorem taxes, additional workover activities performed during Canada's winter access only season, higher field operating costs and the retention of operating costs related to the VPP volumes sold. Exploration and abandonment costs were $67.4 million for the quarter and included $28.3 million of dry hole and abandonments associated with unsuccessful wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Canada, Nigeria and Tunisia, $37.8 million of geologic and geophysical expenses including seismic costs and $1.3 million of delay rentals and unproved acreage abandonments. General and administrative costs for the quarter were $29.6 million, including annual incentive-based performance payments. For the same quarter last year, Pioneer reported total oil and gas sales of 182,050 BOEPD, including oil sales of 47,733 BPD, natural gas liquids sales of 23,406 BPD and gas sales of 665 MMcfpd (excluding field fuel volumes). Realized
prices for the 2004 first quarter were $28.31 per barrel for oil, $22.21 per barrel for natural gas liquids and $4.38 per Mcf for gas, while North American gas prices averaged $5.04 per Mcf. Operations Update During the quarter, Pioneer accelerated its onshore drilling activities in each of its core areas to accomplish its more aggressive development plans for 2005. Currently, Pioneer has 17 onshore rigs running in the U.S. and ten rigs running in Argentina. In Canada, the Company recently completed its largest-ever winter drilling campaign, drilling 56 wells. During Canada's summer drilling season, Pioneer plans to drill up to 100 wells to assess the potential of its extensive Horseshoe Canyon coalbed acreage position. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, production from the Devils Tower A-5 well was initiated in mid-April and the seventh of eight Devils Tower development wells is currently being completed. Production was also initiated from the Adam 3 development well in Tunisia at a gross rate of approximately 3,000 BPD. The Company continues to expand its offshore exploration program in West Africa. Pioneer was awarded acreage in Nigeria Block 320 and is awaiting government approval on Nigeria Block 256 and the potential award of two blocks in the Joint Development Zone between Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Pioneer was the apparent high bidder on 13 blocks focused principally in the Mississippi Canyon area where the Company has three producing fields and is currently participating in appraisal drilling on a fourth discovery. Pioneer has participated in seven key exploration wells this year and expensed three dry holes drilled during the quarter in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Nigeria and Tunisia. The Company participated in four wells (two in Alaska, the Thunder Hawk well in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the Nour-1 well in Tunisia) for which results will be announced after further testing and evaluation have been completed. Financial Outlook The following statements are estimates based on current expectations. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which may cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the following statements. The last paragraph of this release addresses certain of the risks and uncertainties to which the Company is subject. Second quarter 2005 production is expected to average 185,000 to 205,000 BOEPD, including a full quarter of production from Canyon Express, continued ramp up of production from Devils Tower, typical variability in the timing of oil cargo shipments in South Africa and Tunisia and the impact of a full quarter of VPP volumes sold. Second quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes) are expected to average $6.25 to $6.75 per BOE based on current NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $9.10 to $9.60 per BOE. Total exploration and abandonment expense is expected to be $50 million to $70 million and includes carryover costs associated with unsuccessful wells that were in progress at the end of the first quarter, plans to drill two deepwater Gulf of Mexico exploration wells and the acquisition of additional seismic data. General and administrative expense is expected to be $27 million to $29 million. Interest expense is expected to be $29 million to $32 million, and accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be $2 million to $3 million. The Company's second quarter effective income tax rate is expected to range from 36% to 39% based on current capital spending plans, including cash income taxes of $5 million to $10 million that are principally related to Argentine and Tunisian income taxes and nominal alternative minimum tax in the U.S. Other than in Argentina and Tunisia, the Company continues to benefit from the carryforward of net operating losses and other positive tax attributes. The Company's financial results and oil and gas hedges are outlined on the attached schedules.
Earnings Conference Call This morning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern, Pioneer will discuss its first quarter financial and operating results with an accompanying presentation. The call will be webcast on Pioneer's website, www.pioneernrc.com. At the website, select 'INVESTOR' at the top of the page. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available shortly after the call. Or you may choose to dial (888) 569-5033 (confirmation code: 6264844) to listen to the call by telephone and view the accompanying visual presentation at the website above. A telephone replay will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112 (confirmation code: 6264844). Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Africa and Tunisia. Pioneer's headquarters are in Dallas. For more information, visit Pioneer's website at www.pioneernrc.com. Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this News Release are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward- looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneer's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of oil and gas prices, product supply and demand, competition, government regulation or action, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans, or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneer's 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except for per share data) (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in thousands) (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUMMARY PRODUCTION AND PRICE DATA (Unaudited)
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (in thousands) (Unaudited) EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow ("DCF") (as defined below) are presented herein, and reconciled to the generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measures of net income and net cash provided by operating activities because of their wide acceptance by the investment community as financial indicators of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur debt. The Company also views the non- GAAP measures of EBITDAX and DCF as useful tools for comparisons of the Company's financial indicators with those of peer companies that follow the full cost method of accounting. EBITDAX and DCF should not be considered as alternatives to net income or net cash provided by operating activities, as defined by GAAP.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION As of May 2, 2005 Open Commodity Hedge Positions ------------------------------ Amortization of Volumetric Production Payment Proceeds and Derivative Losses ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- (in thousands)


