FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20060509102859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 3, 2006 PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY ------------------------------------------------------ (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-13245 75-2702753 ------------------------------ ------------ ----------------- (State or other (Commission (I.R.S. Employer jurisdiction of incorporation) File Number) Identification Number) 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd 75039 Suite 900 ---------- Irving, Texas (Zip Code) --------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 444-9001 Not applicable ------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") held on May 3, 2006, the Company's stockholders approved the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan was adopted by the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Company's Board of Directors on February 14, 2006, subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders, and became effective with such stockholder approval on May 3, 2006. The Plan provides for the grant of stock options (both nonstatutory and incentive stock options), restricted stock awards, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and executive officers) and consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of the Company. An aggregate of 4,600,000 shares of the Company's common stock have been reserved and are available for issuance under the Plan on a discretionary basis, subject to limitations set forth in the Plan. No Award may be granted under the Plan on or after May 3, 2016. A more complete description of the terms of the Plan can be found in "Item Three - Adoption of the 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan" (pages 10 through 17) in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 3, 2006, which description is incorporated by reference herein. The foregoing description of the Plan and the description incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference. Awards of Restricted Stock Units to Non-Employee Directors On May 3, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the award of restricted stock units to the Company's non-employee directors, in accordance with the previously approved compensation plan for the 2006-2007 director year. Each non-employee director received an annual equity award of restricted stock units. Additionally, four of the Company's non-employee directors elected to receive their annual fees in restricted stock units. The restricted stock unit awards were made pursuant to the form of Award Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2, which is incorporated herein by reference. Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers On May 4, 2006, the Company issued a news release that is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. In the news release, the Company announced that Jerry P. Jones has retired from its Board of Directors, effective May 3, 2006, in accordance with the mandatory retirement age provisions of the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws and its Governance Principles.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits (d) Exhibits 10.1 - Pioneer Natural Resources Company 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. 10.2 - Form of restricted stock unit Award Agreement for non- employee directors, together with a schedule identifying substantially identical agreements between the Company and each of its non-employee directors identified on the schedule and identifying the material differences between each of those agreements and the filed Award Agreement. 99.1 - News Release dated May 4, 2006.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY /s/ Darin G. Holderness ----------------------------------------- Darin G. Holderness Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: May 8, 2006
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Exhibit Title ------- ------------- 10.1 - Pioneer Natural Resources Company 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. 10.2 - Form of restricted stock unit Award Agreement for non- employee Directors, together with a schedule identifying substantially identical agreements between the Company and each of its non-employee directors identified on the schedule and identifying the material differences between each of those agreements and the filed Award Agreement. 99.1 - News Release dated May 4, 2006.

EXHIBIT 10.1 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 2006 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Purpose.............................................................. 1 2. Definitions...........................................................1 3. Administration........................................................5 (a) Authority of the Committee...................................5 (b) Manner of Exercise of Committee Authority....................6 (c) Limitation of Liability......................................6 4. Stock Subject to Plan.................................................7 (a) Overall Number of Shares Available for Delivery..............7 (b) Application of Limitation to Grants of Awards................7 (c) Availability of Shares Not Issued under Awards...............7 (d) Stock Offered................................................7 5. Eligibility; Per Person Award Limitations.............................8 6. Specific Terms of Awards..............................................8 (a) General......................................................8 (b) Options......................................................8 (c) Stock Appreciation Rights....................................9 (d) Restricted Stock............................................10 (e) Restricted Stock Units......................................11 (f) Bonus Stock and Awards in Lieu of Obligations...............12 (g) Dividend Equivalents........................................12 (h) Other Stock-Based Awards....................................12 7. Certain Provisions Applicable to Awards..............................12 (a) Termination of Employment...................................12 (b) Stand-Alone, Additional, Tandem, and Substitute Awards......13 (c) Term of Awards..............................................13 (d) Form and Timing of Payment under Awards; Deferrals..........13 (e) Exemptions from Section 16(b) Liability.....................13 (f) Non-Competition Agreement...................................14 8. Performance and Annual Incentive Awards..............................14 (a) Performance Conditions......................................14 (b) Performance Awards Granted to Designated Covered Employees...................................................14 (c) Annual Incentive Awards Granted to Designated Covered Employees...........................................16 (d) Written Determinations......................................17 (e) Status of Section 8(b) and Section 8(c) Awards under Section 162(m) of the Code..................................17 9. Recapitalization or Reorganization; Change in Control................17 (a) Existence of Plans and Awards...............................17 (b) Subdivision or Consolidation of Shares......................17 (c) Corporate Recapitalization..................................18 i
(d) Additional Issuances........................................19 (e) Change in Control...........................................19 (f) Change in Control Price.....................................20 10. General Provisions...................................................22 (a) Transferability.............................................22 (b) Taxes.......................................................23 (c) Changes to this Plan and Awards.............................23 (d) Limitation on Rights Conferred under Plan...................24 (e) Unfunded Status of Awards...................................24 (f) Nonexclusivity of this Plan.................................24 (g) Severability................................................24 (h) Governing Law...............................................24 (i) Conditions to Delivery of Stock.............................25 -ii-
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan 1. Purpose. The purpose of the Pioneer Natural Resources Company 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to provide a means through which Pioneer Natural Resources Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and its Subsidiaries may attract and retain able persons as employees, directors and consultants of the Company and to provide a means whereby those persons upon whom the responsibilities of the successful administration and management of the Company rest, and whose present and potential contributions to the welfare of the Company are of importance, can acquire and maintain stock ownership, or awards the value of which is tied to the performance of the Company, thereby strengthening their concern for the welfare of the Company and their desire to remain in its devoted employ. A further purpose of this Plan is to provide such employees and directors with additional incentive and reward opportunities designed to enhance the profitable growth of the Company. Accordingly, this Plan primarily provides for the granting of Incentive Stock Options, options which do not constitute Incentive Stock Options, Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights or any combination of the foregoing, as is best suited to the circumstances of the particular individual as provided herein. 2. Definitions. For purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below, in addition to such terms defined in Section 1 hereof: (a) "Annual Incentive Award" means a conditional right granted to a Participant under Section 8(c) hereof to receive a cash payment, Stock or other Award, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, after the end of a specified year. (b) "Award" means any Option, SAR (including Limited SAR), Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit, Dividend Equivalent, Other Stock-Based Award, Performance Award or Annual Incentive Award, together with any other right or interest granted to a Participant under this Plan. (c) "Beneficiary" means one or more persons, trusts or other entities which have been designated by a Participant in his or her most recent written beneficiary designation filed with the Committee to receive the benefits specified under this Plan upon such Participant's death or to which Awards or other rights are transferred if and to the extent permitted under Section 10(a) hereof. If, upon a Participant's death, there is no designated Beneficiary or surviving designated Beneficiary, then the term Beneficiary means the persons, trusts or other entities entitled by will or the laws of descent and distribution to receive such benefits. (d) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act and any successor to such Rule. (e) "Board" means the Company's Board of Directors.
(f) "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the state of Texas are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. (g) "Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 40% or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of Stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Stock") or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (D) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (iii) below; or (ii) A majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members constituting the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election; or (iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or an acquisition of assets of another corporation (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or the corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 40% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership results solely from ownership of the Company that existed prior to the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or -2-
(iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. (h) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, including regulations thereunder and successor provisions and regulations thereto. (i) "Committee" means a committee of two or more directors designated by the Board to administer this Plan; provided, however, that, unless otherwise determined by the Board, the Committee shall consist solely of two or more directors, each of whom shall be (i) a "nonemployee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, and (ii) an "outside director" as defined under section 162(m) of the Code, unless administration of this Plan by "outside directors" is not then required in order to qualify for tax deductibility under section 162(m) of the Code. (j) "Covered Employee" means an Eligible Person who is a Covered Employee as specified in Section 8(e) of this Plan. (k) "Dividend Equivalent" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 6(g), to receive cash, Stock, other Awards or other property equal in value to dividends paid with respect to a specified number of shares of Stock, or other periodic payments. (l) "Effective Date" means May 3, 2006. (m) "Eligible Person" means all officers and employees of the Company or of any Subsidiary, and other persons who provide services to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including directors of the Company. An employee on leave of absence may be considered as still in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary for purposes of eligibility for participation in this Plan. (n) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, including rules thereunder and successor provisions and rules thereto. (o) "Executive Officer" means an executive officer of the Company as defined under the Exchange Act. (p) "Fair Market Value" means, for a particular day the value equal to the closing price of a share of Stock on the most recent date on which shares of Stock were publicly traded preceding the date with respect to which the Fair Market Valuation determination is made. In the event shares of Stock are not publicly traded at the time a determination of their value is required to be made hereunder, the determination of their Fair Market Value shall be made by the Committee in such manner it deems appropriate. (q) "Incentive Stock Option" or "ISO" means any Option intended to be and designated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto. (r) "Incumbent Board" shall mean individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board and any other individual who becomes a director of the Company after that date and whose election or appointment by the Board or -3-
nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. (s) "Non-Surviving Event" means an event of Restructure as described in either subsection (ii) or (iii) of Section 1(bb). (t) "Option" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 6(b) hereof, to purchase Stock or other Awards at a specified price during specified time periods. (u) "Other Stock-Based Awards" means Awards granted to a Participant under Section 6(i) hereof. (v) "Participant" means a person who has been granted an Award under this Plan which remains outstanding, including a person who is no longer an Eligible Person. (w) "Performance Unit" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 8 hereof, to receive Awards based upon performance criteria specified by the Committee. (x) "Person" means any person or entity of any nature whatsoever, specifically including an individual, a firm, a company, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability company, a trust or other entity; a Person, together with that Person's Affiliates and Associates (as those terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act), and any Persons acting as a partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, association, syndicate or other group (whether or not formally organized), or otherwise acting jointly or in concert or in a coordinated or consciously parallel manner (whether or not pursuant to any express agreement), for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of securities of the Company with such Person, shall be deemed a single "Person." (y) "Qualified Member" means a member of the Committee who is a "nonemployee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) and an "outside director" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.162-27 under section 162(m) of the Code. (z) "Restricted Stock" means Stock granted to a Participant under Section 6(d) hereof, that is subject to certain restrictions and to a risk of forfeiture. (aa) "Restricted Stock Unit" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 6(e) hereof, to receive Stock, cash or a combination thereof at the end of a specified deferral period. (bb) "Restructure" means the occurrence of any one or more of the following: (i) The merger or consolidation of the Company with any Person, whether effected as a single transaction or a series of related transactions, with the Company remaining the continuing or surviving entity of that merger or consolidation and the Stock remaining outstanding and not changed into or exchanged for stock or other securities of any other Person or of the Company, cash, or other property; -4-
(ii) The merger or consolidation of the Company with any Person, whether effected as a single transaction or a series of related transactions, with (A) the Company not being the continuing or surviving entity of that merger or consolidation or (B) the Company remaining the continuing or surviving entity of that merger or consolidation but all or a part of the outstanding shares of Stock are changed into or exchanged for stock or other securities of any other Person or the Company, cash, or other property; or (iii) The transfer, directly or indirectly, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (whether by sale, merger, consolidation, liquidation or otherwise) to any Person whether effected as a single transaction or a series of related transactions. (cc) "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3, promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 16 of the Exchange Act, as from time to time in effect and applicable to this Plan and Participants. (dd) "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any successor law, as it may be amended from time to time. (ee) "Stock" means the Company's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, and such other securities as may be substituted (or resubstituted) for Stock pursuant to Section 9. (ff) "Stock Appreciation Rights" or "SAR" means a right granted to a Participant under Section 6(c) hereof. (gg) "Subsidiary" means with respect to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the voting power of the voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by that Person. 3. Administration. (a) Authority of the Committee. This Plan shall be administered by the Committee except to the extent the Board elects to administer this Plan, in which case references herein to the "Committee" shall be deemed to include references to the "Board." Subject to the express provisions of the Plan and Rule 16b-3, the Committee shall have the authority, in its sole and absolute discretion, to (i) adopt, amend, and rescind administrative and interpretive rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (ii) determine the Eligible Persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards shall be granted; (iii) determine the amount of cash and the number of shares of Stock, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Units or Restricted Stock Awards, or any combination thereof, that shall be the subject of each Award; (iv) determine the terms and provisions of each Award agreement (which need not be identical), including provisions defining or otherwise relating to (A) the term and the period or periods and extent of exercisability of the Options, (B) the extent to which the transferability of shares of Stock issued or transferred pursuant to any Award is restricted, (C) except as otherwise provided herein, the effect of termination of employment of a Participant on the Award, and (D) the effect of approved leaves of absence (consistent with any applicable regulations of the Internal Revenue Service); (v) accelerate the time of exercisability of any Award that has been granted; (vi) construe the respective Award agreements and the Plan; (vii) make determinations of the Fair Market Value of the Stock -5-
pursuant to the Plan; (viii) delegate its duties under the Plan to such agents as it may appoint from time to time, provided that the Committee may not delegate its duties with respect to making Awards to, or otherwise with respect to Awards granted to, Eligible Persons who are subject to section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or section 162(m) of the Code; (ix) terminate, modify or amend the Plan; and (x) make all other determinations, perform all other acts, and exercise all other powers and authority necessary or advisable for administering the Plan, including the delegation of those ministerial acts and responsibilities as the Committee deems appropriate. Subject to Rule 16b-3 and section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan, in any Award, or in any Award agreement in the manner and to the extent it deems necessary or desirable to carry the Plan into effect, and the Committee shall be the sole and final judge of that necessity or desirability. The determinations of the Committee on the matters referred to in this Section 3(a) shall be final and conclusive. (b) Manner of Exercise of Committee Authority. At any time that a member of the Committee is not a Qualified Member, any action of the Committee relating to an Award granted or to be granted to a Participant who is then subject to section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of the Company, or relating to an Award intended by the Committee to qualify as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder, may be taken either (i) by a subcommittee, designated by the Committee, composed solely of two or more Qualified Members, or (ii) by the Committee but with each such member who is not a Qualified Member abstaining or recusing himself or herself from such action; provided, however, that, upon such abstention or recusal, the Committee remains composed solely of two or more Qualified Members. Such action, authorized by such a subcommittee or by the Committee upon the abstention or recusal of such non-Qualified Member(s), shall be the action of the Committee for purposes of this Plan. Any action of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its Subsidiaries, stockholders, Participants, Beneficiaries, and transferees under Section 10(a) hereof or other persons claiming rights from or through a Participant. The express grant of any specific power to the Committee, and the taking of any action by the Committee, shall not be construed as limiting any power or authority of the Committee. The Committee may delegate to officers or managers of the Company or any Subsidiary, or committees thereof, the authority, subject to such terms as the Committee shall determine, to perform such functions, including administrative functions, as the Committee may determine, to the extent that such delegation will not result in the loss of an exemption under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) for Awards granted to Participants subject to section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of the Company and will not cause Awards intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under section 162(m) of the Code to fail to so qualify. The Committee may appoint agents to assist it in administering this Plan. (c) Limitation of Liability. The Committee and each member thereof shall be entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to him or her by any officer or employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, the Company's legal counsel, independent auditors, consultants or any other agents assisting in the administration of this Plan. Members of the Committee and any officer or employee of the Company or a Subsidiary acting at the direction or on behalf of the Committee shall not be personally liable for any action or determination taken or made in good faith with respect to this -6-
Plan, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be indemnified and held harmless by the Company with respect to any such action or determination. 4. Stock Subject to Plan. (a) Overall Number of Shares Available for Delivery. Subject to adjustment in a manner consistent with any adjustment made pursuant to Section 9, the total number of shares of Stock reserved and available for delivery in connection with Awards under this Plan shall not exceed 4,600,000 shares and the total number of shares of Stock received and available for delivery in connection with ISOs under this Plan shall not exceed 4,600,000 shares. No Award may be granted under the Plan on or after the 10 year anniversary of the Effective Date. (b) Application of Limitation to Grants of Awards. No Award may be granted if the number of shares of Stock to be delivered in connection with such Award exceeds the number of shares of Stock remaining available under this Plan minus the number of shares of Stock issuable in settlement of or relating to then-outstanding Awards. The Committee may adopt reasonable counting procedures to ensure appropriate counting, avoid double counting (as, for example, in the case of tandem or substitute awards) and make adjustments if the number of shares of Stock actually delivered differs from the number of shares previously counted in connection with an Award. (c) Availability of Shares Not Issued under Awards. Shares of Stock subject to an Award under this Plan that expire or are canceled, forfeited, settled in cash or otherwise terminated without an issuance of shares to the Participant, including (i) the number of shares withheld in payment of any exercise or purchase price of an Award or taxes relating to Awards, and (ii) the number of shares surrendered in payment of any exercise or purchase price of an Award or taxes relating to any Award, will again be available for Awards under this Plan, except that if any such shares could not again be available for Awards to a particular Participant under any applicable law or regulation, such shares shall be available exclusively for Awards to Participants who are not subject to such limitation. (d) Stock Offered. The shares to be delivered under the Plan shall be made available from (i) authorized but unissued shares of Stock, (ii) Stock held in the treasury of the Company, or (iii) previously issued shares of Stock reacquired by the Company, including shares purchased on the open market. -7-
5. Eligibility; Per Person Award Limitations. Awards may be granted under this Plan only to Persons who are Eligible Persons at the time of grant thereof or in connection with the severance or retirement of Eligible Individuals. In each fiscal year or 12-month period, as applicable, during any part of which this Plan is in effect, a Covered Employee may not be granted (a) Awards (other than Awards designated to be paid only in cash) relating to more than 250,000 shares of Stock, subject to adjustment in a manner consistent with any adjustment made pursuant to Section 9 and (b) Awards designated to be paid only in cash having a value determined on the date of grant in excess of $4,000,000. 6. Specific Terms of Awards. (a) General. Awards may be granted on the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6. In addition, the Committee may impose on any Award or the exercise thereof, at the date of grant or thereafter (subject to Section 10(c)), such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan, as the Committee shall determine, including terms requiring forfeiture of Awards in the event of termination of employment by the Participant and terms permitting a Participant to make elections relating to his or her Award. The Committee shall retain full power and discretion to accelerate, waive or modify, at any time, any term or condition of an Award that is not mandatory under this Plan; provided, however, that the Committee shall not have any discretion to accelerate, waive or modify any term or condition of an Award that is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of section 162(m) of the Code if such discretion would cause the Award to not so qualify. (b) Options. The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions: (i) Exercise Price. Each Option agreement shall state the exercise price per share of Stock (the "Exercise Price"); provided, however, that the Exercise Price per share of Stock subject to an ISO shall not be less than the greater of (A) the par value per share of the Stock or (B) 100% of the Fair Market Value per share of the Stock as of the date of grant of the Option (or in the case of an individual who owns stock possessing more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation or its parent or any Subsidiary 110% of the Fair Market Value per share of the Stock on the date of grant). The exercise price per share of Stock subject to an Option other than an Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than the greater of (1) the par value per share of the Stock and (2) 100% of the Fair Market Value per share of the stock as of the date of grant of the Option. (ii) Time and Method of Exercise. The Committee shall determine the time or times at which or the circumstances under which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), the methods by which such exercise price may be paid or deemed to be paid, the form of such payment, including without limitation cash, Stock, other Awards or awards granted under other plans of the Company or any Subsidiary, or other property (including notes or other contractual obligations of Participants to make payment on a deferred basis), and the methods by or forms in which Stock will be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants, including, but not limited to, the delivery of -8-
Restricted Stock subject to Section 6(d). In the case of an exercise whereby the Exercise Price is paid with Stock, such Stock shall be valued as of the date of exercise. (iii) ISOs. The terms of any ISO granted under this Plan shall comply in all respects with the provisions of section 422 of the Code. Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no term of this Plan relating to ISOs (including any SAR in tandem therewith) shall be interpreted, amended or altered, nor shall any discretion or authority granted under this Plan be exercised, so as to disqualify either this Plan or any ISO under section 422 of the Code, unless the Participant has first requested the change that will result in such disqualification. ISOs shall not be granted more than ten years after the earlier of the adoption of this Plan or the approval of this Plan by the Company's stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock subject to an ISO and the aggregate Fair Market Value of shares of stock of any parent or Subsidiary corporation (within the meaning of sections 424(e) and (f) of the Code) subject to any other incentive stock option (within the meaning of section 422 of the Code)) of the Company or a parent or Subsidiary corporation (within the meaning of sections 424(e) and (f) of the Code) that first becomes purchasable by a Participant in any calendar year may not (with respect to that Participant) exceed $100,000, or such other amount as may be prescribed under section 422 of the Code or applicable regulations or rulings from time to time. As used in the previous sentence, Fair Market Value shall be determined as of the date the incentive stock options is granted. Failure to comply with this provision shall not impair the enforceability or exercisability of any Option, but shall cause the excess amount of shares to be reclassified in accordance with the Code. (c) Stock Appreciation Rights. The Committee is authorized to grant SARs to Participants on the following terms and conditions: (i) Right to Payment. An SAR shall confer on the Participant to whom it is granted a right to receive, upon exercise thereof, the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of exercise over (B) the grant price of the SAR as determined by the Committee. (ii) Rights Related to Options. A Stock Appreciation Right granted pursuant to an Option shall entitle a Participant, upon exercise, to surrender that Option or any portion thereof, to the extent unexercised, and to receive payment of an amount computed pursuant to Subsection 6(c)(ii)(B). That Option shall then cease to be exercisable to the extent surrendered. Stock Appreciation Rights granted in connection with an Option shall be subject to the terms of the Award agreement governing the Option, which shall comply with the following provisions in addition to those applicable to Options: (A) A Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Option shall be exercisable only at such time or times and only to the extent that the related Option is exercisable and shall not be transferable except to the extent that the related Option is transferable. (B) Upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right related to an Option, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company of an amount determined by multiplying: -9-
(1) the difference obtained by subtracting the exercise price of a share of Stock specified in the related Option from the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right, by (2) the number of shares as to which that Stock Appreciation Right has been exercised. (iii) Right Without Option. A Stock Appreciation Right granted independent of an Option shall be exercisable as determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award agreement governing the Stock Appreciation Right, which Award agreement shall comply with the following provisions: (A) Each Award agreement shall state the total number of shares of Stock to which the Stock Appreciation Right relates. (B) Each Award agreement shall state the time or periods in which the right to exercise the Stock Appreciation Right or a portion thereof shall vest and the number of shares of Stock for which the right to exercise the Stock Appreciation Right shall vest at each such time or period. (C) Each Award agreement shall state the date at which the Stock Appreciation Rights shall expire if not previously exercised. (D) Each Stock Appreciation Right shall entitle a participant, upon exercise thereof, to receive payment of an amount determined by multiplying: (1) the difference obtained by subtracting the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right from the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of that Stock Appreciation Right, by (2) the number of shares as to which the Stock Appreciation Right has been exercised. (iv) Terms. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Committee shall determine at the date of grant or thereafter, the time or times at which and the circumstances under which an SAR may be exercised in whole or in part (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), the method of exercise, method of settlement, form of consideration payable in settlement, method by or forms in which Stock will be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants, whether or not an SAR shall be in tandem or in combination with any other Award, and any other terms and conditions of any SAR. SARs may be either freestanding or in tandem with other Awards. (d) Restricted Stock. The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock to Participants on the following terms and conditions: -10-
(i) Grant and Restrictions. Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability, risk of forfeiture and other restrictions, if any, as the Committee may impose, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), in such installments or otherwise, as the Committee may determine at the date of grant or thereafter. During the restricted period applicable to the Restricted Stock, the Restricted Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, margined or otherwise encumbered by the Participant. (ii) Certificates for Stock. Restricted Stock granted under this Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine. If certificates representing Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, the Committee may require that such certificates bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, that the Company retain physical possession of the certificates, and that the Participant deliver a stock power to the Company, endorsed in blank, relating to the Restricted Stock. (iii) Dividends and Splits. As a condition to the grant of an Award of Restricted Stock, the Committee may require or permit a Participant to elect that any cash dividends paid on a share of Restricted Stock be automatically reinvested in additional shares of Restricted Stock or applied to the purchase of additional Awards under this Plan. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Stock distributed in connection with a Stock split or Stock dividend, and other property distributed as a dividend, shall be subject to restrictions and a risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock with respect to which such Stock or other property has been distributed. (e) Restricted Stock Units. The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock Units to Participants, which are rights to receive Stock at the end of a specified deferral period, subject to the following terms and conditions: (i) Award and Restrictions. Settlement of an Award of Restricted Stock Units shall occur upon expiration of the deferral period specified for such Restricted Stock Unit by the Committee (or, if permitted by the Committee, as elected by the Participant). In addition, Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions (which may include a risk of forfeiture) as the Committee may impose, if any, which restrictions may lapse at the expiration of the deferral period or at earlier specified times (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), separately or in combination, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may determine. Restricted Stock Units shall be satisfied by the delivery of cash or Stock in the amount equal to the Fair Market Value of the specified number of shares of Stock covered by the Restricted Stock Units, or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee at the date of grant or thereafter. (ii) Dividend Equivalents. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at date of grant, Dividend Equivalents on the specified number of shares of Stock covered by an Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be either (A) paid with respect to such Restricted Stock Units on the dividend payment date in cash or in shares of unrestricted Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such dividends, or (B) deferred with respect to such Restricted -11-
Stock Units and the amount or value thereof automatically deemed reinvested in additional Restricted Stock Units, other Awards or other investment vehicles, as the Committee shall determine or permit the Participant to elect. (f) Bonus Stock and Awards in Lieu of Obligations. The Committee is authorized to grant Stock as a bonus, or to grant Stock or other Awards in lieu of obligations to pay cash or deliver other property under this Plan or under other plans or compensatory arrangements, provided that, in the case of Participants subject to section 16 of the Exchange Act, the amount of such grants remains within the discretion of the Committee to the extent necessary to ensure that acquisitions of Stock or other Awards are exempt from liability under section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Stock or Awards granted hereunder shall be subject to such other terms as shall be determined by the Committee. In the case of any grant of Stock to an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary in lieu of salary or other cash compensation, the number of shares granted in place of such compensation shall be reasonable, as determined by the Committee. (g) Dividend Equivalents. The Committee is authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents to a Participant, entitling the Participant to receive cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property equal in value to dividends paid with respect to a specified number of shares of Stock, or other periodic payments. Dividend Equivalents may be awarded on a free-standing basis or in connection with another Award. The Committee may provide that Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or distributed when accrued or shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Stock, Awards, or other investment vehicles, and subject to such restrictions on transferability and risks of forfeiture, as the Committee may specify. (h) Other Stock-Based Awards. The Committee is authorized, subject to limitations under applicable law, to grant to Participants such other Awards that may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on, or related to, Stock, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of this Plan, including without limitation convertible or exchangeable debt securities, other rights convertible or exchangeable into Stock, purchase rights for Stock, Awards with value and payment contingent upon performance of the Company or any other factors designated by the Committee, and Awards valued by reference to the book value of Stock or the value of securities of or the performance of specified Subsidiaries. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards. Stock delivered pursuant to an Award in the nature of a purchase right granted under this Section 6(h) shall be purchased for such consideration, paid for at such times, by such methods, and in such forms, including, without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, as the Committee shall determine. Cash awards, as an element of or supplement to any other Award under this Plan, may also be granted pursuant to this Section 6(h). 7. Certain Provisions Applicable to Awards. (a) Termination of Employment. Except as provided herein, the treatment of an Award upon a termination of employment or any other service relationship by and between a Participant and any Company or Subsidiary shall be specified in the agreement controlling such Award. -12-
(b) Stand-Alone, Additional, Tandem, and Substitute Awards. Awards granted under this Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution or exchange for, any other Award or any award granted under another plan of the Company, any Subsidiary, or any business entity to be acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary, or any other right of a Participant to receive payment from the Company or any Subsidiary. Such additional, tandem and substitute or exchange Awards may be granted at any time. If an Award is granted in substitution or exchange for another Award, the Committee shall require the surrender of such other Award in consideration for the grant of the new Award. In addition, Awards may be granted in lieu of cash compensation, including in lieu of cash amounts payable under other plans of the Company or any Subsidiary, in which the value of Stock subject to the Award is equivalent in value to the cash compensation (for example, Restricted Stock Units or Restricted Stock), or in which the exercise price, grant price or purchase price of the Award in the nature of a right that may be exercised is equal to the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock minus the value of the cash compensation surrendered (for example, Options granted with an exercise price "discounted" by the amount of the cash compensation surrendered). (c) Term of Awards. The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee; provided that in no event shall the term of any Option or SAR exceed a period of ten years (or such shorter term as may be required in respect of an ISO under section 422 of the Code). (d) Form and Timing of Payment under Awards; Deferrals. Subject to the terms of this Plan and any applicable Award agreement, payments to be made by the Company or a Subsidiary upon the exercise of an Option or other Award or settlement of an Award may be made in such forms as the Committee shall determine, including without limitation cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis. Except as otherwise provided herein, the settlement of any Award may be accelerated, and cash paid in lieu of Stock in connection with such settlement, in the discretion of the Committee or upon occurrence of one or more specified events (in addition to a Change in Control). Installment or deferred payments may be required by the Committee (subject to Section 10(c) of this Plan, including the consent provisions thereof in the case of any deferral of an outstanding Award not provided for in the original Award agreement) or permitted at the election of the Participant on terms and conditions established by the Committee. Payments may include, without limitation, provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or deferred payments or the grant or crediting of Dividend Equivalents or other amounts in respect of installment or deferred payments denominated in Stock. Any deferral shall only be allowed as is provided in a separate deferred compensation plan adopted by the Company. This Plan shall not constitute an "employee benefit plan" for purposes of section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. (e) Exemptions from Section 16(b) Liability. It is the intent of the Company that the grant of any Awards to or other transaction by a Participant who is subject to section 16 of the Exchange Act shall be exempt from such section pursuant to an applicable exemption (except for transactions acknowledged in writing to be non-exempt by such Participant). Accordingly, if any provision of this Plan or any Award agreement does not comply with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 as then applicable to any such transaction, such -13-
provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 so that such Participant shall avoid liability under section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. (f) Non-Competition Agreement. Each Participant to whom an Award is granted under this Plan may be required to agree in writing as a condition to the granting of such Award not to engage in conduct in competition with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for a period after the termination of such Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries as determined by the Committee. 8. Performance and Annual Incentive Awards. (a) Performance Conditions. The right of a Participant to exercise or receive a grant or settlement of any Award, and the timing thereof, may be subject to such performance conditions as may be specified by the Committee. The Committee may use such business criteria and other measures of performance as it may deem appropriate in establishing any performance conditions, and may exercise its discretion to reduce or increase the amounts payable under any Award subject to performance conditions, except as limited under Sections 8(b) and 8(c) hereof in the case of a Performance Award or Annual Incentive Award intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Code. (b) Performance Awards Granted to Designated Covered Employees. If the Committee determines that a Performance Award to be granted to an Eligible Person who is designated by the Committee as likely to be a Covered Employee should qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of section 162(m) of the Code, the grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Performance Award may be contingent upon achievement of preestablished performance goals and other terms set forth in this Section 8(b). (i) Performance Goals Generally. The performance goals for such Performance Awards shall consist of one or more business criteria or individual performance criteria and a targeted level or levels of performance with respect to each of such criteria, as specified by the Committee consistent with this Section 8(b). Performance goals shall be objective and shall otherwise meet the requirements of section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder (including Treasury Regulation ss.1.162-27 and successor regulations thereto), including the requirement that the level or levels of performance targeted by the Committee result in the achievement of performance goals being "substantially uncertain." The Committee may determine that such Performance Awards shall be granted, exercised, and/or settled upon achievement of any one performance goal or that two or more of the performance goals must be achieved as a condition to grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Performance Awards. Performance goals may differ for Performance Awards granted to any one Participant or to different Participants. (ii) Business and Individual Performance Criteria (A) Business Criteria. One or more of the following business criteria for the Company, on a consolidated basis, and/or for specified Subsidiaries or business or geographical units of the Company (except with respect to the total stockholder return and earnings per share criteria), shall -14-
be used by the Committee in establishing performance goals for such Performance Awards: (1) earnings per share; (2) increase in revenues; (3) increase in cash flow; (4) increase in cash flow return; (5) return on net assets; (6) return on assets, return on investment; (7) return on capital; (8) return on equity; (9) economic value added; (10) operating margin; (11) contribution margin; (12) net income; (13) pretax earnings; (14) pretax earnings before interest, depreciation, amortization, exploration and abandonment costs; (15) pretax operating earnings after interest expense and before incentives, service fees, and extraordinary or special items; or operating income; (16) total stockholder return; (17) debt reduction; (18) production growth; (19) general and administrative expenses; (20) reserve replacement; (21) finding and development costs; (22) net asset value; (23) operating costs, and (24) any of the above goals determined on an absolute or relative basis or as compared to the performance of a published or special index deemed applicable by the Committee including, but not limited to, the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index or a group of comparable companies. One or more of the foregoing business criteria shall also be exclusively used in establishing performance goals for Annual Incentive Awards granted to a Covered Employee under Section 8(c) hereof. (B) Individual Performance Criteria. The grant, exercise and/or settlement of Performance Awards may also be contingent upon individual performance goals established by the Committee. If required for compliance with section 162(m) of the Code, such criteria shall be approved by the stockholders of the Company. (iii) Performance Period; Timing for Establishing Performance Goals. Achievement of performance goals in respect of such Performance Awards shall be measured over a performance period of up to ten years, as specified by the Committee. Performance goals shall be established not later than 90 days after the beginning of any performance period applicable to such Performance Awards, or at such other date as may be required or permitted for "performance-based compensation" under section 162(m) of the Code. (iv) Performance Award Pool. The Committee may establish a Performance Award pool, which shall be an unfunded pool, for purposes of measuring performance of the Company in connection with Performance Awards. The amount of such Performance Award pool shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the criteria set forth in Section 8(b)(ii) hereof during the given performance period, as specified by the Committee in accordance with Section 8(b)(iii) hereof. The Committee may specify the amount of the Performance Award pool as a percentage of any of such criteria, a percentage thereof in excess of a threshold amount, or as another amount which need not bear a strictly mathematical relationship to such criteria. (v) Settlement of Performance Awards; Other Terms. After the end of each performance period, the Committee shall determine the amount, if any, of (A) the Performance Award pool, and the maximum amount of potential Performance Award payable to each Participant in the Performance Award pool, or (B) the amount of potential Performance Award otherwise payable to each Participant. Settlement of such Performance Awards shall be in cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, in the discretion of the Committee. The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of a settlement otherwise to be made in connection with such Performance Awards, but may not exercise discretion to increase any such amount payable to a Covered Employee in respect -15-
of a Performance Award subject to this Section 8(b). The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which such Performance Awards shall be paid or forfeited in the event of termination of employment by the Participant prior to the end of a performance period or settlement of Performance Awards. (c) Annual Incentive Awards Granted to Designated Covered Employees. If the Committee determines that an Annual Incentive Award to be granted to an Eligible Person who is designated by the Committee as likely to be a Covered Employee should qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of section 162(m) of the Code, the grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Annual Incentive Award shall be contingent upon achievement of preestablished performance goals and other terms set forth in this Section 8(c). (i) Annual Incentive Award Pool. The Committee may establish an Annual Incentive Award pool, which shall be an unfunded pool, for purposes of measuring performance of the Company in connection with Annual Incentive Awards. The amount of such Annual Incentive Award pool shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the business criteria set forth in Section 8(b)(ii) hereof during the given performance period, as specified by the Committee in accordance with Section 8(b)(iii) hereof. The Committee may specify the amount of the Annual Incentive Award pool as a percentage of any of such business criteria, a percentage thereof in excess of a threshold amount, or as another amount which need not bear a strictly mathematical relationship to such business criteria. (ii) Potential Annual Incentive Awards. Not later than the end of the 90th day of each applicable year, or at such other date as may be required or permitted in the case of Awards intended to be "performance-based compensation" under section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall determine the Eligible Persons who will potentially receive Annual Incentive Awards, and the amounts potentially payable thereunder, for that fiscal year, either out of an Annual Incentive Award pool established by such date under Section 8(c)(i) hereof or as individual Annual Incentive Awards. In the case of individual Annual Incentive Awards intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Code, the amount potentially payable shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the business criteria set forth in Section 8(b)(ii) hereof in the given performance year, as specified by the Committee; in situations not governed by section 162(m) of the Code, such amount shall be based on such criteria as shall be established by the Committee. In all cases, the maximum Annual Incentive Award of any Participant shall be subject to the limitation set forth in Section 5 hereof. (iii) Payout of Annual Incentive Awards. After the end of each applicable year, the Committee shall determine the amount, if any, of (A) the Annual Incentive Award pool, and the maximum amount of potential Annual Incentive Award payable to each Participant in the Annual Incentive Award pool, or (B) the amount of potential Annual Incentive Award otherwise payable to each Participant. The Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the amount payable to any Participant as a final Annual Incentive Award shall be increased or reduced from the amount of his or her potential Annual Incentive Award, including a determination to make no final Award whatsoever, but may not exercise discretion to increase any such amount in the case of an Annual Incentive Award intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which an Annual Incentive Award -16-
shall be paid or forfeited in the event of termination of employment by the Participant prior to the end of the applicable year or settlement of such Annual Incentive Award. (d) Written Determinations. All determinations by the Committee as to the establishment of performance goals, the amount of any Performance Award pool or potential individual Performance Awards and as to the achievement of performance goals relating to Performance Awards under Section 8(b), and the amount of any Annual Incentive Award pool or potential individual Annual Incentive Awards and the amount of final Annual Incentive Awards under Section 8(c), shall be made in writing in the case of any Award intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee may not delegate any responsibility relating to such Performance Awards or Annual Incentive Awards. (e) Status of Section 8(b) and Section 8(c) Awards under Section 162(m) of the Code. It is the intent of the Company that Performance Awards and Annual Incentive Awards under Sections 8(b) and 8(c) hereof granted to persons who are designated by the Committee as likely to be Covered Employees within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder (including Treasury Regulation ss.1.162-27 and successor regulations thereto) shall, if so designated by the Committee, constitute "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, the terms of Sections 8(b), (c), (d) and (e), including the definitions of Covered Employee and other terms used therein, shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder. The foregoing notwithstanding, because the Committee cannot determine with certainty whether a given Participant will be a Covered Employee with respect to a fiscal year that has not yet been completed, the term Covered Employee as used herein shall mean only a person designated by the Committee, at the time of grant of Performance Awards or an Annual Incentive Award, who is likely to be a Covered Employee with respect to that fiscal year. If any provision of this Plan as in effect on the date of adoption or any agreements relating to Performance Awards or Annual Incentive Awards that are designated as intended to comply with section 162(m) of the Code does not comply or is inconsistent with the requirements of section 162(m) of the Code or regulations thereunder, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements. 9. Recapitalization or Reorganization; Change in Control. (a) Existence of Plans and Awards. The existence of this Plan and the Awards granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company, any issue of debt or equity securities ahead of or affecting Stock or the rights thereof, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or any part of its assets or business or any other corporate act or proceeding. (b) Subdivision or Consolidation of Shares. The terms of an Award and the number of shares of Stock authorized pursuant to Section 4 for issuance under the Plan shall be subject to adjustment from time to time, in accordance with the following provisions: -17-
(i) If at any time, or from time to time, the Company shall subdivide as a whole (by reclassification, by a Stock split, by the issuance of a distribution on Stock payable in Stock, or otherwise) the number of shares of Stock then outstanding into a greater number of shares of Stock, then (A) the maximum number of shares of Stock available for the Plan as provided in Section 4 shall be increased proportionately, and the kind of shares or other securities available for the Plan shall be appropriately adjusted, (B) the number of shares of Stock (or other kind of shares or securities) that may be acquired under any Award shall be increased proportionately, and (C) the price (including the exercise price) for each share of Stock (or other kind of shares or securities) subject to then outstanding Awards shall be reduced proportionately, without changing the aggregate purchase price or value as to which outstanding Awards remain exercisable or subject to restrictions. (ii) If at any time, or from time to time, the Company shall consolidate as a whole (by reclassification, reverse Stock split, or otherwise) the number of shares of Stock then outstanding into a lesser number of shares of Stock, (A) the maximum number of shares of Stock available for the Plan as provided in Section 4 shall be decreased proportionately, and the kind of shares or other securities available for the Plan shall be appropriately adjusted, (B) the number of shares of Stock (or other kind of shares or securities) that may be acquired under any Award shall be decreased proportionately, and (C) the price (including the exercise price) for each share of Stock (or other kind of shares or securities) subject to then outstanding Awards shall be increased proportionately, without changing the aggregate purchase price or value as to which outstanding Awards remain exercisable or subject to restrictions. (iii) Whenever the number of shares of Stock subject to outstanding Awards and the price for each share of Stock subject to outstanding Awards are required to be adjusted as provided in this Section 9(b), the Committee shall promptly prepare a notice setting forth, in reasonable detail, the event requiring adjustment, the amount of the adjustment, the method by which such adjustment was calculated, and the change in price and the number of shares of Stock, other securities, cash, or property purchasable subject to each Award after giving effect to the adjustments. The Committee shall promptly give each Participant such a notice. (iv) Adjustments under Subsections 9(b)(i) and (ii) shall be made by the Committee, and its determination as to what adjustments shall be made and the extent thereof shall be final, binding, and conclusive. No fractional interest shall be issued under the Plan on account of any such adjustments. (c) Corporate Recapitalization. (i) If the Company recapitalizes, reclassifies its capital stock, or otherwise changes its capital structure (a "recapitalization"), the number and class of shares of Stock covered by an Option or an SAR theretofore granted shall be adjusted so that such Option or SAR shall thereafter cover the number and class of shares of stock and securities to which the holder would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the recapitalization if, immediately prior to the recapitalization, the holder had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Stock then covered by such Option or SAR and the share limitations provided in Sections 4 and 5 shall be adjusted in a manner consistent with the recapitalization. -18-
(ii) In the event of changes in the outstanding Stock by reason of recapitalization, reorganizations, mergers, consolidations, combinations, exchanges or other relevant changes in capitalization occurring after the date of the grant of any Award and not otherwise provided for by this Section 9, any outstanding Awards and any agreements evidencing such Awards shall be subject to adjustment by the Committee at its discretion as to the number and price of shares of Stock or other consideration subject to such Awards. In the event of any such change in the outstanding Stock, the aggregate number of shares available under this Plan may be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be conclusive. (d) Additional Issuances. Except as hereinbefore expressly provided, the issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, for cash, property, labor or services, upon direct sale, upon the exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Company convertible into such shares or other securities, and in any case whether or not for fair value, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of shares of Stock subject to Awards theretofore granted or the purchase price per share, if applicable. (e) Change in Control. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, with respect only to Awards held by Participants who are employees or directors of the Company (and their permitted transferees pursuant to Section 10(a)) at the occurrence of the Change in Control, (i) all outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights and Options shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable in full, including that portion of any Stock Appreciation Right or Option that pursuant to the terms and provisions of the applicable Award Agreement had not yet become exercisable (the total number of shares of Stock as to which a Stock Appreciation Right or Option is exercisable upon the occurrence of a Change in Control is referred to herein as the "Total Shares"); (ii) the restriction period of any Restricted Stock Award and Restricted Stock Unit shall immediately be accelerated and the restrictions shall expire; and (iii) the performance goals established under the Performance Awards will be deemed to have been met for all performance periods upon the occurrence of a Change in Control and the holder will be paid a pro rata portion of all associated targeted performance goals (based on the number of complete and partial calendar months elapsed as of the occurrence of the Change in Control) in cash within thirty days following the Change in Control or in Stock effective as of the Change in Control, for cash and stock-based Performance Awards respectively. If a Change in Control involves a Restructure or occurs in connection with a series of related transactions involving a Restructure and if such Restructure is in the form of a Non-Surviving Event and as a part of such Restructure shares of stock, other securities, cash or property shall be issuable or deliverable in exchange for Stock, then the holder of an Award shall be entitled to purchase or receive (in lieu of the Total Shares that the holder would otherwise be entitled to purchase or receive), as appropriate for the form of Award, the number of shares of stock, other securities, cash or property to which that number of Total Shares would have been entitled in connection with such Restructure (and, for Options, at an aggregate exercise price equal to the Exercise Price that would have been payable if that number of Total Shares had been purchased on the exercise of the Option immediately before the consummation of the Restructure). -19-
(f) Restructure and No Change in Control. In the event a Restructure should occur at any time while there is any outstanding Option, SAR, Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit hereunder and that Restructure does not occur in connection with a Change in Control or in connection with a series of related transactions involving a Change in Control, then: (i) no holder of an Option shall automatically be granted corresponding SARs; (ii) neither any outstanding SARs nor any outstanding Options shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable in full merely because of the occurrence of the Restructure; (iii) the restriction period of any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit shall not immediately be accelerated and the restrictions shall not expire merely because of the occurrence of the Restructure; and (iv) at the option of the Committee, the Company may (but shall not be required to) take any one or more of the following actions: (A) grant each holder of an Option corresponding Stock or cash SARs; (B) accelerate in whole or in part the time of the vesting and exercisability of any one or more of the outstanding SARs and Options so as to provide that those SARs and Options shall be exercisable before, upon, or after the consummation of the Restructure; (C) accelerate in whole or in part the expiration of some or all of the restrictions on any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit so that the Stock subject to that Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit shall be owned by the holder without restriction or risk of forfeiture; (D) the performance goals established under the Performance Awards will not be deemed to have been fully met for all performance periods merely because of the occurrence of the Restructure; (E) if the Restructure is in the form of a Non-Surviving Event, cause the surviving entity to assume in whole or in part any one or more of the outstanding Options, SARs, Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units upon such terms and provisions as the Committee deems desirable; or (F) redeem in whole or in part any one or more of the outstanding Options, SARs, Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units (whether or not then exercisable) in consideration of a cash payment, as such payment may be reduced for tax withholding obligations as contemplated in the section governing the particular form of Award, in an amount equal to: -20-
(1) for Options and SARs granted in connection with Options, the excess of a) the Fair Market Value, determined as of the date immediately preceding the consummation of the Restructure, of the aggregate number of shares of Stock subject to the Award and as to which the Award is being redeemed over b) the Exercise Price for that number of shares of Stock; (2) for SARs not granted in connection with an Option, the excess of (a) the Fair Market Value, determined as of the date immediately preceding the consummation of the Restructure, of the aggregate number of shares of Stock subject to the Award and as to which the Award is being redeemed over (b) the Fair Market Value of the number of shares of Stock on the date of grant; (3) for Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units, the Fair Market Value, determined as of the date immediately preceding the consummation of the Restructure, of the aggregate number of shares of Stock subject to the Award and as to which the Award is being redeemed; and (4) for Performance Awards, the amount per Performance Award as the Committee in its sole discretion may determine (which may be zero dollars). The Company shall promptly notify each holder of an outstanding Option, SAR, Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit of any election or action taken by the Company under this Section 9(f). In the event of any election or action taken by the Company pursuant to this Section 9(f) that requires the amendment or cancellation of any Award agreement as may be specified in any notice to the holder thereof, that holder shall promptly deliver that Award agreement to the Company in order for that amendment or cancellation to be implemented by the Company and the Committee. The failure of the holder to deliver any such Award agreement to the Company as provided in the preceding sentence shall not in any manner effect the validity or enforceability of any action taken by the Company and the Committee under this Section 9(f), including, without limitation, any redemption of an Option, SAR, Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit as of the consummation of a Restructure. Any cash payment to be made by the Company pursuant to this Section 9(f) in connection with the redemption of any outstanding Options, SARs, Restricted Stock Awards or Restricted Stock Units shall be paid to the holder thereof currently with the delivery to the Company of the Award agreement evidencing that Award; provided, however, that any such redemption shall be effective upon the consummation of the Restructure notwithstanding that the payment of the redemption price may occur subsequent to the consummation. If all or any portion of an outstanding Option, SAR, Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit is to be exercised or accelerated upon or after the consummation of a Restructure that is in the form of a Non-Surviving Event and as a part of that Restructure shares of stock, other securities, cash or property shall be issuable or deliverable in exchange for Stock, then the holder of such Option, SAR, Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit shall thereafter be entitled to purchase or receive (in lieu of the number of shares of Stock that the holder would otherwise be entitled to purchase or receive) the number of shares of stock, other -21-
securities, cash or property to which such number of shares of Stock would have been entitled in connection with the Restructure (and, for Options, at an aggregate exercise price equal to the Exercise Price that would have been payable if that number of Total Shares had been purchased on the exercise of the Option immediately before the consummation of the Restructure). 10. General Provisions. (a) Transferability. (i) Permitted Transferees. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Participant to transfer all or any portion of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, or authorize all or a portion of such Awards to be granted to an Eligible Person to be on terms which permit transfer by such Participant; provided that, in either case the transferee or transferees must be any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, in each case with respect to the Participant, any person sharing the Participant's household (other than a tenant or employee of the Company), a trust in which these persons have more than fifty percent of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which these persons (or the Participant) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the Participant) own more than fifty percent of the voting interests (collectively, "Permitted Transferees"); provided further that, (X) there may be no consideration for any such transfer and (Y) subsequent transfers of Awards transferred as provided above shall be prohibited except subsequent transfers back to the original holder of the Award and transfers to other Permitted Transferees of the original holder. Agreements evidencing Awards with respect to which such transferability is authorized at the time of grant must be approved by the Committee, and must expressly provide for transferability in a manner consistent with this Subsection 10(a)(i). (ii) Qualified Domestic Relations Orders. An Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Unit Award or Restricted Stock Award may be transferred, to a Permitted Transferee, pursuant to a domestic relations order entered or approved by a court of competent jurisdiction upon delivery to the Company of written notice of such transfer and a certified copy of such order. (iii) Other Transfers. Except as expressly permitted by Subsections 10(a)(i) and 10(a)(ii), Awards shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 10, an Incentive Stock Option shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. (iv) Effect of Transfer. Following the transfer of any Award as contemplated by Subsections 10(a)(i), 10(a)(ii) and 10(a)(iii), (A) such Award shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer, provided that the term "Participant" shall be deemed to refer to the Permitted Transferee, the recipient under a qualified domestic relations order, the estate or heirs of a deceased Participant, or other transferee, as applicable, to the extent appropriate to enable the Participant to exercise the transferred Award in accordance with the terms of this Plan and applicable law and (B) the provisions of the Award relating to -22-
exercisability hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Participant and, following the occurrence of any such events described therein the Awards shall be exercisable by the Permitted Transferee, the recipient under a qualified domestic relations order, the estate or heirs of a deceased Participant, or other transferee, as applicable, only to the extent and for the periods that would have been applicable in the absence of the transfer. (v) Procedures and Restrictions. Any Participant desiring to transfer an Award as permitted under Subsections 10(a)(i), 10(a)(ii) or 10(a)(iii) shall make application therefor in the manner and time specified by the Committee and shall comply with such other requirements as the Committee may require to assure compliance with all applicable securities laws. The Committee shall not give permission for such a transfer if (A) it would give rise to short-swing liability under section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or (B) it may not be made in compliance with all applicable federal, state and foreign securities laws. (vi) Registration. To the extent the issuance to any Permitted Transferee of any shares of Stock issuable pursuant to Awards transferred as permitted in this Section 10(a) is not registered pursuant to the effective registration statement of the Company generally covering the shares to be issued pursuant to this Plan to initial holders of Awards, the Company shall not have any obligation to register the issuance of any such shares of Stock to any such transferee. (b) Taxes. The Company and any Subsidiary is authorized to withhold from any Award granted, or any payment relating to an Award under this Plan, including from a distribution of Stock, amounts of withholding and other taxes due or potentially payable in connection with any transaction involving an Award, and to take such other action as the Committee may deem advisable to enable the Company and Participants to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations relating to any Award. This authority shall include authority to withhold or receive Stock or other property and to make cash payments in respect thereof in satisfaction of a Participant's tax obligations, either on a mandatory or elective basis in the discretion of the Committee. (c) Changes to this Plan and Awards. The Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate this Plan or the Committee's authority to grant Awards under this Plan without the consent of stockholders or Participants, except that any amendment or alteration to this Plan, including any increase in any share limitation, shall be subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders not later than the annual meeting next following such Board action if such stockholder approval is required by any federal or state law or regulation or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock may then be listed or quoted, and the Board may otherwise, in its discretion, determine to submit other such changes to this Plan to stockholders for approval; provided that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such Board action may materially and adversely affect the rights of such Participant under any previously granted and outstanding Award. The Committee may waive any conditions or rights under, or amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any Award theretofore granted and any Award agreement relating thereto, except as otherwise provided in this Plan; provided that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such Committee action may materially and adversely affect the rights of such Participant under such Award. -23-
(d) Limitation on Rights Conferred under Plan. Neither this Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as (i) giving any Eligible Person or Participant the right to continue as an Eligible Person or Participant or in the employ or service of the Company or a Subsidiary, (ii) interfering in any way with the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate any Eligible Person's or Participant's employment or service at any time, (iii) giving an Eligible Person or Participant any claim to be granted any Award under this Plan or to be treated uniformly with other Participants and employees, or (iv) conferring on a Participant any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Participant is duly issued or transferred shares of Stock in accordance with the terms of an Award. (e) Unfunded Status of Awards. This Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for certain incentive awards. (f) Nonexclusivity of this Plan. Neither the adoption of this Plan by the Board nor its submission to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or a committee thereof to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it may deem desirable, including incentive arrangements and awards which do not qualify under section 162(m) of the Code. Nothing contained in this Plan shall be construed to prevent the Company or any Subsidiary from taking any corporate action which is deemed by the Company or such Subsidiary to be appropriate or in its best interest, whether or not such action would have an adverse effect on this Plan or any Award made under this Plan. No employee, beneficiary or other person shall have any claim against the Company or any Subsidiary as a result of any such action. (g) Severability. If any provision of this Plan is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof, but such provision shall be fully severable and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein. If any of the terms or provisions of this Plan or any Award agreement conflict with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 (as those terms or provisions are applied to Eligible Persons who are subject to section 16(b) of the Exchange Act) or section 422 of the Code (with respect to Incentive Stock Options), then those conflicting terms or provisions shall be deemed inoperative to the extent they so conflict with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 (unless the Board or the Committee, as appropriate, has expressly determined that the Plan or such Award should not comply with Rule 16b-3) or section 422 of the Code. With respect to Incentive Stock Options, if this Plan does not contain any provision required to be included herein under section 422 of the Code, that provision shall be deemed to be incorporated herein with the same force and effect as if that provision had been set out at length herein; provided, further, that, to the extent any Option that is intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option cannot so qualify, that Option (to that extent) shall be deemed an Option not subject to section 422 of the Code for all purposes of the Plan. (h) Governing Law. All questions arising with respect to the provisions of the Plan and Awards shall be determined by application of the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to any conflict of law provisions thereof, except to the extent Delaware law is preempted by federal law. The obligation of the Company to sell and deliver Stock hereunder is subject to applicable federal and state laws and to the approval of any governmental authority required in connection with the authorization, issuance, sale, or delivery of such Stock. -24-
(i) Conditions to Delivery of Stock. Nothing herein or in any Award granted hereunder or any Award agreement shall require the Company to issue any shares with respect to any Award if that issuance would, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, constitute a violation of the Securities Act or any similar or superseding statute or statutes, any other applicable statute or regulation, or the rules of any applicable securities exchange or securities association, as then in effect. At the time of any exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, or at the time of any grant of a Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit, the Company may, as a condition precedent to the exercise of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right or settlement of any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit, require from the Participant (or in the event of his death, his legal representatives, heirs, legatees, or distributees) such written representations, if any, concerning the holder's intentions with regard to the retention or disposition of the shares of Stock being acquired pursuant to the Award and such written covenants and agreements, if any, as to the manner of disposal of such shares as, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, may be necessary to ensure that any disposition by that holder (or in the event of the holder's death, his legal representatives, heirs, legatees, or distributees) will not involve a violation of the Securities Act or any similar or superseding statute or statutes, any other applicable state or federal statute or regulation, or any rule of any applicable securities exchange or securities association, as then in effect. No Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable and no settlement of any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit shall occur with respect to a Participant unless and until the holder thereof shall have paid cash or property to, or performed services for, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that the Committee believes is equal to or greater in value than the par value of the Stock subject to such Award. -25-

EXHIBIT 10.2 AWARD AGREEMENT PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 2006 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT TO BE USED IN CONNECTION WITH THE ANNUAL EQUITY AWARD ((Date_of_Grant)) ((First_Name)) ((Middle_Name)) ((Last_Name))((Suffix)) ((Address_1)) ((Address_2)) ((City_State_Zip)) Dear ((Prefix)) ((Last_Name)): 1. Restricted Stock Unit Pioneer Natural Resources Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), hereby grants to you an award (the "Award") to receive ((Annual_Equity_Shares)) Restricted Stock Units (the "Restricted Stock Units"), whereby each Restricted Stock Unit represents the right to receive one share of common stock, par value $0.01, of the Company (the "Stock"), plus an additional amount pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement, subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this "Agreement"), your Election Form (if any), and the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. Except as provided below, to the extent any provision of this Agreement conflicts with the expressly applicable terms of the Plan, you acknowledge and agree that those terms of the Plan shall control and, if necessary, the applicable provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed amended so as to carry out the purpose and intent of the Plan. Terms that have their initial letters capitalized, but that are not otherwise defined in this Agreement, shall have the meanings given to them in the Plan as in effect as of the date of this Agreement. 2. No Shareholder Rights Except as provided in Section 3 of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement do not and shall not entitle you to any rights as a shareholder of Stock until such time as you receive shares of Stock pursuant to this Agreement. Your rights with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which rights become vested and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse in accordance with Sections 5, 6, 8 or 9 of this Agreement. 3. Dividend Equivalents As long as you hold Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall pay to you, on December 31 of each year, a cash 1
payment equal to the cash dividends you would have received if you were the beneficial owner, as of the dividend declaration date, of the number of shares of Stock related to the portion of your Restricted Stock Units that have not been settled as of the applicable dividend declaration date. 4. Conversion of Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Stock; Payment of Stock No shares of Stock shall be issued to you prior to the date on which the Restricted Stock Units vest and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Sections 5, 6, 8 or 9 of this Agreement; provided, however, that no Stock will be paid to you or your beneficiary prior to the time or times specified in Section 5, 6, 8 or 9 of this Agreement, or, if applicable, the time or times elected by you pursuant to your Election Form. Neither this Section 4 nor any action taken pursuant to or in accordance with this Section 4 shall be construed to create a trust of any kind. After any Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Sections 5, 6, 8 or 9 of this Agreement, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued Stock in book entry form registered in your name in settlement of such vested Restricted Stock Units; provided, however, that, if applicable, no Stock payable to you as a result of the vesting of Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 5 or 9 of this Agreement will be paid to you prior to the time elected by you pursuant to your Election Form. The value of any fractional Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash at the time Stock certificates are delivered to you in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. The value of the fractional Restricted Stock Units shall equal the percentage of a Restricted Stock Unit represented by a fractional Restricted Stock Unit multiplied by the Fair Market Value of the Stock. 5. Vesting Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units granted herein will vest in full on the earlier of the first anniversary of the date of grant or the day prior to the date of the next annual meeting of stockholders, provided, however, that if you retire, resign or are removed prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, your vested percentage will be 25% for each quarterly meeting that occurred on or after the date of this Agreement and prior to your retirement, resignation or removal. Upon the vesting date, the forfeiture restrictions associated with the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse provided you performed the necessary services for the Company, without interruption, from the time of the date of this letter until the applicable vesting date. 6. Early Vesting Upon a Change in Control Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 5 of this Agreement, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, immediately prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), all of the Restricted Stock Units shall become immediately and unconditionally vested and the shares of Stock related to the Restricted Stock Units shall be paid to you immediately prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything provided in this Section 6 or the Plan to the contrary, a Change in Control shall for all purposes be defined in a manner consistent with Section 409A of the Code and if the definition of Change in Control provided herein differs in any way from the definition of a change in control provided under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder, the officers of the Company shall have the unilateral right to take all 2
commercially reasonable efforts exercised in good faith to revise the definition of a Change in Control for purposes of this Agreement to conform in all material respects to the definition of a change in control for purposes of Section 409A. 7. Forfeiture Except as may be provided in this Agreement, if, prior to the vesting of any Restricted Stock Units, you cease to be a director of the Company for any reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, your rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited. 8. Death Upon your death, notwithstanding anything provided in this Agreement to the contrary, all of the Restricted Stock Units shall become immediately and unconditionally vested, and the Stock payable with respect to the vested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately distributed to, as applicable, your legal representatives, legatees or distributees. 9. Disability If your service relationship with the Company is terminated by reason of your Disability, as such term is defined in Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or the Plan to the contrary, all of the Restricted Stock Units shall become immediately and unconditionally vested. 10. Restriction on Transfer The Restricted Stock Units and any rights under this Agreement may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of by you other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any purported sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation, or other disposition shall be void and unenforceable against the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may in the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise your rights to receive any property distributable with respect to the Restricted Stock Units upon your death. 11. No Liability for Good Faith Determinations The Company and the members of its Board of Directors shall not be liable for any acts, omissions, or determinations taken or made in good faith with respect to this Agreement or the shares of Stock distributable hereunder. 12. No Guarantees of Interest The Company and Board of Directors of the Company do not guarantee the Stock from loss or depreciation. 3
13. Notices Whenever any notice is required or permitted hereunder, such notice must be in writing and personally delivered or sent by mail. Any such notice required or permitted to be delivered hereunder shall be deemed to be delivered on the date on which it is personally delivered or whether actually received or not on the third business day, for which banking institutions in the state of Texas are open, after it is deposited in the United States Mail, certified or registered, postage prepaid, addressed to the person who is to receive it at the address which such person has theretofore specified by written notice delivered in accordance herewith. The Company or you may change at any time and from time to time by written notice to the other, the address which it or he previously specified for receiving notices. The Company and you agree that any notices shall be given to the Company or to you at the following addresses: Company: Pioneer Natural Resources Company Attn: Corporate Secretary 5205 N. O'Connor Boulevard, Suite 200 Irving, Texas 75039-3746 Recipient: At your current address as shown in the Company's records. 14. Agreement Respecting Taxes If withholding of taxes is applicable with respect to your position with the Company you agree that: a. You will pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding payment of any federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld by the Company with respect to the Restricted Stock Units including with the Company's approval the withholding of Stock that is subject to this Agreement or by your transfer of other shares of Stock to the Company; and b. The Company shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct from any payment of any kind otherwise due to you any federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the Restricted Stock Units. 15. Adjustment of Shares The number of shares associated with the award of Restricted Stock Units subject to this Agreement shall be adjusted in a manner consistent with the adjustment provisions provided in Section 9(c)(ii) of the Plan. 16. Agreement Respecting Securities Act of 1933 You represent and agree that you will not sell the Stock that may be issued to you pursuant to your Restricted Stock Units except pursuant to an effective 4
registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (including Rule 144). 17. Payment Date The payment date of the Stock related to your Restricted Stock Units will be the date provided in Section 4 of this Agreement. 18. Interpretation Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, any provision of this Agreement that is inconsistent with the provisions of Sections 9(c), (e) or (f) of the Plan shall control over such provisions of the Plan. 19. Amendment This Agreement and the Election Form associated herewith may be amended at any time unilaterally by the Company provided that such amendment is consistent with all applicable laws including Section 409A of the Code and does not reduce any rights or benefits you have accrued pursuant to this Agreement and/or the Election Form. This Agreement, but not the Election Form, may be amended in any manner consistent with all applicable laws including Section 409A of the Code by a written consent executed by you and a duly authorized representative of the Company. If you accept this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement and agree to its terms and conditions, please so confirm by signing and returning the duplicate of this Agreement enclosed for that purpose. Very truly yours, PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY By: ----------------------------------------------- Name: Mark S. Berg Title: EVP and General Counsel Date: ((Date_of_Grant)) DIRECTOR By: ----------------------------------------------- Name: ((First_Name)) ((Middle_Name)) ((Last_Name)) ((Suffix)) 5
Schedule I 1. The Company entered into an Award Agreement in the form of this Exhibit 10.2 with respect to an annual equity grant made to each of the Company's non-employee directors, which grant related to the number of restricted stock units (RSU's) set forth below opposite each such directors' name: 2. The Company also entered into an additional Award Agreement with respect to an annual fee grant made to those of the Company's non-employee directors who are named below, which grant related to the number of RSU's set forth opposite each such directors' name: The Award Agreements evidencing these annual fee grants varied from this Exhibit 10.2 in the following respect: The first sentence of Section 5 of this Exhibit 10.2 was deleted and replaced in the Award Agreements relating to the annual fee grants with the following sentence: "Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units granted herein will vest in four equal amounts three months, six months, nine months and one year from the date of grant or in full (if earlier) on the day prior to the date of the next annual meeting of shareholders." 6

EXHIBIT 99.1 NEWS RELEASE Company Contacts: Investors: Frank Hopkins Media and Public Affairs: Susan Spratlen (972) 444-9001 Pioneer Announces Retirement of Board Member Dallas, Texas, May 4, 2006 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company (NYSE:PXD) announced that Jerry P. Jones has retired from its board of directors, having reached the Company's mandatory retirement age for board members. Mr. Jones joined the board of Pioneer's predecessor, Parker & Parsley Petroleum Company, in May 1991 and continued his service on the board of Pioneer upon its formation in 1997. During his tenure, Pioneer has grown from a West Texas-focused independent to a more diversified company with operations across the United States and in Canada and Africa. "Pioneer has been very fortunate to have Jerry serve on our board for the last 15 years," stated Scott Sheffield, Pioneer's Chairman and CEO. "He has been a highly effective director, and we will miss his strong leadership and wise counsel. We extend our gratitude and best wishes to Jerry and his wife, Billye, in his retirement." Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company, headquartered in Dallas, with operations in the United States, Canada and Africa. For more information, visit Pioneer's website at www.pxd.com.


