FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20061117154031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 14, 2006 ------------------------ PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-13245 75-2702753 (State or other (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer jurisdiction of incorporation) Identification Number) 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd 75039 Suite 200 (Zip code) Irving, Texas (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 444-9001 Not applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement................ 3 Item 2.04. Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement......................................... 4 Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year..................................... 4 Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.................................. 5 Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits (d) Exhibits............................................ 5 Signature............................................................. 6 Exhibit Index......................................................... 7 2
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. On November 15, 2006, Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") entered into new indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers (each an "Indemnitee"). The current executive officers are Scott D. Sheffield, Timothy L. Dove, A.R. Alameddine, Mark S. Berg, Chris J. Cheatwood, Richard P. Dealy, William F. Hannes, Danny L. Kellum and Darin G. Holderness. The current directors (in addition to Mr. Sheffield) are James R. Baroffio, Edison C. Buchanan, R. Hartwell Gardner, Linda K. Lawson, Andrew D. Lundquist, Charles E. Ramsey, Jr., Frank A. Risch, Mark S. Sexton, Robert A. Solberg, and Jim A. Watson. These new agreements replace the indemnification agreements that all the directors and executive officers previously had with the Company. The Company decided to enter into new indemnification agreements principally to update its forms. A description of the new forms of indemnification agreement is contained in this report and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of agreement that is filed as an exhibit to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Each indemnification agreement requires the Company to indemnify each Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law. This means, among other things, that the Company must indemnify the director or executive officer against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement that are actually and reasonably incurred in an action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that the person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or other entity if the Indemnitee meets the standard of conduct provided in Delaware law. Also as permitted under Delaware law, the indemnification agreements require the Company to advance expenses in defending such an action provided that the director or executive officer undertakes to repay the amounts if the person ultimately is determined not to be entitled to indemnification from the Company. The Company will also make the Indemnitee whole for taxes imposed on the indemnification payments and for costs in any action to establish Indemnitee's right to indemnification, whether or not wholly successful. In general, the disinterested directors on the board of the Company or a committee of disinterested directors have the authority to determine an Indemnitee's right to indemnification, but the Indemnitee can require that independent legal counsel make this determination if a change in control or potential change in control has occurred. In addition, the Indemnitee can require the Company to establish a trust fund with a third-party trustee sufficient to satisfy the indemnification obligations and expenses if a change in control or potential change in control has occurred. The indemnification agreements require the Company to continue director and officers' liability insurance coverage for an Indemnitee for six years after the Indemnitee ceases to be an officer or director, and they obligate the Company to procure up to a six-year run-off policy in the event of a change in control or termination of the person in the year following a change in control of the Company. The indemnification agreements also limit the period in which the Company can bring an action against the Indemnitee to three years for breaches of fiduciary duty and to one year for other types of claims. Definitions of "potential change in control," "change in control" and certain other terms used in this report are set forth in the form of indemnification agreement that is filed as an exhibit to this report and incorporated herein by reference. 3
Item 2.04. Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement. On November 14, 2006, the Company gave notice to the trustee under the Indenture dated as of December 18, 2001, by and between the Company, as successor to Evergreen Resources, Inc., and U.S. Bank National Association, the successor to Wachovia Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as amended and supplemented through the date hereof (the "Indenture"), of the Company's election to redeem in cash all of the Company's outstanding 4.75% Senior Convertible Notes due 2021 (the "Notes"). The Redemption Date for the Notes will be December 20, 2006. The redemption price for the Notes will be 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the date of redemption. The Notes were originally issued on December 18, 2001, by Evergreen Resources, Inc. and, as of November 14, 2006, there were approximately $27 million of aggregate principal amount outstanding. The notice of redemption will be mailed to registered holders of the Notes on or about November 28, 2006. Notes are to be surrendered to U.S. Bancorp, as trustee and paying agent, in exchange for payment of the redemption price. Questions relating to, and requests for additional copies of, the notice of redemption should be directed to U.S. Bank Corporate Trust Services at 5555 San Felipe Street, 11th Floor, Mail Code: EX-TX-WSFH, Houston, Texas 77056, telephone (713) 235-9208. In lieu of the redemption, holders may continue to convert their Notes until the close of business on Monday, December 18, 2006. Each $25.00 principal amount of Notes outstanding is convertible into $19.98 in cash and 0.58175 of a share of the Company's common stock. On and after the redemption date, the Notes will no longer be deemed outstanding, interest will cease to accrue thereon, and all rights of the holder of the Notes will cease, except for the right to receive the redemption price, without interest thereon. Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year On November 15, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company amended and restated the Bylaws of the Company. Among the changes to the Bylaws, the Board of Directors: o Amended Section 2.4 to conform the provisions relating to notice of stockholders meetings to the general requirements for notice provided in Section 5.1; o Amended Section 2.8 to provide that a stockholder may authorize another person to act for such stockholder by proxy in any manner permitted by law; o Amended Section 3.2 to clarify that, except as otherwise required by the Company's stock ownership guidelines, a director of the Company need not be a stockholder of the Company; o Amended Section 3.2 to remove the provision providing (i) that persons serving as directors become ineligible to serve as such upon reaching the age of 75 and (ii) that persons reaching the age of 75 during the first year of a term as a director are ineligible for nomination as a director for such term; o Deleted Section 4.10 relating to the compensation of committee members; o Amended Section 6.2 to clarify that, except as otherwise required by the Company's stock ownership guidelines, an officer of the Company need not be a stockholder of the Company; and o Amended Section 7.1 to provide that shares of capital stock in the Company may be certificated or uncertificated. 4
As a result of the amendment to Section 3.2 of the Bylaws, James R. Baroffio, who otherwise would have been ineligible, will now be eligible to be nominated for reelection to the Board of Directors upon the expiration of his current term in 2008. The foregoing is a summary of the material amendments to the Bylaws adopted by the Board of Directors. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Bylaws, as amended and restated, a copy of which are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference. Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure On November 15, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted new charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and new Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Company expects that on or prior to December 1, 2006, the new charters and guidelines will be posted and available for viewing on the Company's website at www.pxd.com. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits 3.1 - Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company. 10.1 - Indemnification Agreement between the Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule identifying other substantially identical agreements between the Company and each of its executive officers and non-employee directors identified on the schedule and identifying the material differences between each of those agreements and the filed Indemnification Agreement. 5
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY /s/ Darin G. Holderness ------------------------------------------- Darin G. Holderness Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: November 17, 2006 6
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Exhibit Title ------- ------------- 3.1 Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company. 10.1 Indemnification Agreement between the Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule identifying other substantially identical agreements between the Company and each of its executive officers and non-employee directors identified on the schedule and identifying the material differences between each of those agreements and the filed Indemnification Agreement. 7

Exhibit 3.1 AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY A Delaware Corporation
TABLE OF CONTENTS Page ARTICLE ONE: OFFICES 1.1 Registered Office and Agent....................................1 1.2 Other Offices..................................................1 ARTICLE TWO: MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS 2.1 Annual Meeting.................................................1 2.2 Special Meeting................................................1 2.3 Place of Meetings..............................................2 2.4 Notice.........................................................2 2.5 Voting List....................................................2 2.6 Quorum.........................................................2 2.7 Required Vote; Withdrawal of Quorum............................3 2.8 Method of Voting; Proxies......................................3 2.9 Record Date....................................................3 2.10 Conduct of Meeting.............................................4 2.11 Inspectors.....................................................4 ARTICLE THREE: DIRECTORS 3.1 Management.....................................................4 3.2 Number; Election; Classification; Term; Qualification..........4 3.3 Change in Number...............................................5 3.4 Removal........................................................5 3.5 Vacancies......................................................6 3.6 Meetings of Directors..........................................6 3.7 First Meeting..................................................6 3.8 Election of Officers...........................................6 3.9 Regular Meetings...............................................6 3.10 Special Meetings...............................................6 3.11 Notice.........................................................6 3.12 Quorum; Majority Vote..........................................7 3.13 Procedure......................................................7 3.14 Presumption of Assent..........................................7 3.15 Compensation...................................................7 i
ARTICLE FOUR: COMMITTEES 4.1 Designation....................................................8 4.2 Number; Qualification; Term....................................8 4.3 Authority......................................................8 4.4 Committee Changes..............................................8 4.5 Alternate Members of Committees................................8 4.6 Regular Meetings...............................................8 4.7 Special Meetings...............................................8 4.8 Quorum; Majority Vote..........................................8 4.9 Minutes........................................................9 4.10 Responsibility.................................................9 ARTICLE FIVE: NOTICE 5.1 Method.........................................................9 5.2 Waiver.........................................................9 ARTICLE SIX: OFFICERS 6.1 Number; Titles; Term of Office.................................9 6.2 Removal.......................................................10 6.3 Vacancies.....................................................10 6.4 Authority.....................................................10 6.5 Compensation..................................................10 6.6 Chairman of the Board.........................................10 6.7 President.....................................................10 6.8 Vice Presidents...............................................11 6.9 Treasurer.....................................................11 6.10 Assistant Treasurers..........................................11 6.11 Secretary.....................................................11 6.12 Assistant Secretaries.........................................12 6.13 Other Officers................................................12 ARTICLE SEVEN: CERTIFICATES AND STOCKHOLDERS 7.1 Certificates for Shares.......................................12 7.2 Replacement of Lost or Destroyed Certificates.................12 7.3 Transfer of Shares............................................12 7.4 Registered Stockholders.......................................13 ii
7.5 Regulations...................................................13 7.6 Legends.......................................................13 ARTICLE EIGHT: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 8.1 Dividends.....................................................13 8.2 Reserves......................................................13 8.3 Books and Records.............................................13 8.4 Fiscal Year...................................................13 8.5 Seal..........................................................13 8.6 Resignations..................................................14 8.7 Securities of Other Corporations..............................14 8.8 Telephone Meetings............................................14 8.9 Action Without a Meeting......................................14 8.10 Invalid Provisions............................................14 8.11 Mortgages, etc................................................14 8.12 Headings......................................................14 8.13 References....................................................15 8.14 Amendments....................................................15 iii
AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY A Delaware Corporation PREAMBLE These bylaws are subject to, and governed by, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware General Corporation Law") and the certificate of incorporation of Pioneer Natural Resources Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"). In the event of a direct conflict between the provisions of these bylaws and the mandatory provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law or the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of the Company, such provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law or the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as the case may be, will be controlling. ARTICLE ONE: OFFICES 1.1 Registered Office and Agent. The registered office and registered agent of the Company shall be as designated from time to time by the appropriate filing by the Company in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. 1.2 Other Offices. The Company may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware, as the board of directors may from time to time determine or as the business of the Company may require. ARTICLE TWO: MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS 2.1 Annual Meeting. An annual meeting of stockholders of the Company shall be held each calendar year on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the board of directors and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice of such meeting. At such meeting, the stockholders shall elect directors and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting. 2.2 Special Meeting. Except as otherwise required by law, special meetings of the common stockholders of the Company, and any proposals to be considered at such meetings, may be called and proposed exclusively by the board of directors, pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors at the time in office, and no stockholder of the Company shall require the board of directors to call a special meeting of common stockholders or to propose business at a special meeting of common stockholders. A special meeting shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated by the resolution calling the meeting and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a 1
duly executed waiver of notice of such meeting. Only such business shall be transacted at a special meeting as may be stated or indicated in the notice of such meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice of such meeting. 2.3 Place of Meetings. An annual meeting of stockholders may be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware designated by the board of directors. A special meeting of stockholders may be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware designated in the notice of the meeting or a duly executed waiver of notice of such meeting. Meetings of stockholders shall be held at the principal office of the Company unless another place is designated for meetings in the manner provided herein. 2.4 Notice. Written or printed notice stating the place, day, and time of each meeting of the stockholders and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered in accordance with Section 5.1 not less than ten nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board if such office has been filled (otherwise, the President) or the Secretary, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If such notice is to be sent by mail, it shall be directed to such stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Company, unless he or she shall have filed with the Secretary of the Company a written request that notices to him be mailed to some other address, in which case it shall be directed to him at such other address. Notice of any meeting of stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall attend such meeting in person or by proxy and shall not, at the beginning of such meeting, object to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened, or who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a signed waiver of notice, in person or by proxy. 2.5 Voting List. At least ten days before each meeting of stockholders, the Secretary or other officer of the Company who has charge of the Company's stock ledger, either directly or through another officer appointed by him or through a transfer agent appointed by the board of directors, shall prepare a complete list of stockholders entitled to vote thereat, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. For a period of ten days prior to such meeting, such list shall be kept on file at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of meeting or a duly executed waiver of notice of such meeting or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held and shall be open to examination by any stockholder during ordinary business hours. Such list shall be produced at such meeting and kept at the meeting at all times during such meeting and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. 2.6 Quorum. The holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on a matter, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of stockholders, except as otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Company, or these bylaws. If a quorum shall not be present, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat who are present, in person or by proxy, 2
or, if no stockholder entitled to vote is present, any officer of the Company may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting (unless the board of directors, after such adjournment, fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting), until a quorum shall be present, in person or by proxy. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, in person or by proxy, any business may be transacted which may have been transacted at the original meeting had a quorum been present; provided that, if the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting. 2.7 Required Vote; Withdrawal of Quorum. When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one on which, by express provision of statute, the certificate of incorporation of the Company, or these bylaws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question. The stockholders present at a duly constituted meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. 2.8 Method of Voting; Proxies. Except as otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation of the Company or by law, each outstanding share, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of stockholders. Elections of directors need not be by written ballot. At any meeting of stockholders, every stockholder having the right to vote may vote in person or may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy in any manner permitted by law. Each such proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the Company before or at the time of the meeting. No proxy shall be valid after three years from its date, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. If no date is stated in a proxy, such proxy shall be presumed to have been dated on the date of the meeting at which it is to be voted. Each proxy shall be revocable unless expressly provided therein to be irrevocable and coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power or unless otherwise made irrevocable by law. 2.9 Record Date. For the purpose of determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders, or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion, or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the board of directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors, for any such determination of stockholders, such date in any case to be not more than 60 days and not less than ten days prior to such meeting nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. If no record date is fixed: (a) The record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the 3
day next preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. (b) The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. (c) A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the board of directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. 2.10 Conduct of Meeting. The Chairman of the Board, if such office has been filled, shall preside at all meetings of stockholders. If such office has not been filled, or if the Chairman of the Board is absent or otherwise unable to act, the President shall preside. The Secretary shall keep the records of each meeting of stockholders. In the absence or inability to act of any such officer, such officer's duties shall be performed by the officer given the authority to act for such absent or non-acting officer under these bylaws or by some person appointed by the meeting. 2.11 Inspectors. The board of directors may, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at such meeting or any adjournment thereof. If any of the inspectors so appointed shall fail to appear or act, the chairman of the meeting shall, or if inspectors shall not have been appointed, the chairman of the meeting may, appoint one or more inspectors. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall determine the number of shares of capital stock of the Company outstanding and the voting power of each, the number of shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the validity and effect of proxies and shall receive votes or ballots, hear and determine all challenges and questions arising in connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all votes or ballots, determine the results, and do such acts as are proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all stockholders. On request of the chairman of the meeting, the inspectors shall make a report in writing of any challenge, request, or matter determined by them and shall execute a certificate of any fact found by them. No director or candidate for the office of director shall act as an inspector of an election of directors. Inspectors need not be stockholders. ARTICLE THREE: DIRECTORS 3.1 Management. The business and property of the Company shall be managed by the board of directors. Subject to the restrictions imposed by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Company, or these bylaws, the board of directors may exercise all the powers of the Company. 3.2 Number; Election; Classification; Term; Qualification. The number of directors that shall constitute the entire board of directors shall be not less than three and not more than twenty-one. The first board of directors shall 4
consist of the number of directors named in the certificate of incorporation of the Company or, if no directors are so named, shall consist of the number of directors elected by the incorporator(s) at an organizational meeting or by unanimous written consent in lieu thereof. Thereafter, within the limits above specified, the number of directors that shall constitute the whole board of directors shall from time to time be fixed exclusively by the board of directors by a resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board of directors serving at the time of that vote. Except as otherwise required by law or required or permitted by the certificate of incorporation of the Company or these bylaws, the directors shall be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders at which a quorum is present. Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the election of directors. Effective at the time specified in the certificate of incorporation of the Company, the board of directors of the Company shall be divided into three classes designated Class I, Class II, and Class III, respectively, all as nearly equal in number as possible, with each director then in office receiving the classification that at least a majority of the board of directors designates. The initial term of office of the directors of Class I shall expire at the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company in 1998, of Class II shall expire at the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company in 1999, and of Class III shall expire at the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company in 2000, and in all cases as to each director until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal. At each annual meeting of stockholders beginning with the annual meeting of stockholders in 1998, each director elected to succeed a director whose term is then expiring shall hold his or her office until the third annual meeting of stockholders after his or her election and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal. Except as may be required pursuant to any stock ownership requirements adopted by the board or any of its committees, none of the directors need be a stockholder of the Company. None of the directors need be a resident of the State of Delaware. Each director must have attained the age of majority. 3.3 Change in Number. If the number of directors that constitutes the whole board of directors is changed in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and these bylaws, the majority of the whole board of directors that adopts the change shall also fix and determine the number of directors comprising each class; provided, however, that any increase or decrease in the number of directors shall be apportioned among the classes as equally as possible. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the entire board of directors shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director. 3.4 Removal. No director of any class of directors of the Company shall be removed before the expiration date of that director's term of office except for cause and by an affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the class or classes or series of stock then entitled to be voted at an election of directors of that class or series, voting together as a single class, cast at the annual meeting of stockholders or at any special meeting of stockholders called by a majority of the whole board of directors for this purpose. 5
3.5 Vacancies. Vacancies in the board of directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office, or other cause and newly-created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by no less than a majority of the remaining directors then in office, though less than a quorum, who are designated to represent the same class or classes of stockholders that the vacant position, when filled, is to represent or by the sole remaining director (but not by the common stockholders except as required by law), and each director so chosen shall receive the classification of the vacant directorship to which he or she has been appointed or, if it is a newly-created directorship, shall receive the classification that at least a majority of the board of directors designates and shall hold office until the first meeting of stockholders held after his or her election for the purpose of electing directors of that classification and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her death, resignation, or removal from office. If there are no directors in office, an election of directors may be held in the manner provided by statute. Except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, when one or more directors shall resign from the board of directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, who are designated to represent the same class or classes or series of stockholders that the position being vacated represents shall have the power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each director so chosen shall hold office as provided in these bylaws with respect to the filling of other vacancies. 3.6 Meetings of Directors. The directors may hold their meetings and may have an office and keep the books of the Company, except as otherwise provided by statute, in such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the board of directors may from time to time determine or as shall be specified in the notice of such meeting or duly executed waiver of notice of such meeting. 3.7 First Meeting. Each newly elected board of directors may hold its first meeting for the purpose of organization and the transaction of business, if a quorum is present, immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of stockholders, and no notice of such meeting shall be necessary. 3.8 Election of Officers. At the first meeting of the board of directors after each annual meeting of stockholders at which a quorum shall be present, the board of directors shall elect the officers of the Company. 3.9 Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the board of directors shall be held at such times and places as shall be designated from time to time by resolution of the board of directors. Notice of such regular meetings shall not be required. 3.10 Special Meetings. Special meetings of the board of directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or any director. 3.11 Notice. The Secretary shall give notice of each special meeting to each director at least 24 hours before the meeting. Notice of any such meeting need not be given to any director who shall, either before or after the meeting, 6
submit a signed waiver of notice or who shall attend such meeting without protesting, prior to or at its commencement, the lack of notice to him. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the board of directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting. 3.12 Quorum; Majority Vote. At all meetings of the board of directors, a majority of the directors fixed in the manner provided in these bylaws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If at any meeting of the board of directors there be less than a quorum present, a majority of those present or any director solely present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. Unless the act of a greater number is required by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Company, or these bylaws, the act of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is in attendance shall be the act of the board of directors. At any time that the certificate of incorporation of the Company provides that directors elected by the holders of a class or series of stock shall have more or less than one vote per director on any matter, every reference in these bylaws to a majority or other proportion of directors shall refer to a majority or other proportion of the votes of such directors. 3.13 Procedure. At meetings of the board of directors, business shall be transacted in such order as from time to time the board of directors may determine. The Chairman of the Board, if such office has been filled, shall preside at all meetings of the board of directors. If such position has not been filled, or if the Chairman of the Board is absent or otherwise unable to act, the President shall preside. In the absence or inability to act of either such officer, a chairman shall be chosen by the board of directors from among the directors present. The Secretary of the Company shall act as the secretary of each meeting of the board of directors unless the board of directors appoints another person to act as secretary of the meeting. The board of directors shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings which shall be placed in the minute book of the Company. 3.14 Presumption of Assent. A director of the Company who is present at the meeting of the board of directors at which action on any corporate matter is taken shall be presumed to have assented to the action unless his or her dissent shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting or unless he or she shall file his or her written dissent to such action with the person acting as secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof or shall forward any dissent by certified or registered mail to the Secretary of the Company immediately after the adjournment of the meeting. Such right to dissent shall not apply to a director who voted in favor of such action. 3.15 Compensation. The board of directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation, including fees and reimbursement of expenses, paid to directors for attendance at regular or special meetings of the board of directors or any committee thereof; provided, that nothing contained herein shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Company in any other capacity or receiving compensation therefor. 7
ARTICLE FOUR: COMMITTEES 4.1 Designation. The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire board of directors, designate one or more committees. 4.2 Number; Qualification; Term. Each committee shall consist of one or more directors appointed by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire board of directors. The number of committee members may be increased or decreased from time to time by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire board of directors. Each committee member shall serve as such until the earliest of (i) the expiration of his or her term as director, (ii) his or her resignation as a committee member or as a director, or (iii) his or her removal as a committee member or as a director. 4.3 Authority. Each committee, to the extent expressly provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all of the authority of the board of directors in the management of the business and property of the Company except to the extent expressly restricted by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Company, or these bylaws. 4.4 Committee Changes. The board of directors shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, and to discharge any committee. 4.5 Alternate Members of Committees. The board of directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee. Any such alternate member may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. If no alternate committee members have been so appointed to a committee or each such alternate committee member is absent or disqualified, the member or members of such committee present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the board of directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. 4.6 Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of any committee may be held without notice at such time and place as may be designated from time to time by the committee and communicated to all members thereof. 4.7 Special Meetings. Special meetings of any committee may be held whenever called by any committee member. The committee member calling any special meeting shall cause notice of such special meeting, including therein the time and place of such special meeting, to be given to each committee member at least two days before such special meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any special meeting of any committee need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of any special meeting. 4.8 Quorum; Majority Vote. At meetings of any committee, a majority of the number of members designated by the board of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum is not present at a meeting of any committee, a majority of the members present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than an announcement at the meeting, until a 8
quorum is present. The act of a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is in attendance shall be the act of a committee, unless the act of a greater number is required by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Company, or these bylaws. 4.9 Minutes. Each committee shall cause minutes of its proceedings to be prepared and shall report the same to the board of directors upon the request of the board of directors. The minutes of the proceedings of each committee shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Company for placement in the minute books of the Company. 4.10 Responsibility. The designation of any committee and the delegation of authority to it shall not operate to relieve the board of directors or any director of any responsibility imposed upon it or such director by law. ARTICLE FIVE: NOTICE 5.1 Method. Whenever by statute, the certificate of incorporation of the Company, or these bylaws, notice is required to be given to any committee member, director, or stockholder and no provision is made as to how such notice shall be given, personal notice shall not be required and any such notice may be given (a) in writing, by mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such committee member, director, or stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the books or (in the case of a stockholder) the stock transfer records of the Company, or (b) by any other method permitted by law. Any notice required or permitted to be given by mail shall be deemed to be delivered and given at the time when the same is deposited in the United States mail as aforesaid. Any notice required or permitted to be given by overnight courier service shall be deemed to be delivered and given at the time delivered to such service with all charges prepaid and addressed as aforesaid. Any notice required or permitted to be given by telegram, telex, or telefax shall be deemed to be delivered and given at the time transmitted with all charges prepaid and addressed as aforesaid. 5.2 Waiver. Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder, director, or committee member of the Company by statute, the certificate of incorporation of the Company, or these bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. Attendance of a stockholder, director, or committee member at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where such person attends for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. ARTICLE SIX: OFFICERS 6.1 Number; Titles; Term of Office. The officers of the Company shall be a President, a Secretary, and such other officers as the board of directors may from time to time elect or appoint, including a Chairman of the Board, one or more Vice Presidents (with each Vice President to have such descriptive title, if any, as the board of directors shall determine), and a Treasurer. Each 9
officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified, until his or her death, or until he or she shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner hereinafter provided. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person. Except as may be required pursuant to any stock ownership requirements adopted by the board or any of its committees, none of the officers need be a stockholder of the Company. None of the officers need be a director of the Company or a resident of the State of Delaware. 6.2 Removal. Any officer or agent elected or appointed by the board of directors may be removed by the board of directors whenever in its judgment the best interest of the Company will be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed. Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights. 6.3 Vacancies. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Company (by death, resignation, removal, or otherwise) may be filled by the board of directors. 6.4 Authority. Officers shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the Company as are provided in these bylaws or as may be determined by resolution of the board of directors not inconsistent with these bylaws. 6.5 Compensation. The compensation, if any, of officers and agents shall be fixed from time to time by the board of directors; provided, however, that the board of directors may delegate the power to determine the compensation of any officer and agent (other than the officer to whom such power is delegated) to the Chairman of the Board or the President or to any committee of the board of directors. 6.6 Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board, if elected by the board of directors, shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors, which may include being the chief executive officer of the Company. If designated as the chief executive officer, the Chairman of the Board shall have general executive charge, management, and control of the properties and operations of the Company in the ordinary course of its business, with all such powers with respect to such properties and operations as may be reasonably incident to such responsibilities. Such officer shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the board of directors. Such officer may agree upon and execute all division and transfer orders, bonds, contracts, and other obligations in the name of the Company, and he or she may sign all certificates for shares of stock of the Company. 6.7 President. If a Chairman of the Board has not been elected or if the Chairman of the Board has been elected but has not been designated by the board of directors to be the chief executive officer of the Company, the President shall be the chief executive officer of the Company and, subject to the board of directors, he or she shall have general executive charge, management, and control of the properties and operations of the Company in the ordinary course of its business, with all such powers with respect to such properties and operations as may be reasonably incident to such responsibilities. If the Chairman of the Board has been elected and has been designated as the chief 10
executive officer of the Company, the President shall be the chief operating and administrative officer of the Company and, subject to the board of directors, shall have charge of the actual day-to-day operations and management of the Company and its property with all such powers with respect to such properties and operations as may be reasonably incident to such responsibilities. If the board of directors has not elected a Chairman of the Board or in the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, the President shall exercise all of the powers and discharge all of the duties of the Chairman of the Board. As between the Company and third parties, any action taken by the President in the performance of the duties of the Chairman of the Board shall be conclusive evidence that there is no Chairman of the Board or that the Chairman of the Board is absent or unable to act. 6.8 Vice Presidents. Each Vice President shall have such powers and duties as may be assigned to him by the board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President, and (in order of their seniority as determined by the board of directors or, in the absence of such determination, as determined by the length of time they have held the office of Vice President) shall exercise the powers of the President during that officer's absence or inability to act. As between the Company and third parties, any action taken by a Vice President in the performance of the duties of the President shall be conclusive evidence of the absence or inability to act of the President at the time such action was taken. 6.9 Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have custody of the Company's funds and securities, shall keep full and accurate account of receipts and disbursements, shall deposit all monies and valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Company in such depository or depositories as may be designated by the board of directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President. 6.10 Assistant Treasurers. Each Assistant Treasurer shall have such powers and duties as may be assigned to him by the board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President. The Assistant Treasurers (in the order of their seniority as determined by the board of directors or, in the absence of such a determination, as determined by the length of time they have held the office of Assistant Treasurer) shall exercise the powers of the Treasurer during that officer's absence or inability to act. 6.11 Secretary. Except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, the Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the board of directors in books provided for that purpose, and he or she shall attend to the giving and service of all notices. He or she may sign with the Chairman of the Board or the President, in the name of the Company, all contracts of the Company and affix the seal of the Company thereto. He or she may sign with the Chairman of the Board or the President all certificates for shares of stock of the Company, and he or she shall have charge of the certificate books, transfer books, and stock papers as the board of directors may direct, all of which shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director upon application at the office of the Company during business hours. He or she shall in general perform all duties incident to the office of the Secretary, subject to the control of the board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, and the President. 11
6.12 Assistant Secretaries. Each Assistant Secretary shall have such powers and duties as may be assigned to him by the board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President. The Assistant Secretaries (in the order of their seniority as determined by the board of directors or, in the absence of such a determination, as determined by the length of time they have held the office of Assistant Secretary) shall exercise the powers of the Secretary during that officer's absence or inability to act. 6.13 Other Officers. Each other officer elected by the board of directors and designated to be an officer of the Company shall have the title that the board of directors may prescribe and the duties that the board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President may prescribe. ARTICLE SEVEN: CERTIFICATES AND STOCKHOLDERS 7.1 Certificates for Shares. Shares of the capital stock of the Company may be certificated or uncertificated as provided by law. Certificates for shares of stock of the Company shall be in such form as shall be approved by the board of directors. The certificates shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President and also by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer. Any and all signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile and may be sealed with the seal of the Company or a facsimile thereof. If any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, such certificate may be issued by the Company with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue. The certificates shall be consecutively numbered and shall be entered in the books of the Company as they are issued and shall exhibit the holder's name and the number of shares. 7.2 Replacement of Lost or Destroyed Certificates. The board of directors may direct a new certificate or certificates to be issued in place of a certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the Company and alleged to have been lost or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate or certificates representing shares to be lost or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates the board of directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his or her legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as it shall require and/or to give the Company a bond with a surety or sureties satisfactory to the Company in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim, or expense resulting from a claim, that may be made against the Company with respect to the certificate or certificates alleged to have been lost or destroyed. 7.3 Transfer of Shares. Shares of stock of the Company shall be transferable only on the books of the Company by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives. Upon surrender to the Company or the transfer agent of the Company of a certificate representing shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment, or authority to transfer, the Company or its transfer 12
agent shall issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate, and record the transaction upon its books. 7.4 Registered Stockholders. The Company shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law. 7.5 Regulations. The board of directors shall have the power and authority to make all such rules and regulations as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer, and registration or the replacement of certificates for shares of stock of the Company. 7.6 Legends. The board of directors shall have the power and authority to provide that certificates representing shares of stock bear such legends as the board of directors deems appropriate to assure that the Company does not become liable for violations of federal or state securities laws or other applicable law. ARTICLE EIGHT: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 8.1 Dividends. Subject to provisions of law and the certificate of incorporation of the Company, dividends may be declared by the board of directors at any regular or special meeting and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of stock of the Company. Such declaration and payment shall be at the discretion of the board of directors. 8.2 Reserves. There may be created by the board of directors out of funds of the Company legally available therefor such reserve or reserves as the directors from time to time, in their discretion, consider proper to provide for contingencies, to equalize dividends, or to repair or maintain any property of the Company, or for such other purpose as the board of directors shall consider beneficial to the Company, and the board of directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created. 8.3 Books and Records. The Company shall keep correct and complete books and records of account, shall keep minutes of the proceedings of its board of directors and shall keep at its registered office or principal place of business, or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar, a record of its stockholders, giving the names and addresses of all stockholders and the number and class of the shares held by each. 8.4 Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Company shall be fixed by the board of directors; provided, that if such fiscal year is not fixed by the board of directors and the selection of the fiscal year is not expressly deferred by the board of directors, the fiscal year shall be the calendar year. 8.5 Seal. The seal of the Company shall be such as from time to time may be approved by the board of directors. 13
8.6 Resignations. Any director, committee member, or officer may resign by giving written notice to the board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if no time is specified therein, immediately upon its receipt. Unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. 8.7 Securities of Other Corporations. The Chairman of the Board, the President, or any Vice President of the Company shall have the power and authority to transfer, endorse for transfer, vote, consent, or take any other action with respect to any securities of another issuer which may be held or owned by the Company and to make, execute, and deliver any waiver, proxy, or consent with respect to any such securities. 8.8 Telephone Meetings. Members of the board of directors, and members of a committee of the board of directors, may participate in and hold a meeting of such board of directors or committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this section shall constitute presence in person at such meeting, except where a person participates in the meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. 8.9 Action Without a Meeting. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation of the Company or by these bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the board of directors, or of any committee of the board of directors, may be taken without a meeting if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by all the directors or all the committee members, as the case may be, entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter thereof, and such consent shall have the same force and effect as a vote of such directors or committee members, as the case may be, and may be stated as such in any certificate or document filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware or in any certificate delivered to any person. Such consent or consents shall be filed with the minutes of proceedings of the board or committee, as the case may be. 8.10 Invalid Provisions. If any part of these bylaws shall be held invalid or inoperative for any reason, the remaining parts, so far as it is possible and reasonable, shall remain valid and operative. 8.11 Mortgages, etc. With respect to any deed, deed of trust, mortgage, or other instrument executed by the Company through its duly authorized officer or officers, the attestation to such execution by the Secretary of the Company shall not be necessary to constitute such deed, deed of trust, mortgage, or other instrument a valid and binding obligation against the Company unless the resolutions, if any, of the board of directors authorizing such execution expressly state that such attestation is necessary. 8.12 Headings. The headings used in these bylaws have been inserted for administrative convenience only and do not constitute matter to be construed in interpretation. 14
8.13 References. Whenever herein the singular number is used, the same shall include the plural when appropriate, and words referring to persons of one sex shall include references to persons of the other sex when appropriate. 8.14 Amendments. These bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed or new bylaws may be adopted by the board of directors at any regular meeting of the board of directors or at any special meeting of the board of directors if notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal, or adoption of new bylaws be contained in the notice of such special meeting. These bylaws may also be altered, amended, or repealed or new bylaws may be adopted upon the vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares of stock then entitled to vote upon the election of directors at any regular meeting of the stockholders or at any special meeting of the stockholders if notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal, or adoption of new bylaws be contained in the notice of such special meeting. The undersigned, the Secretary of the Company, hereby certifies that the foregoing amended and restated bylaws were adopted by unanimous vote of the directors of the Company as of November 15, 2006. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY By: /s/ Mark H. Kleinman ------------------------------------------ Mark H. Kleinman Secretary 15

Exhibit 10.1 PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT This Agreement ("Agreement") is made and entered into as of the 15th day of November, 2006, by and between Pioneer Natural Resources Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Scott D. Sheffield ("Indemnitee"). RECITALS A. Highly competent and experienced persons are reluctant to serve corporations as directors, executive officers or in other capacities unless they are provided with adequate protection through insurance and indemnification against claims and actions against them arising out of their service to and activities on behalf of the Company. B. The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that the inability to attract and retain such persons would be detrimental to the best interests of the Company and its stockholders and that the Company should act to assure such persons that there will be increased certainty of such protection in the future. C. The Board has also determined that it is reasonable, prudent and necessary for the Company, in addition to purchasing and maintaining directors' and officers' liability insurance (or otherwise providing for adequate arrangements of self-insurance), contractually to obligate itself to indemnify such persons to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law so that they will serve or continue to serve the Company free from undue concern that they will not be adequately protected. D. Indemnitee is willing to serve, continue to serve and to take on additional service for or on behalf of the Company on the condition that Indemnitee be so indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by law. E. Article Twelfth of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company provides for indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by law. In consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants herein contained, and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: 1
ARTICLE I Certain Definitions As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following respective meanings (whether singular or plural): "Acquiring Person" means any Person other than (i) the Company, (ii) any of the Company's Subsidiaries, (iii) any employee benefit plan of the Company or of a Subsidiary of the Company or of a Company owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, or (iv) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or of a Subsidiary of the Company or of a Company owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company. "Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) The acquisition by any Person of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 40% or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this Subparagraph (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (D) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (iii) below; or (ii) Members of the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or (iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or an acquisition of assets of another corporation (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their 2
ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or the corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 40% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership results solely from ownership of the Company that existed prior to the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or (iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. "Claim" means an actual or threatened claim or request for relief which was, is or may be made by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in, or by reason of any event or occurrence related to, Indemnitee's Corporate Status. "Corporate Status" means the status of a person who is, becomes or was a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or is, becomes or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent, fiduciary or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise. For purposes of this Agreement, the Company agrees that Indemnitee's service on behalf of or with respect to any Subsidiary of the Company shall be deemed to be at the request of the Company. "DGCL" means the Delaware General Corporation Law and any successor statute thereto, as either of them may from time to time be amended. "Disinterested Director" with respect to any request by Indemnitee for indemnification hereunder, means a director of the Company who at the time of the vote is not a named defendant or respondent in the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by Indemnitee. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. "Expenses" means all attorneys' fees and disbursements, retainers, accountant's fees and disbursements, private investigator fees and disbursements, court costs, transcript costs, fees and expenses of experts, witness fees and expenses, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees and all other disbursements, costs or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending (including affirmative defenses and counterclaims), preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, being or preparing to be a witness in, or participating in or preparing to participate in (including on appeal) a Proceeding and all interest or finance charges attributable to any 3
thereof. Should any payments by the Company under this Agreement be determined to be subject to any federal, state or local income or excise tax, "Expenses" shall also include such amounts as are necessary to place Indemnitee in the same after-tax position (after giving effect to all applicable taxes) as Indemnitee would have been in had no such tax been determined to apply to such payments. "Incumbent Board" means the individuals who, as of the date of this Agreement, constitute the Board and any other individual who becomes a director of the Company after that date and whose election or appointment by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board. "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither contemporaneously is, nor in the five years theretofore has been, retained to represent: (a) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other than as Independent Counsel under this Agreement or similar agreements), (b) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder or (c) the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 5% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities (other than, in each such case, with respect to matters concerning the rights of Indemnitee under this Agreement, or of other indemnitees under similar indemnification agreements). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement. "Independent Directors" means the directors on the Board that are independent directors as defined in Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual or successor provision, or, if the Company's common stock is not then quoted on the NYSE, that qualify as independent, disinterested, or a similar term as defined in the rules of the principal securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which the Company's common stock is then listed or quoted. "Person" means any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act). "Potential Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any Person shall have announced publicly an intention to effect a Change in Control, or commenced any action (such as the commencement of a tender offer for the Company's Common Stock or the solicitation of proxies for the election of any of the Company's directors) that, if successful, could reasonably be expected to result in the occurrence of a Change in Control; (ii) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; or 4
(iii) any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Potential Change of Control. "Proceeding" means any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, arbitration, investigation, inquiry, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, administrative or legislative hearing, or any other proceeding (including, without limitation, any securities laws action, suit, arbitration, alternative dispute resolution mechanism, hearing or procedure) whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative or investigative and whether or not based upon events occurring, or actions taken, before the date hereof, and any appeal in or related to any such action, suit, arbitration, investigation, hearing or proceeding and any inquiry or investigation (including discovery), whether conducted by or in the right of the Company or any other Person, that Indemnitee in good faith believes could lead to any such action, suit, arbitration, alternative dispute resolution mechanism, hearing or other proceeding or appeal thereof. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the voting power of the voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by that Person. "Voting Securities" means any securities that vote generally in the election of directors, in the admission of general partners, or in the selection of any other similar governing body. ARTICLE II Services by Indemnitee Indemnitee is serving as a officer of the Company. Indemnitee may from time to time also agree to serve, as the Company may request from time to time, in another capacity for the Company (including another officer or director position) or as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent, fiduciary or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise. Indemnitee and the Company each acknowledge that they have entered into this Agreement as a means of inducing Indemnitee to serve, or continue to serve, the Company in such capacities. Indemnitee may at any time and for any reason resign from such position or positions (subject to any other contractual obligation or any obligation imposed by operation of law). The Company shall have no obligation under this Agreement to continue Indemnitee in any such position or positions. ARTICLE III Indemnification Section 3.1 General. Subject to the provisions set forth in Article IV, the Company shall indemnify, and advance Expenses to, Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law in effect on the date hereof and to such greater extent as applicable law may hereafter from time to time permit. The other provisions set forth in this Agreement are provided in addition to and as 5
a means of furtherance and implementation of, and not in limitation of, the obligations expressed in this Article III. No requirement, condition to or limitation of any right to indemnification or to advancement of Expenses under this Article III shall in any way limit the rights of Indemnitee under Article VII. Section 3.2 Additional Indemnity of the Company. Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 3.2 if, by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in, or by reason of any event or occurrence related to, Indemnitee's Corporate Status, Indemnitee is, was or becomes, or is threatened to be made, a party to, or witness or other participant in any Proceeding. Pursuant to this Section 3.2, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against any and all Expenses, judgments, penalties (including excise or similar taxes), fines and amounts paid in settlement (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of any such Expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any Claim, issue or matter therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Company under this Section 3.2 shall be subject to the condition that no determination (which, in any case in which Independent Counsel is involved, shall be in a form of a written opinion) shall have been made pursuant to Article IV that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. Nothing in this Section 3.2 shall limit the benefits of Section 3.1 or any other Section hereunder. Section 3.3 Advancement of Expenses. The Company shall pay all reasonable Expenses incurred by, or in the case of retainers to be incurred by, or on behalf of Indemnitee (or, if applicable, reimburse Indemnitee for any and all Expenses reasonably incurred by Indemnitee and previously paid by Indemnitee) in connection with any Claim or Proceeding, whether brought by the Company or otherwise, in advance of any determination respecting entitlement to indemnification pursuant to Article IV hereof within 10 days after the receipt by the Company of (a) a written request from Indemnitee requesting such payment or payments from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding, and (b) a written affirmation from Indemnitee of Indemnitee's good faith belief that Indemnitee has met the standard of conduct necessary for Indemnitee to be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. Any such payment by the Company is referred to in this Agreement as an "Expense Advance." In connection with any request for an Expense Advance, if requested by the Company, Indemnitee or Indemnitee's counsel shall also submit an affidavit stating that the Expenses incurred were, or in the case of retainers to be incurred are, reasonable. Any dispute as to the reasonableness of any Expense shall not delay an Expense Advance by the Company, and the Company agrees that any such dispute shall be resolved only upon the disposition or conclusion of the underlying Claim against Indemnitee. Indemnitee hereby undertakes and agrees that Indemnitee will reimburse and repay the Company without interest for any Expense Advances to the extent that it shall ultimately be determined (in a final adjudication by a court from which there is no further right of appeal or in a final adjudication of an arbitration pursuant to Section 5.1 if Indemnitee elects to seek such arbitration) that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company against such Expenses. Indemnitee shall not be required to provide collateral or otherwise secure the undertaking and agreement described in the prior sentence. 6
Section 3.4 Indemnification for Additional Expenses. The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against any and all costs and expenses (of the types described in the definition of Expenses in Article I) and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall (within two business days of that request) advance those costs and expenses to Indemnitee, that are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any claim asserted against, or action brought by, Indemnitee for (i) indemnification or an Expense Advance by the Company under this Agreement or any other agreement or provision of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws now or hereafter in effect relating to any Claim or Proceeding, (ii) recovery under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company, or (iii) enforcement of, or claims for breaches of, any provision of this Agreement, in each of the foregoing situations regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to that indemnification, advance expense payment, insurance recovery, enforcement, or damage claim, as the case may be and regardless of whether the nature of the proceeding with respect to such matters is judicial, by arbitration, or otherwise. Section 3.5 Partial Indemnity. If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of the Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties, and amounts paid in settlement of a Claim or Proceeding but not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled. Moreover, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any or all Claims or Proceedings, or in defense of any issue or matter therein, including dismissal without prejudice, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith. ARTICLE IV Procedure for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification Section 4.1 Request by Indemnitee. To obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to Indemnitee and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification. The Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board in writing that Indemnitee has requested indemnification. Section 4.2 Determination of Request. Upon written request by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of Section 4.1 hereof, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to whether Indemnitee is permitted under applicable law to be indemnified shall be made in accordance with the terms of Section 4.5, in the specific case as follows: 7
(a) If a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control shall have occurred, by Independent Counsel (selected in accordance with Section 4.3) in a written opinion to the Board and Indemnitee, unless Indemnitee shall request that such determination be made by the Board, or a committee of the Board, in which case by the person or persons or in the manner provided for in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (b) below; or (b) If a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control shall not have occurred, (i) by the Board by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors even though less than a quorum of the Board, or (ii) by a majority vote of a committee solely of two or more Disinterested Directors designated to act in the matter by a majority vote of all Disinterested Directors even though less than a quorum of the Board, or (iii) by Independent Counsel selected by the Board or a committee of the Board by a vote as set forth in clauses (i) or (ii) of this paragraph (b), or if such vote is not obtainable or such a committee cannot be established, by a majority vote of all directors, or (iv) if Indemnitee and the Company agree, by the stockholders of the Company in a vote that excludes the shares held by directors who are not Disinterested Directors. If it is so determined that Indemnitee is permitted to be indemnified under applicable law, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within 10 days after such determination. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall require that any determination be made under this Section 4.2 prior to the disposition or conclusion of a Claim or Proceeding against Indemnitee; provided, however, that Expense Advances shall continue to be made by the Company pursuant to, and to the extent required by, the provisions of Article III. Indemnitee shall cooperate with the person or persons making such determination with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such person upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information that is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and that is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination. Any costs or expenses (including attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the person or persons making such determination shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification), and the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee therefrom. Section 4.3 Independent Counsel. If a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control shall not have occurred and the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by (a) a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum of the Board or (b) if there are no Disinterested Directors, by a majority vote of the Board, and the Company shall give written notice to Indemnitee, within 10 days after receipt by the Company of Indemnitee's request for indemnification, specifying the identity and address of the Independent Counsel so selected. If a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control shall have occurred and the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee, and Indemnitee shall give written notice to the Company, within 10 days after submission of Indemnitee's request for indemnification, specifying the identity and address of the Independent Counsel so selected (unless Indemnitee shall request that such selection be made by the 8
Disinterested Directors or a committee of the Board, in which event the Company shall give written notice to Indemnitee within 10 days after receipt of Indemnitee's request for the Board or a committee of the Disinterested Directors to make such selection, specifying the identity and address of the Independent Counsel so selected). In either event, (i) such notice to Indemnitee or the Company, as the case may be, shall be accompanied by a written affirmation of the Independent Counsel so selected that it satisfies the requirements of the definition of "Independent Counsel" in Article I and that it agrees to serve in such capacity and (ii) Indemnitee or the Company, as the case may be, may, within seven days after such written notice of selection shall have been given, deliver to the Company or to Indemnitee, as the case may be, a written objection to such selection. Any objection to selection of Independent Counsel pursuant to this Section 4.3 may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of the definition of "Independent Counsel" in Article I, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion. If such written objection is timely made, the Independent Counsel so selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until a court of competent jurisdiction (the "Court") has determined that such objection is without merit. In the event of a timely written objection to a choice of Independent Counsel, the party originally selecting the Independent Counsel shall have seven days to make an alternate selection of Independent Counsel and to give written notice of such selection to the other party, after which time such other party shall have five days to make a written objection to such alternate selection. If, within 30 days after submission of Indemnitee's request for indemnification pursuant to Section 4.1, no Independent Counsel shall have been selected and not objected to, either the Company or Indemnitee may petition the Court for resolution of any objection that shall have been made by the Company or Indemnitee to the other's selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the Court or by such other person as the Court shall designate, and the person with respect to whom an objection is so resolved or the person so appointed shall act as Independent Counsel under Section 4.2. The Company shall pay any and all reasonable fees and expenses incurred by such Independent Counsel in connection with acting pursuant to Section 4.2, and the Company shall pay all reasonable fees and expenses incident to the procedures of this Section 4.3, regardless of the manner in which such Independent Counsel was selected or appointed. Upon the due commencement of any judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to Section 5.1, Independent Counsel shall be discharged and relieved of any further responsibility in such capacity (subject to the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing). Section 4.4 Establishment of a Trust. In the event of a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control, the Company shall, upon written request by Indemnitee, create a trust for the benefit of Indemnitee (the "Trust") and from time to time upon written request of Indemnitee shall fund the Trust in an amount sufficient to satisfy any and all Expenses reasonably anticipated at the time of each such request to be incurred in connection with investigating, preparing for, and defending any Claim, and any and all judgments, fines, penalties, and settlement amounts of any and all Claims from time to time actually paid or claimed, reasonably anticipated, or proposed to be paid. The amount to be deposited in the Trust pursuant to the foregoing funding obligation shall be determined by the Independent Counsel (or other person(s) making the determination of whether Indemnitee is permitted to be indemnified by applicable law). The terms of the Trust shall provide that, upon a Change in Control, (i) the Trust shall not be revoked or the principal thereof invaded, without the 9
written consent of Indemnitee; (ii) the trustee of the Trust shall advance, within ten business days of a request by Indemnitee, any and all reasonable Expenses to Indemnitee, any required determination concerning the reasonableness of the Expenses to be made by the Independent Counsel (and Indemnitee hereby agrees to reimburse the Trust under the circumstances in which Indemnitee would be required to reimburse the Company for Expenses Advances under Section 3.3 of this Agreement); (iii) the Trust shall continue to be funded by the Company in accordance with the funding obligation set forth above; (iv) the trustee of the Trust shall promptly pay to Indemnitee all amounts for which Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement; and (v) all unexpended funds in the Trust shall revert to the Company upon a final determination by the Independent Counsel or a court of competent jurisdiction, as the case may be, that Indemnitee has been fully indemnified under the terms of this Agreement. The trustee of the Trust shall be chosen by Indemnitee and shall be an institution that is not affiliated with Indemnitee. Nothing in this Section 4.4 shall relieve the Company of any of its obligations under this Agreement. Section 4.5 Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings. (a) Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Agreement upon submission of a request for indemnification under Section 4.1, and the Company shall have the burden of proof in overcoming that presumption in reaching a determination contrary to that presumption. Such presumption shall be used by Independent Counsel (or other person or persons determining entitlement to indemnification) as a basis for a determination of entitlement to indemnification unless the Company provides information sufficient to overcome such presumption by clear and convincing evidence or unless the investigation, review and analysis of Independent Counsel (or such other person or persons) convinces Independent Counsel by clear and convincing evidence that the presumption should not apply. (b) If the person or persons empowered or selected under Article IV of this Agreement to determine whether Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification shall not have made a determination within 60 days after receipt by the Company of the request by Indemnitee therefor, the requisite determination of entitlement to indemnification shall be deemed to have been made and Indemnitee shall be entitled to such indemnification; provided, however, that such 60-day period may be extended for a reasonable time, not to exceed an additional 30 days, if the person making the determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification in good faith requires such additional time for the obtaining or evaluating of documentation and/or information relating to such determination; and provided, further, that the 60-day limitation set forth in this Section 4.5(b) shall not apply and such period shall be extended as necessary (i) if within 30 days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification under Section 4.1 Indemnitee and the Company have agreed, and the Board has resolved to submit such determination to the stockholders of the Company pursuant to Section 4.2(b) for their consideration at an annual meeting of stockholders to be held within 90 days after such agreement and such determination is made thereat, or a special meeting of stockholders is called within 30 days after such receipt for the purpose of 10
making such determination, such meeting is held for such purpose within 60 days after having been so called and such determination is made thereat, or (ii) if the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 4.2(a) of this Agreement, in which case the applicable period shall be as set forth in Section 5.1(c). (c) The termination of any Proceeding or of any Claim, issue or matter by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement) by itself adversely affect the rights of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that Indemnitee failed to meet any particular standard of conduct, that Indemnitee had any particular belief, or that a court has determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law. Indemnitee shall be deemed to have been found liable in respect of any Claim, issue or matter only after Indemnitee shall have been so adjudged by the Court after exhaustion of all appeals therefrom. ARTICLE V Certain Remedies of Indemnitee Section 5.1 Indemnitee Entitled to Adjudication in an Appropriate Court. If (a) a determination is made pursuant to Article IV that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement; (b) there has been any failure by the Company to make timely payment or advancement of any amounts due hereunder (including, without limitation, any Expense Advances); or (c) the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 4.2 and such determination shall not have been made and delivered in a written opinion within 90 days after the latest of (i) such Independent Counsel's being appointed, (ii) the overruling by the Court of objections to such counsel's selection, or (iii) expiration of all periods for the Company or Indemnitee to object to such counsel's selection, Indemnitee shall be entitled to commence an action seeking an adjudication in the Court of Indemnitee's entitlement to such indemnification or advancements due hereunder, including, without limitation, Expense Advances. Alternatively, Indemnitee, at Indemnitee's option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the commercial arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association. Indemnitee shall commence such action seeking an adjudication or an award in arbitration within 180 days following the date on which Indemnitee first has the right to commence such action pursuant to this Section 5.1, or such right shall expire. The Company agrees not to oppose Indemnitee's right to seek any such adjudication or award in arbitration. Section 5.2 Adverse Determination Not to Affect any Judicial Proceeding. If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Article IV that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Article V shall be conducted in all respects as a de novo trial or arbitration on the merits, and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of such initial adverse determination. In any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Article V, 11
Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as the case may be, under this Agreement and the Company shall have the burden of proof in overcoming such presumption and to show by clear and convincing evidence that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as the case may be. Section 5.3 Company Bound by Determination Favorable to Indemnitee in any Judicial Proceeding or Arbitration. If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Article IV that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be irrevocably bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Article V, and shall be precluded from asserting that such determination has not been made or that the procedure by which such determination was made is not valid, binding and enforceable. Section 5.4 Company Bound by the Agreement. The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Article V that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement. ARTICLE VI Contribution Section 6.1 Contribution Payment. To the extent the indemnification provided for under any provision of this Agreement is determined (in the manner hereinabove provided) not to be permitted under applicable law, then in the event Indemnitee was, is, or becomes a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, a Proceeding by reason of (or arising in part out of) Indemnitee's Corporate Status, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount of any and all Expenses, judgments, fines, or penalties assessed against or incurred or paid by Indemnitee on account of such Proceeding and any and all amounts paid in settlement of that Proceeding (including all interest, assessments, and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties, or amounts paid in settlement) for which such indemnification is not permitted ("Contribution Amounts"), in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault with respect to the subject matter of the Proceeding giving rise to the Contribution Amounts of Indemnitee, on the one hand, and of the Company and any and all other parties (including officers and directors of the Company other than Indemnitee) who may be at fault with respect to such matter (collectively, including the Company, the "Third Parties") on the other hand. Section 6.2 Relative Fault. The relative fault of the Third Parties and Indemnitee shall be determined (i) by reference to the relative fault of Indemnitee as determined by the court or other governmental agency assessing the Contribution Amounts or (ii) to the extent such court or other governmental agency does not apportion relative fault, by the Independent Counsel (or such other party which makes a determination under Article IV) after giving effect 12
to, among other things, the relative intent, knowledge, access to information, and opportunity to prevent or correct the subject matter of the Proceedings and other relevant equitable considerations of each party. The Company and Indemnitee agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6.2 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 6.2. ARTICLE VII Miscellaneous Section 7.1 Non-Exclusivity. The rights of Indemnitee to receive indemnification and advancement of Expenses under this Agreement shall be in addition to, and shall not be deemed exclusive of, any other rights Indemnitee shall under the DGCL or other applicable law, the charter or bylaws of the Company, any other agreement, vote of stockholders or a resolution of directors, or otherwise. No amendment or alteration of the charter or bylaws of the Company or any provision thereof shall adversely affect Indemnitee's rights hereunder and such rights shall be in addition to any rights Indemnitee may have under the charter, bylaws and the DGCL or other applicable law. To the extent that there is a change in the DGCL or other applicable law (whether by statute or judicial decision) that allows greater indemnification by agreement than would be afforded currently under the Company's charter or bylaws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by virtue of this Agreement the greater benefit so afforded by such change. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of the DGCL that adversely affects any right of Indemnitee shall be prospective only and shall not limit or eliminate any such right with respect to any Proceeding involving any occurrence or alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that took place before such amendment or repeal. Section 7.2 Insurance and Subrogation. (a) To the extent that the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing liability insurance for directors, officers, employees, agents or fiduciaries of the Company or for individuals serving at the request of the Company as directors, officers, partners, venturers, proprietors, trustees, employees, agents, fiduciaries or similar functionaries of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any such director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary under such policy or policies. (b) In the event of any payment by the Company under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights. 13
(c) The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under the Company's charter or bylaws or any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise. (d) If Indemnitee is a director of the Company, the Company will advise the Board of any proposed material reduction in the coverage for Indemnitee to be provided by the Company's directors' and officers' liability insurance policy and will not effect such a reduction with respect to Indemnitee without the prior approval of at least 80% of the Independent Directors of the Company. (e) If Indemnitee is a director of the Company during the term of this Agreement and if Indemnitee ceases to be a director of the Company for any reason, the Company shall procure a run-off directors' and officers' liability insurance policy with respect to claims arising from facts or events that occurred before the time Indemnitee ceased to be a director of the Company and covering Indemnitee, which policy, without any lapse in coverage, will provide coverage for a period of six years after the time Indemnitee ceased to be a director of the Company and will provide coverage (including amount and type of coverage and size of deductibles) that are substantially comparable to the Company's directors' and officers' liability insurance policy that was most protective of Indemnitee in the 12 months preceding the time Indemnitee ceased to be a director of the Company; provided, however, that: (i) this obligation shall be suspended during the period immediately following the time Indemnitee ceases to be a director of the Company if and only so long as the Company has a directors' and officers' liability insurance policy in effect covering Indemnitee for such claims that, if it were a run-off policy, would meet or exceed the foregoing standards, but in any event this suspension period shall end when a Change in Control occurs; and (ii) no later than the end of the suspension period provided in the preceding clause (i) (whether because of failure to have a policy meeting the foregoing standards or because a Change in Control occurs), the Company shall procure a run-off directors' and officers' liability insurance policy meeting the foregoing standards and lasting for the remainder of the six-year period. (f) Notwithstanding the preceding clause (e) including the suspension provisions therein, if Indemnitee ceases to be an officer or director of the Company in connection with a Change in Control or at or during the one-year period following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Company shall procure a run-off directors' and officers' liability insurance policy covering Indemnitee and meeting the foregoing standards in clause (e) and lasting for a six-year period upon the Indemnitee's ceasing to be an officer or director of the Company in such circumstances. 14
Section 7.3 Self Insurance of the Company; Other Arrangements. The parties hereto recognize that the Company may, but except as provided in Section 7.2(d) and Section 7.2(e) is not required to, procure or maintain insurance or other similar arrangements, at its expense, to protect itself and any person, including Indemnitee, who is or was a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent, fiduciary or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss asserted against or incurred by such person, in such a capacity or arising out of the person's status as such a person, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense or liability or loss. Except as provided in Section 7.2(d) and Section 7.2(e), in considering the cost and availability of such insurance, the Company (through the exercise of the business judgment of its directors and officers) may, from time to time, purchase insurance which provides for certain (i) deductibles, (ii) limits on payments required to be made by the insurer, or (iii) coverage which may not be as comprehensive as that previously included in insurance purchased by the Company or its predecessors. The purchase of insurance with deductibles, limits on payments and coverage exclusions, even if in the best interest of the Company, may not be in the best interest of Indemnitee. As to the Company, purchasing insurance with deductibles, limits on payments and coverage exclusions is similar to the Company's practice of self-insurance in other areas. In order to protect Indemnitee who would otherwise be more fully or entirely covered under such policies, the Company shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, indemnify and hold Indemnitee harmless to the extent (i) of such deductibles, (ii) of amounts exceeding payments required to be made by an insurer, or (iii) of amounts that prior policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance held by the Company or its predecessors have provided for payment to Indemnitee, if by reason of Indemnitee's Corporate Status Indemnitee is or is threatened to be made a party to any Proceeding. The obligation of the Company in the preceding sentence shall be without regard to whether the Company would otherwise be required to indemnify such officer or director under the other provisions of this Agreement, or under any law, agreement, vote of stockholders or directors or other arrangement. Without limiting the generality of any provision of this Agreement, the procedures in Article IV hereof shall, to the extent applicable, be used for determining entitlement to indemnification under this Section 7.3. Section 7.4 Certain Settlement Provisions. The Company shall have no obligation to indemnify Indemnitee under this Agreement for amounts paid in settlement of a Proceeding or Claim without the Company's prior written consent. The Company shall not settle any Proceeding or Claim in any manner that would impose any fine or other obligation on Indemnitee without Indemnitee's prior written consent. Neither the Company nor Indemnitee shall unreasonably withhold their consent to any proposed settlement. Section 7.5 Duration of Agreement. This Agreement shall continue for so long as Indemnitee serves as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or, at the request of the Company, as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent, fiduciary or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint 15
venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, and thereafter shall survive until and terminate upon the later to occur of: (a) the expiration of 20 years after the latest date that Indemnitee shall have ceased to serve in any such capacity; (b) the final termination of all pending Proceedings in respect of which Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder and of any proceeding commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Article IV relating thereto; or (c) the expiration of all statutes of limitation applicable to possible Claims arising out of Indemnitee's Corporate Status. Section 7.6 Notice by Each Party. Indemnitee shall promptly notify the Company in writing upon being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document or communication relating to any Proceeding or Claim for which Indemnitee may be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder; provided, however, that any failure of Indemnitee to so notify the Company shall not adversely affect Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement except to the extent the Company shall have been materially prejudiced as a direct result of such failure. The Company shall promptly notify Indemnitee in writing as to the pendency of any Proceeding or Claim that may involve a claim against Indemnitee for which Indemnitee may be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder. Section 7.7 Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by a written instrument executed by or on behalf of each of the parties hereto. Section 7.8 Waivers. The observance of any term of this Agreement may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively) by the party entitled to enforce such term only by a writing signed by the party against which such waiver is to be asserted. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, no delay on the part of any party hereto in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any waiver on the part of any party hereto of any right, power or privilege hereunder operate as a waiver of any other right, power or privilege hereunder nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege hereunder. Section 7.9 Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the documents expressly referred to herein constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters covered hereby, and any other prior or contemporaneous oral or written understandings or agreements with respect to the matters covered hereby are expressly superseded by this Agreement. Section 7.10 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement (including any provision within a single section, paragraph or sentence) or the application of such provision to any Person or circumstance, shall be judicially declared to be invalid, unenforceable or void, such decision will not have the effect of invalidating or voiding the remainder of this Agreement or affect the application of such provision to other Persons or circumstances, it being the intent and agreement of the parties that this Agreement shall be deemed amended by modifying such provision to the extent necessary to render it valid, legal 16
and enforceable while preserving its intent, or if such modification is not possible, by substituting therefor another provision that is valid, legal and unenforceable and that achieves the same objective. Any such finding of invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent the enforcement of such provision in any other jurisdiction to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. Section 7.11 Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon (a) transmitter's confirmation of a receipt of a facsimile transmission if during normal business hours of the recipient, otherwise on the next business day, (b) confirmed delivery of a standard overnight courier or when delivered by hand or (c) the expiration of five business days after the date mailed by certified or registered mail (return receipt requested), postage prepaid, to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a party as shall be specified by like notice): If to the Company, to it at: Pioneer Natural Resources Company 5205 North O'Connor Blvd. Suite 900 Irving, Texas 75039-3746 Attn: Corporate Secretary Facsimile: (972) 969-3552 If to Indemnitee, to Indemnitee at: 5205 North O'Connor Blvd. Suite 900 Irving, Texas 75039-3746 or to such other address or to such other individuals as any party shall have last designated by notice to the other parties. All notices and other communications given to any party in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given when delivered or sent to the intended recipient thereof in accordance with and as provided in the provisions of this Section 7.11. Section 7.12 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to the principles of conflict of laws. Section 7.13 Certain Construction Rules. (a) The article and section headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, unless otherwise provided to the contrary, (1) all references to days shall be deemed references to calendar days and (2) any reference to a "Section" or "Article" shall be deemed to refer to a section or article of this 17
Agreement. The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import referring to this Agreement refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." Unless otherwise specifically provided for herein, the term "or" shall not be deemed to be exclusive. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun used in this Agreement shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plural and vice versa. (b) For purposes of this Agreement, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to any employee benefit plan; references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, nominee, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in the interests of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interest of the Company" for purposes of this Agreement and the DGCL. Section 7.14 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument, notwithstanding that both parties are not signatories to the original or same counterpart. Section 7.15 Certain Persons Not Entitled to Indemnification. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement (but subject to Section 7.1), Indemnitee shall not be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses pursuant to the terms of this Agreement with respect to any Proceeding or any Claim, issue or matter therein, brought or made by Indemnitee against the Company, except as specifically provided in Article III, Article IV or Section 7.3. In addition, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement: (a) To indemnify Indemnitee if (and to the extent that) a final decision by a court or arbitration body having jurisdiction in the matter shall determine that such indemnification is not lawful; or (b) To indemnify Indemnitee for the payment to the Company of profits pursuant to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, or Expenses incurred by Indemnitee for Proceedings in connection with such payment under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Section 7.16 Indemnification for Negligence, Gross Negligence, etc. Without limiting the generality of any other provision hereunder, it is the express intent of this Agreement that Indemnitee be indemnified and Expenses be advanced regardless of Indemnitee's acts of negligence, gross negligence, intentional or 18
willful misconduct to the extent that indemnification and advancement of Expenses is allowed pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and under applicable law. Section 7.17 Mutual Acknowledgments. Both the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that in certain instances, applicable law (including applicable federal law that may preempt or override applicable state law) or public policy may prohibit the Company from indemnifying the directors, officers, employees, agents or fiduciaries of the Company under this Agreement or otherwise. For example, the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has taken the position that indemnification of directors, officers and controlling Persons of the Company for liabilities arising under federal securities laws is against public policy and, therefore, unenforceable. Indemnitee understands and acknowledges that the Company has undertaken or may be required in the future to undertake with the Securities and Exchange Commission to submit the question of indemnification to a court in certain circumstances for a determination of the Company's right under public policy to indemnify Indemnitee. In addition, the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that federal law prohibits indemnifications for certain violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Section 7.18 Enforcement. The Company agrees that its execution of this Agreement shall constitute a stipulation by which it shall be irrevocably bound in any court or arbitration in which a proceeding by Indemnitee for enforcement of Indemnitee's rights hereunder shall have been commenced, continued or appealed, that its obligations set forth in this Agreement are unique and special, and that failure of the Company to comply with the provisions of this Agreement will cause irreparable and irremediable injury to Indemnitee, for which a remedy at law will be inadequate. As a result, in addition to any other right or remedy Indemnitee may have at law or in equity with respect to breach of this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be entitled to injunctive or mandatory relief directing specific performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement. The Company agrees not to seek, and agrees to waive any requirement for the securing or posting of, a bond in connection with Indemnitee's seeking or obtaining such relief. Section 7.19 Successors and Assigns. All of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives. Section 7.20 Period of Limitations. No legal action shall be brought and no cause of action shall be asserted by or on behalf of the Company or any affiliate of the Company against Indemnitee or Indemnitee's spouse, heirs, executors, or personal or legal representatives after the expiration of one year from the date of accrual of that cause of action, and any claim or cause of action of the Company or its affiliate shall be extinguished and deemed released unless asserted by the timely filing of a legal action within that one-year period; provided, however, that for any claim based on Indemnitee's breach of fiduciary duties to the Company or its stockholders, the period set forth in the preceding sentence shall be three years instead of one year; and provided, further, that, if any shorter period of limitations is otherwise applicable to any such cause of action, the shorter period shall govern. 19
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered to be effective as of the date first above written. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY By: /s/ Mark S. Berg ------------------------------------------------- Name: Mark S. Berg Title: Executive Vice President and General Counsel INDEMNITEE: /s/ Scott D. Sheffield ----------------------------------------------------- Scott D. Sheffield 20
Schedule I 1. The Company entered into an Indemnification Agreement with each of Timothy L. Dove, A.R. Alameddine, Mark S. Berg, Chris J. Cheatwood, Richard P. Dealy, William F. Hannes, Danny L. Kellum and Darin G. Holderness that is otherwise identical to the one entered into with Scott D. Sheffield. 2. The Company entered into an Indemnification Agreement with each of James R. Baroffio, Edison C. Buchanan, R. Hartwell Gardner, Linda K. Lawson, Andrew D. Lundquist, Charles E. Ramsey, Jr., Frank A. Risch, Mark S. Sexton, Robert A. Solberg and Jim A. Watson, which varied from Exhibit 10.1 by modifying Section 7.15 to provide, in its entirety, the following: Section 7.15 Certain Persons Not Entitled to Indemnification. The Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement: (a) To indemnify Indemnitee if (and to the extent that) a final decision by a court or arbitration body having jurisdiction in the matter shall determine that such indemnification is not lawful; or (b) To indemnify Indemnitee for the payment to the Company of profits pursuant to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, or Expenses incurred by Indemnitee for Proceedings in connection with such payment under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.


