FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20070312161419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 12, 2007 ------------------------ PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-13245 75-2702753 (State or other (Commission (I.R.S. Employer jurisdiction of incorporation) File Number) Identification Number) 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd 75039 Suite 200 (Zip code) Irving, Texas (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 444-9001 Not applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement On March 12, 2007, Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") executed a seventh supplemental indenture (the "Seventh Supplemental Indenture") with Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Original Trustee"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as series trustee (the "Series Trustee"), under the Indenture, dated as of January 13, 1998, between the Company and the Original Trustee, as successor trustee to The Bank of New York. The Seventh Supplemental Indenture is attached as Exhibit 4.1, and the terms and conditions thereof are incorporated herein by reference. The Form of the Company's 6.65% Senior Notes due 2017 issued pursuant to the Seventh Supplemental Indenture is attached as Exhibit 4.2, and the terms and conditions thereof are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits (d) Exhibits 4.1 - Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2007, among the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A, as original trustee under the indenture, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as series trustee, with respect to that indenture, dated as of January 13, 1998, between the Company and Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York. 4.2 - Form of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2017 of the Company.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY /s/ Darin G. Holderness --------------------------------- Darin G. Holderness Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: March 12, 2007
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Exhibit Title 4.1(a) - Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2007, among the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A, as original trustee under the indenture, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as series trustee, with respect to that indenture, dated as of January 13, 1998, between the Company and Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York. 4.2(a) - Form of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2017 of the Company. --------- (a) Filed herewith.

Exhibit 4.1 SEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE THIS SEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of March 12, 2007 (this "Supplemental Indenture"), among Pioneer Natural Resources Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., a Delaware corporation, for purposes of agreeing to make certain guarantees pursuant to Section 5 hereof (the "Guarantor"), The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association organized under the laws of the United States of America, as successor trustee under the Indenture (the "Original Trustee"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, national banking association organized under the laws of the United States of America, as series trustee for the Notes (the "Series Trustee"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Indenture referred to below. RECITALS A. The Company and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation (the "Prior Trustee"), entered into that certain Indenture, dated as of January 13, 1998 (the "Indenture"), pursuant to which the Company may from time to time issue its debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (collectively, the "Debt Securities"). B. The Company, the Prior Trustee and the Original Trustee are parties to that certain Agreement of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated as of February 21, 2005, pursuant to which the Prior Trustee resigned as trustee under the Indenture and the Original Trustee was appointed as successor trustee under the Indenture. C. Section 9.01 of the Indenture provides that the Company, when authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company, and the Trustee may, without the consent of the holders of the Debt Securities, enter into a supplemental indenture to establish the form or terms of Debt Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 2.03 of the Indenture. D. Section 7.08 of the Indenture provides that the Company may appoint a separate Trustee for any one or more series of Debt Securities. E. The Company desires to issue, and upon certain events specified in this Supplemental Indenture, the Guarantor desires to agree to be obligated to guarantee, $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "Notes") and in connection therewith, the Company and the Guarantor have duly determined to make, execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture to set forth the terms and provisions of the Notes as required by the Indenture. F. The Company desires to appoint the Series Trustee to serve as the Trustee under the Indenture with respect to, and only with respect to, the Notes. G. The Company has requested that the Original Trustee enter into this Supplemental Indenture in connection with the appointment of the Series Trustee with all the rights, powers, and duties of the Trustee with respect to, and only with respect to, the Notes and for the purpose of supplementing and amending Section 9.01 of the Indenture to effect such appointment. 1
H. The Company has determined that this Supplemental Indenture is authorized or permitted by Sections 9.01 and 7.08 of the Indenture and has delivered to the Original Trustee and the Series Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to that effect and an Opinion of Counsel and Officers' Certificate to the effect that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture to the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture have been complied with. I. All things necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid and legally binding indenture and agreement according to its terms, and a valid and legally binding amendment of, and supplement to, the Indenture have been done. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements and covenants set forth herein, the parties hereto agree, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, as follows for the benefit of the Series Trustee and the Holders of the Notes: AGREEMENT Section 1. Appointment and Acceptance by Series Trustee. (a) Pursuant to the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, the Company hereby appoints the Series Trustee as Trustee under the Indenture with respect to, and only with respect to, the Notes. Pursuant to the Indenture, all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under the Indenture shall be vested in the Series Trustee with respect to the Notes, and there shall continue to be vested in the Original Trustee all of its rights, powers and duties as Trustee under the Indenture with respect to all of the series of Debt Securities to which it has served and continues to serve as Trustee under the Indenture. (b) The Series Trustee hereby represents that it is qualified and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.10 of the Indenture and the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 to accept its appointment as Trustee with respect to the Notes under the Indenture and hereby accepts the appointment as such Trustee. (c) Pursuant to the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, the Company hereby appoints the Series Trustee as "Debt Security Registrar," "authentication agent" and "paying agent" with respect to the Notes. Section 2. Notes. Pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Indenture, the terms and provisions of the Notes are as follows: (a) The title of the Notes shall be "6.65% Senior Notes due 2017." (b) The Notes shall be initially limited to $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, increase such aggregate principal amount in the future, on the same terms and conditions and with the same CUSIP numbers as the Notes. The Company shall not issue any such additional Notes unless the additional Notes are fungible with the Notes for United States federal income tax purposes. (c) The Notes shall not require any principal or premium payments prior to maturity on March 15, 2017. 2
(d) The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 6.65% per annum; interest on the notes shall accrue from March 12, 2007, for the first interest payment and from the most recent interest payment date thereafter; the interest payment dates on which such interest shall be payable shall be March 15 and September 15, beginning September 15, 2007; and the record dates for the determination of the holders of the Notes to whom such interest is payable shall be the immediately preceding March 1 (for March 15 payment dates) and September 1 (for September 15 payment dates); the rate at which the overdue principal shall bear interest shall be 1% per annum in excess of the rate stated initially in this clause; and the rate at which overdue installments of interest shall bear interest shall be 1% per annum in excess of the rate stated initially in this clause to the extent lawful. (e) Payments of principal of and interest on the Notes represented by one or more Global Senior Notes initially registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary") or its nominee with respect to the Notes shall be made by the Company through the Trustee in immediately available funds to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be. (f) The Notes shall be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, at the price, and otherwise in accordance with the terms and provisions, set forth in Section 3 of this Supplemental Indenture and (to the extent they do not conflict with Section 3 of this Supplemental Indenture) the terms and provisions of Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the Indenture. (g) The Notes shall be represented by one or more Global Senior Notes deposited with the Depositary and registered in the name of the nominee of the Depositary. (h) There shall be no mandatory sinking fund for the payments of the Notes. (i) As long as the Depositary or its nominee, or a successor Depositary or its nominee, is the registered owner of the Global Senior Notes relating to the Notes, owners of the beneficial interests in such Global Senior Notes shall not be entitled to have the Notes registered in their names and shall not receive or be entitled to receive physical delivery of Notes in definitive form except (i) as provided in Section 2.15(c) of the Indenture or (ii) if an Event of Default with respect to the Notes has occurred and is continuing. (j) Wells Fargo Bank, National Association shall be the series trustee for the Notes under the Indenture. (k) Article X of the Indenture shall apply to the Notes. (l) The Notes shall not be subordinated pursuant to the provisions of Article XII of the Indenture. The Notes shall be senior unsecured obligations of the Company ranking pari passu with other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company. (m) The Company shall be subject to all the covenants set forth in Article IV of the Indenture with respect to the Notes. (n) To the extent not set forth herein, the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Indenture are not applicable. 3
Section 3. Optional Redemption of Notes. The Notes will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 and not more than 60 days' notice as provided in the Indenture, on any date prior to maturity (the "Redemption Date") at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on any interest payment date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date) plus a Make-Whole Premium, if any (the "Redemption Price"). In no event will a Redemption Price ever be less than 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption Date. The amount of the Make-Whole Premium with respect to any of the Notes (or portion thereof) to be redeemed will be equal to the excess, if any, of: (a) the sum of the present values, calculated as of the Redemption Date, of: (i) each interest payment that, but for such redemption, would have been payable on such Note (or portion thereof) being redeemed on each interest payment date occurring after the Redemption Date (excluding any accrued interest for the period prior to the Redemption Date); and (ii) the principal amount that, but for such redemption, would have been payable at the final maturity of such Note (or portion thereof) being redeemed; over (b) the principal amount of such Note (or portion thereof) being redeemed. The present values of interest and principal payments referred to in clause (a) above will be determined in accordance with generally accepted principles of financial analysis. Such present values will be calculated by discounting the amount of each payment of interest or principal from the date that each such payment would have been payable, but for the redemption, to the Redemption Date at a discount rate equal to the Treasury Yield (as defined below) plus 50 basis points. The Make-Whole Premium will be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company; provided that if the Company fails to make such appointment at least 30 business days prior to the Redemption Date, or if the institution so appointed is unwilling or unable to make such calculation, such calculation will be made by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee (in any such case, an "Independent Investment Banker"). For purposes of determining the Make-Whole Premium, "Treasury Yield" means a rate of interest per annum equal to the weekly average yield to maturity of United States Treasury Notes that have a constant maturity that corresponds to the remaining term to maturity of the applicable Notes, calculated to the nearest 1/12th of a year (the "Remaining Term"). The Treasury Yield will be determined as of the third business day immediately preceding the applicable Redemption Date. The weekly average yields of United States Treasury Notes will be determined by reference to the most recent statistical release published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New 4
York and designated "H.15 (519) Selected Interest Rates" or any successor release (the "H.15 Statistical Release"). If the H.15 Statistical Release sets forth a weekly average yield for United States Treasury Notes having a constant maturity that is the same as the Remaining Term, then the Treasury Yield will be equal to such weekly average yield. In all other cases, the Treasury Yield will be calculated by interpolation, on a straight-line basis, between the weekly average yields on the United States Treasury Notes that have a constant maturity closest to and greater than the Remaining Term and the United States Treasury Notes that have a constant maturity closest to and less than the Remaining Term (in each case as set forth in the H.15 Statistical Release). Any weekly average yields so calculated by interpolation will be rounded to the nearest 1/100th of 1%, with any figure of 1/200th of 1% or above being rounded upward. If weekly average yields for United States Treasury Notes are not available in the H.15 Statistical Release or otherwise, then the Treasury Yield will be calculated by interpolation of comparable rates selected by the Independent Investment Banker. In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Notes for redemption will be made by the Trustee on a pro rata basis, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem to be fair and appropriate, although no such Note of $1,000 in original principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Note. Section 4. Offer to Repurchase Upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event. (a) If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs, unless the Company has otherwise exercised its right to redeem the Notes, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any portion (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000) of such Holder's Notes at a price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Repurchase Event Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event, the Company will mail a notice (the "Change of Control Repurchase Event Offer") to each holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and stating: (i) that the Change of Control Repurchase Event Offer is being made pursuant to the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes and that all Notes tendered will be accepted for payment; (ii) the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Repurchase Event Payment Date"); (iii) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest; (iv) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Repurchase Event Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Repurchase Event Offer will cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Repurchase Event Payment Date; 5
(v) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Repurchase Event Offer will be required to surrender the Notes to the paying agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third business day preceding the Change of Control Repurchase Event Payment Date; (vi) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the paying agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second business day preceding the Change of Control Repurchase Event Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and (vii) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be equal to $1,000 in principal amount or an integral multiple thereof. The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes by virtue of such conflict. (b) On the Change of Control Repurchase Event Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful: (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Company's offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased by the Company. The paying agent will promptly mail to each holder of Notes properly tendered the purchase price for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each holder a new Note equal to the principal amount of any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; provided, that each new Note will be issued in denominations of $1,000 or integral multiples of $1,000. (c) Except as described above with respect to a Change of Control Repurchase Event, the Indenture does not contain any other provisions that permit the holders of the Notes to 6
require the Company to repurchase or redeem the Notes in the event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction. (d) The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Repurchase Event Offer if a third party makes an offer in the manner applicable to an offer made by the Company, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture, and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. Section 5. Obligation to Guarantee. If at any time any of the Company's 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2007, 6.50% Senior Notes due 2008, 5.875% Senior Notes due 2012, 5.875% Senior Notes due 2016, 6.875% Senior Notes due 2018 or 7.20% Senior Notes due 2028 (the "7.20% Notes," and collectively with all other senior notes, the "Existing Senior Notes") are guaranteed by the Guarantor pursuant to the terms of the Indenture or any applicable supplemental indenture related to such senior notes, then the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee shall as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter execute and deliver a supplemental indenture to the Indenture pursuant to which the Guarantor shall unconditionally guarantee the Notes on substantially the same terms as the Guarantor shall have guaranteed the 7.20% Notes; provided, however, that if the Guarantor is not required to guarantee the 7.20% Notes or if the 7.20% Notes are no longer outstanding, then the Guarantor shall guarantee the Notes on substantially the same terms as the most recently issued series of Existing Senior Notes that are guaranteed. The Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee, as applicable, also shall execute and deliver such other documents, instruments or certificates as are reasonably necessary or appropriate to effect the required guarantee of the Notes. Section 6. Amendments to Sections 1.01, 2.02, 2.07, 2.15 and 13.03. (a) Section 1.01. Section 1.01 is hereby amended, solely with respect to the Notes, by: (i) deleting clause (a)(iv)(A) of the definition of "Adjusted Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" and substituting therefor the following language "the net book value of other tangible assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, as of a date no earlier than the date of the Company's latest annual or quarterly financial statement, and"; deleting the following language "Issue Date (including, without limitation, under the Credit Agreements)" at the end of clause (e) of the definition of "Permitted Liens" and substituting therefor the following language "date on which the 6.65% Senior Notes due 2017 of the Company were originally issued"; adding the following language "and Liens securing Non-Recourse Indebtedness; provided, however, that the related purchase money Indebtedness and Non-Recourse Indebtedness, as applicable, shall not be secured by any Property or assets of the company or any Restricted Subsidiary other than the Property acquired by the Company with the proceeds of such purchase money Indebtedness or Non-Recourse Indebtedness, as applicable" after "Purchase Money Liens" in clause (i) of the definition of "Permitted Liens"; (ii) deleting the definition of "Credit Agreements" and substituting therefor the definition "Credit Facility" as follows: 7
"Credit Facility" means, with respect to the Company, the credit facility made available to the Company pursuant to the Amended and Restated 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 2005, among the Company and the lenders named therein, together with any Refinancings thereof by a lender or a syndicate of lenders. It is understood and agreed that the Credit Facility may be refinanced, refunded, extended, renewed or replaced (through one or more such refinancings, refundings, extensions, renewals or replacements), as a whole, or in part, from time to time after the termination of the applicable Credit Facility"; and (iii) adding a definition of "Change of Control" as follows: "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act or any successor provisions to either of the foregoing) of persons become the "beneficial owners" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, except that a person will be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all shares that any such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company, whether as a result of the issuance of securities of the Company, any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution of the Company or otherwise; or (b) the sale, transfer, assignment, lease, conveyance or other disposition, directly or indirectly, of all or substantially all the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as a whole (other than a disposition of such assets as an entirety or virtually as an entirety to a wholly-owned subsidiary) shall have occurred, or the Company merges, consolidates or amalgamates with or into any other person or any other person merges, consolidates or amalgamates with or into the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where: (i) the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified into or exchanged for other Voting Stock of the Company or for Voting Stock of the surviving corporation, and (ii) the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to such transaction own, directly or indirectly, not less than a majority of the Voting Stock of the Company or the surviving corporation immediately after such transaction and in substantially the same proportion as before the transition; or (c) during any period, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors (together with any new directors whose election or appointment by such Board or whose nomination for election by the stockholders of the Company was approved by a vote of not less than a majority of the directors then still in 8
office who were either directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors then in office; or (d) the stockholders of the Company shall have approved any plan of liquidation or dissolution of the Company. (iv) adding a definition of "Change of Control Repurchase Event" as follows: "Change of Control Repurchase Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Decline. (v) adding a definition of "Investment Grade" as follows: "Investment Grade" means BBB- or higher by S&P and Baa3 or higher by Moody's, or the equivalent of such ratings by S&P or Moody's, or, if either S&P and Moody's shall not make a rating on the notes publicly available, another Rating Agency. (vi) adding a definition of "Moody's" as follows: "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (vii) adding a definition of "Non-Recourse Indebtedness" as follows: "Non-Recourse Indebtedness" means Indebtedness or that portion of Indebtedness of the Company incurred in connection with the acquisition by the Company of any Property and as to which: (a) the holders of such Indebtedness agree in writing that they will look solely to the Property so acquired and securing such Indebtedness for payment on or in respect of such Indebtedness and (b) no default with respect to such Indebtedness would permit (after notice or passage of time or both), according to the terms of any other Indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, any holder of such other Indebtedness to declare a default under such other Indebtedness or cause the payment of such other Indebtedness to be accelerated or payable prior to its stated maturity. (viii)adding a definition of "Rating Agency" as follows: "Rating Agency" means each of S&P and Moody's, or if S&P or Moody's or both shall not make a rating on the notes publicly available, a nationally recognized statistical rating agency or agencies, as the case may be, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's board of directors) which shall be substituted for S&P or Moody's, or both, as the case may be. 9
(ix) adding a definition of "Refinance" as follows: "Refinance" means, in respect of any Indebtedness, to refinance, extend, renew, refund, repay, prepay, redeem, defease or retire, or to issue other Indebtedness in exchange or replacement for, such indebtedness. "Refinanced" and "Refinancing" shall have correlative meanings. (x) adding a definition of "Rating Decline" as follows: "Rating Decline" means the rating of the notes shall be decreased by one or more gradations (including gradations within categories as well as between rating categories) by each of the Rating Agencies, provided, however, if the rating of the notes by each of the Rating Agencies is Investment Grade, then "Rating Decline" will mean the rating of the notes shall be decreased by one or more gradations (including gradations within categories as well as between rating categories) by each Rating Agency so that the rating of the notes by each of the Rating Agencies falls below Investment Grade, on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 30-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 30-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies; provided, that the other Rating Agency has either downgraded, or publicly announced that it is considering downgrading, the notes). (xi) adding a definition of "S&P" as follows: "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (xii) adding a definition of "Voting Stock" as follows: "Voting Stock" of any person means all classes of capital stock or other interests (including partnership interests) of such person then outstanding and normally entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof. (b) Section 2.02. Section 2.02 is hereby amended, solely with respect to the Notes, by deleting the form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication and substituting therefore the following: TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Debt Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. Dated: WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, 10
as Trustee By: __________________________________ Authorized Signature (c) Section 2.07. Section 2.07 is hereby amended, solely with respect to the Notes, by adding "the Underwriters," before "the Company" in the last sentence of Section 2.07. (d) Section 2.15. Section 2.15 is hereby amended, solely with respect to the Notes, by adding "the Underwriters," before "the Company" in the third sentence of subclause (v) of Section 2.15(c). (e) Section 13.03. Section 13.03 is hereby amended, solely with respect to the Notes, by deleting the second sentence thereof and substituting therefore the following: Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Indenture, any notice, direction, request or demand by the Company or by any Holder to or upon the Trustee may be given or made, for all purposes, by being deposited postage prepaid in a post office letter box in the United States addressed to the corporate trust office of the Trustee at 201 Main Street, Suite 301, Fort Worth, Texas 76102; Attention: Corporate Trust Trustee Administration. Section 7. Ratification. This Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Indenture and, as provided in the Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture forms a part of the Indenture. Except to the extent amended by or supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee hereby ratify, confirm and reaffirm the Indenture in all respects. Section 8. Counterparts. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. Section 9. Governing Law. The laws of the State of New York shall govern the construction and interpretation of this Supplemental Indenture, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws. Section 10. Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Notes. The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except the Series Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Series Trustee and the Original Trustee assume no responsibility for their correctness. The Series Trustee and the Original Trustee make no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or of the Notes. The Series Trustee and the Original Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Notes or the proceeds thereof. [Signature Page Follows] 11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be signed on their behalf by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first above written: Pioneer Natural Resources Company By: /s/ Mark H. Kleinman ---------------------------------------- Name: Mark H. Kleinman Title: Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. By: /s/ Mark H. Kleinman ---------------------------------------- Name: Mark H. Kleinman Title: Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Series Trustee By: /s/ Patrick T. Giordano ---------------------------------------- Name: Patrick T. Giordano Title: Vice President The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Original Trustee By: /s/ Mauri J. Cowen ---------------------------------------- Name: Mauri J. Cowen Title: Vice President SIGNATURE PAGE SEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

Exhibit 4.2 UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC) ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
[FACE OF SECURITY] CUSIP NO. 723787 AG2 ISIN NO. US723787AG24 No. T-01 $500,000,000 6.65% Senior Notes due 2017 Pioneer Natural Resources Company,a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $500,000,000 Dollars on March 15, 2017. Interest Payment Dates: March 15 and September 15 Record Dates: March 1 and September 1 Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security. Dated: March 12, 2007 PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY By: ----------------------------- Richard P. Dealy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer By: ----------------------------- Mark H. Kleinman Secretary TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Debt Securities, designated 6.65%Senior Notes due 2017, referred to in the Indenture. By: ----------------------------- Authorized Signatory 2
[REVERSE OF SECURITY] 6.65% Senior Notes due 2017 1. Interest Pioneer Natural Resources Company, a Delaware corporation (such corporation, and its successors and assigns under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, being herein called the "Company"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at the rate per annum shown above. The Company shall pay interest semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year commencing on September 15, 2007. Interest on the Securities shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from March 12, 2007. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal at 1% per annum in excess of the rate borne by the Securities, and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at such higher rate to the extent lawful. 2. Method of Payment The Company shall pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered holders of Securities at the close of business on the March 1 or September 1 next preceding the interest payment date even if Securities are canceled after the record date and on or before the interest payment date. Holders must surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company shall pay principal and interest in immediately available (same day) funds in money of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may pay principal and interest by check or wire transfer payable in immediately available (same day) funds in such money. 3. Paying Agent and Registrar Initially, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a United States banking association ("Trustee"), shall act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice. The Company or any of its domestically incorporated wholly owned Subsidiaries may act as paying agent, Registrar or co-registrar. 4. Indenture The Company issued the Securities under an indenture dated as of January 13, 1998, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (the "Original Trustee"), as supplemented by the seventh supplemental indenture dated as of March 12, 2007 (the "Seventh Supplemental Indenture," and, collectively with the aforementioned indenture, the "Indenture"), among the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Guarantor"), the Original Trustee and the Trustee. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. SS.SS 77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of the Indenture (the "Act"). Terms defined in the Indenture and not defined herein have the meanings 3
ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the Act for a statement of those terms. This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of general unsecured obligations of the Company all issued or to be issued under the Indenture. Debt Securities issued under the Indenture may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest at different rates, may have different conversion prices (if any), may be subject to different redemption provisions, may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds, may be subject to different covenants, Events of Default and subordination provisions and may otherwise vary as the Indenture provides. This Security is one of a series designated as 6.65% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "Securities") issued under the Indenture, limited to $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, increase such aggregate principal amount in the future, on the same terms and conditions and with the same CUSIP numbers as the Notes. The Company shall not issue any such additional Notes unless the additional Notes are fungible with the Notes for United States federal income tax purposes. The Indenture imposes certain limitations (with significant exceptions) on the ability of the Company and its Subsidiaries to create Liens on assets and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. This Indenture also imposes limitations on the ability of the Company to consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of its assets. 5. Obligation to Guarantee The Guarantor, pursuant to the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, has agreed that, if any of certain other senior notes of the Company hereafter are guaranteed by the Guarantor then, it will at that time unconditionally guarantee (a) the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities, whether at the maturity date, by acceleration or otherwise, and of interest on the overdue principal of and interest, if any, on any premium and interest of the Securities and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee under the Indenture or the Securities and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Securities or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. The obligations of the Guarantor to the Holders and to the Trustee are as expressly set forth in Section 5 of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture and in such other provisions of the Indenture as are applicable to the Guarantor, and reference is hereby made to such Indenture for the precise terms of this obligation to guarantee. The terms of Section 5 of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture and such other provisions of the Indenture as are applicable to the Guarantor are incorporated herein by reference. 6. Optional Redemption The Securities will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 and not more than 60 days' notice as provided in the Indenture, on any date prior to their maturity (the "Redemption Date") at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption 4
Date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on an interest payment date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date) plus a Make-Whole Premium, if any, calculated as provided in Section 3 of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture (the "Redemption Price"). In no event will a Redemption Price ever be less than 100% of the principal amount of the Securities plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption Date. 7. Denominations; Transfer; Exchange The Securities are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and whole multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities only in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements or transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. 8. Persons Deemed Owners The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes. 9. Unclaimed Money If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent shall pay the money back to the Company at its request unless an abandoned property law designates another Person. After any such payment, Holders entitled to the money must look only to the Company and not to the Trustee for payment. 10. Discharge and Defeasance Subject to certain conditions, the Company at any time may terminate some or all its obligations under the Securities and the Indenture if the Company deposits with the Trustee cash or U.S. Government Obligations for the payment of principal and interest on the Securities to redemption or maturity, as the case may be. 11. Amendment, Waiver Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Securities may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount outstanding of the Securities and (ii) any acceleration of principal and interest on the Securities resulting from a default or noncompliance with any provision may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount outstanding of the Securities. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in Article IX of the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Securities to cure, among other things, any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency, or to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company pursuant to Article X of the Indenture, or to add guarantees with respect to the Securities or to secure the Securities, or to add additional covenants or surrender rights and powers conferred on the Company, or to permit the qualification of the Indenture under the Act, or to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder, or to provide for the acceptance of a successor or separate Trustee. 5
12. Defaults and Remedies Under the Indenture, Events of Default include (i) default for 30 days in payment of interest on the Securities; (ii) default in payment of principal or premium on the Securities at maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise; (iii) failure by the Company to comply with other agreements in the Indenture or the Securities, in certain cases subject to notice by Holders and lapse of time; (iv) certain accelerations (including failure to pay within any grace period after final maturity) of other Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company if the amount accelerated (or so unpaid) exceeds $20,000,000 and continues for 10 days after the required notice to the Company; (v) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company and any Significant Subsidiary; (vi) certain judgments or decrees for the payment of money in excess of $20,000,000 and (vii) failure by the Guarantor to comply with certain agreements in the Seventh Supplemental Indenture. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Securities may declare all the Securities to be due and payable immediately. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default that will result in the Securities being due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default without any action by the Trustee or any Holders. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Securities unless it receives reasonable indemnity or security. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing Default (except a Default in payment of principal or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in the interest of the Holders. 13. Trustee Dealings with the Company Subject to certain limitations imposed by the Act, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. 14. No Recourse Against Others An incorporator and any past, present or future director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities. 15. Authentication This Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee (or an authenticating agent) manually signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Security. 6
16. Abbreviations Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act). 17. Governing Law THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. 18. CUSIP Numbers Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Securities and has directed the Trustee to use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon. The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture that has in it the text of this Security. Requests may be made to: Corporate Secretary Pioneer Natural Resources Company 5205 North O'Connor Boulevard, Suite 200 Irving, TX 75039 7
ASSIGNMENT FORM To assign this Security, fill in the form below: I or we assign and transfer this Security to - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. No.) and irrevocably appoint __________________ agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him. Date: Your Signature: ----------------- ------------------------------------- Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security. Date: Your Signature: ----------------- ------------------------------------- (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of the Security) Signature Guarantee: ----------------------------------------------------------- (Signature must be guaranteed by a member firm of the New York Stock Exchange or a commercial bank or trust company) 8


