FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20071106091528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 6, 2007
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
2
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
 
The information in this document includes forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, product supply and demand, competition, the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof, other government regulation or action, third party approvals, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, availability of drilling equipment, the Companys ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans (including its plan to sell its Canadian subsidary, its plan to repurchase stock and its plan to form Pioneer Southwest Energy Partners L.P and offer secuirties representing interests therein) or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, the assumptions underlying production forecasts, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are available from the Company or the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law.
 
On November 6, 2007, the Company issued a news release with financial statements and schedules that is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. In the news release, the Company announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, provided an operations update and provided the Company's financial and operational outlook for future periods based on current expectations.
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
S I G N A T U R E
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
___________
(a) Furnished herewith.
 
 
 
5
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
Pioneer Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
Dallas, Texas, November 6, 2007 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company (NYSE:PXD)
today announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.
 
 
Pioneer also announced that it expects 2007 all-in finding and development costs to be approximately $14 to $17 per barrel oil equivalent (BOE). Reserve replacement for 2007 is expected to be greater than 300%. The expected 2007 reserve additions are primarily attributable to continuing success in Tunisia, Spraberry, Raton and Edwards, and attractive acquisitions in Raton, Spraberry and the Barnett Shale.
 
Operations
In the Spraberry oil field, Pioneer has drilled approximately 300 wells year to date, and production for the third quarter of 2007 increased 14% compared to the same quarter of 2006. The Company continues to drill a majority of the wells to the deeper Wolfcamp zone resulting in incremental reserves and production of more than 20% being added to the typical Spraberry well. Today, Pioneer also separately announced a Spraberry acquisition.
 
In the Edwards Trend in South Texas, gas production increased 63% compared to the same quarter of 2006. Two new fields were discovered during the third quarter increasing Pioneers new field discoveries in the Edwards expansion area to eight. The Companys 3-D seismic program is progressing well, and treating and pipeline infrastructure in the field is being expanded to handle Pioneers increasing production.
 
 
The Raton Basin program continues to be ahead of schedule as a result of improved permitting and drilling and completion efficiencies. The Company expects that 300 new coal bed methane wells will be completed and placed online in Raton during 2007. Raton production for the third quarter of 2007 is up 11% compared to the third quarter of 2006. Pioneer continues to further enhance production by adding wellhead compression throughout the field and optimizing field pressures.
 
Today, Pioneer also separately announced that it has agreed to purchase additional properties in the Barnett Shale and provided an update on its initial activity.
 
On its operated Jenein Nord block in Tunisia, Pioneer announced two new discoveries during the third quarter, for a total of seven successful wells on the block since late 2006. The Company is constructing new facilities and expects to initiate oil production from Jenein Nord during the fourth quarter of 2007, with first sales expected in the first quarter of 2008. The three latest discoveries on the block, Farrah, Angham and Methaq, tested at a combined production rate of greater than 10,000 barrels of oil per day (BOPD). The Nadir well, a recent discovery in the Adam Concession, tested in excess of 4,000 BOPD. The acquisition of additional 3-D seismic is underway in Jenein Nord and will soon commence on the Anaguid block. Three additional wells are expected to be drilled in Tunisia before the end of the year, and 15 to 19 wells are planned for 2008.
 
Gas and condensate production from four wells in the South Coast Gas project offshore South Africa has been initiated. Net gas equivalent production is expected to average 15 to 20 million cubic feet per day (MMCFPD) during the fourth quarter, and one additional gas well is expected to be online by the end of the year.
 
In Alaska, the Company has installed the Oooguruk production modules, export pipeline and the drilling rig in order to commence drilling in December. The project is on schedule for first oil production during the first half of 2008 with first sales expected mid-year. On the Cosmopolitan project, offshore Kenai Peninsula, Pioneer is drilling a horizontal appraisal well from an onshore pad. It is anticipated that the appraisal well will be completed by the end of the year, followed by an extended production test.
 
Financial Review
Pioneers third quarter net income was $102 million, or $.84 per diluted share, and included income from continuing operations of $93 million, or $.77 per diluted share. Cash flow from operating activities for the third quarter was $191 million.
 
Excluding discontinued operations attributable to the pending sale of the Companys Canadian assets, third quarter oil sales averaged 24,994 barrels per day (BPD), natural gas liquids sales averaged 19,997 BPD and gas sales averaged 335 MMCFPD.
 
The reported price for oil was $70.27 per barrel and included $11.98 per barrel related to deferred revenue from volumetric production payments (VPPs) for which production was not recorded. The price for natural gas liquids was $42.48 per barrel. The reported price for gas was $7.11 per thousand cubic feet (MCF), including $.58 per MCF related to deferred revenue from VPPs for which production was not recorded.
 
During the third quarter of 2007, Pioneer recorded in Other Income $28 million ($18 million or $.15 per diluted share after tax) associated with the sale of Alaskan Petroleum Production Tax (PPT) credits. The Company earns PPT credits for qualified capital expenditures that can be used to reduce future PPT liabilities, sold to third parties or refunded by the State of Alaska.
 
 
 
Third quarter production costs averaged $12.24 per barrel oil equivalent (BOE). DD&A expense for the quarter was $114 million, or $12.28 per BOE, and included a charge of $17 million ($11 million or $.09 per diluted share after tax), due to downward price-related proved reserve revisions for properties in the Uinta/Piceance basin as a result of extremely low Rockies spot gas prices of $.60 per MCF as of September 30, 2007. Production from Pioneers Raton Basin properties is sold through Mid-Continent markets, and therefore Raton proved reserves were not impacted by low quarter-end prices in the Rockies.
 
Exploration and abandonment costs were $34 million for the quarter and included $10 million of acreage and unsuccessful drilling costs and $24 million of geologic and geophysical expenses, including seismic and personnel costs.
 
Considering that the South Coast Gas project is completed and that most of the investment in Oooguruk facilities will be expended by the end of 2007, Pioneers 2008 capital budget is expected to be approximately $1 billion, in line with expected cash flow. Capital spending for 2008 will be focused primarily on onshore development activities in Spraberry, Raton, Edwards and Tunisia and offshore development drilling at Oooguruk.
 
Scott Sheffield, Chairman and CEO, stated, Third quarter production from continuing operations was up 12% from the prior year quarter. This strong organic production growth coupled with the opportunity to enhance per-share performance with share repurchases give us confidence that we can achieve our 12+% compounded annual production growth target for 2007 through 2010.
 
Financial Outlook
Fourth quarter 2007 production from continuing operations is forecasted to average 101,000 to 106,000 BOEPD. Consistent growth is expected to continue, primarily driven by increasing production from Spraberry, Raton, Edwards, Tunisia and the South Coast Gas project in South Africa.
 
Fourth quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes and transportation costs) are expected to average $11.75 to $12.75 per BOE based on current NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $10.50 to $11.50 per BOE.
 
Total exploration and abandonment expense during the fourth quarter is expected to be $40 million to $70 million and could include up to $45 million associated with lower-risk resource plays in the Edwards Trend in South Texas, the Rockies and Tunisia. In addition, exploration expense is expected to include up to $25 million for seismic investments and personnel, primarily related to the onshore resource plays in South Texas and Tunisia that Pioneer is currently progressing.
 
General and administrative expense is expected to be $30 million to $34 million. Interest expense is expected to be $38 million to $42 million, reflecting the ceasing of capitalization of interest on the South Gas Project in South Africa since it has started producing. Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be $2 million to $3 million.
 
The Companys fourth quarter effective income tax rate is expected to range from 40% to 45%based on current capital spending plans.
 
Fourth quarter 2007 amortization of deferred losses on terminated oil and gas hedges is expected to be $38 million. The Company's financial results, oil and gas hedges and future VPP amortization are outlined on the attached schedules.
 
 
 
All necessary approvals for the divestiture of Pioneers Canadian subsidiary have been obtained, except for the purchasers approval under the Investment Canada Act. During the fourth quarter, Pioneer expects to close the sale of its Canadian subsidiary and the initial public offering of units in Pioneer Southwest Energy Partners L.P. Proceeds from these transactions will be used to fund the previously announced acquisitions in the Rockies, Barnett Shale and Spraberry and to reduce outstanding indebtedness.
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
On Tuesday, November 6 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time, Pioneer will discuss its quarterly financial and operating results with an accompanying presentation. The call will be webcast on Pioneers website,
www.pxd.com
. At the website, select INVESTOR at the top of the page. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available shortly after the call. Or you may choose to dial (800) 310-6649 (confirmation code: 3997429) to listen to the call by telephone and view the accompanying visual presentation at the website above. A telephone replay will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112 (confirmation code: 3997429).
 
Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company, headquartered in Dallas, with operations in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia. For more information, visit Pioneers website at www.pxd.com.
 
Pioneer uses the term all-in finding and development costs per BOE to mean total costs incurred divided by the summation of annual proved reserves, on a BOE basis, attributable to revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals-in-place and discoveries and extensions. Consistent with industry practice, future capital costs to develop proved undeveloped reserves are not included in costs incurred. Reserve replacement is the summation of annual proved reserves, on a BOE basis, attributable to revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals-in-place and discoveries and extensions divided by annual production of oil, NGLs and natural gas, on a BOE basis.
 
A registration statement relating to the common units of Pioneer Southwest Energy Partners L.P. has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold, nor may offers to buy be accepted, prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
 
The offering of common units will be made only by means of a prospectus. A copy of the prospectus, when available, may be obtained by submitting requests to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Attention: Prospectus Department, Brooklyn Army Terminal, 140 58th Street, 8th Floor, Brooklyn, New York 11220, phone: 718-765-6732, fax: 718-765-6734; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Attention: Prospectus Department, 100 Plaza One, Jersey City, New Jersey 07311, phone: 800-503-4611, or email: prospectusrequest@list.db.com; or UBS Securities LLC, Attention: Prospectus Department, 299 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10171, phone: 212-821-3000.
 
Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this News Release are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneers actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, product supply and demand, competition, the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof, other government regulation or action, third party approvals, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, availability of drilling equipment, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans (including its plan sell its Canadian subsidiary, its plan to repurchase stock and its plan to form Pioneer Southwest Energy Partners L.P. and offer securities representing interests therein) or complete
 
 
its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, the assumptions underlying production forecasts, uncertainties about estimates of reserves, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneers 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Pioneer undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law.
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except for per share data)
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUMMARY PRODUCTION AND PRICE DATA
 
 
 
_____________
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(in thousands)
 
 
EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow ("DCF") (as defined below) are presented herein, and reconciled to the generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measures of net income and net cash provided by operating activities because of their wide acceptance by the investment community as financial indicators of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur debt. The Company also views the non-GAAP measures of EBITDAX and DCF as useful tools for comparisons of the Company's financial indicators with those of peer companies that follow the full cost method of accounting. EBITDAX and DCF should not be considered as alternatives to net income or net cash provided by operating activities, as defined by GAAP.
 
 
 
_____________
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
As of November 2, 2007
 
Open Commodity Hedge Positions
 
 
 
_____________
 
Amortization of Deferred Revenue Associated with Volumetric Production Payments
and Net Derivative Losses
(in thousands)
 
 
 
_____________
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
As of November 2, 2007
(continued)
 
 
Deferred Losses on Terminated Hedges (a)
(in thousands)
 
 
_____________
 
 
 
 
 


