FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20081104204411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 4, 2008
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
 
On November 4, 2008, Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the Company) issued the news release, with financial statements and schedules, that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. In the news release, the Company announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, provided an operations update and provided the Companys financial and operational outlook for future periods based on current expectations.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
S I G N A T U R E
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
___________
(a) Furnished herewith.
 
 
4
 
 
 

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
Pioneer Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results
 
today announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. Pioneer reported a third quarter net loss of $3 million, or $.03 per diluted share, including several significant noncash charges that totaled $112 million, or $.94 per diluted share (further discussed under Financial Review below). Earnings adjusted for these unusual items were $109 million, or $.91 per diluted share.
Dallas, Texas, November 4, 2008 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company (NYSE:PXD)
 
The third quarter was also materially impacted by the loss of approximately 3,000 barrels oil equivalent per day (BOEPD) of production due to shutting in and curtailing production related to Hurricanes Ike and Gustav as a result of damage to third-party pipelines and natural gas liquids (NGL) fractionation facilities in Mont Belvieu. In addition, the quarter was affected by declining oil and gas prices and widening differentials relative to NYMEX gas prices.
 
Despite the production lost as a result of hurricanes during the third quarter of 2008, the Company continued to generate strong production growth of 11% from the prior-year quarter (excluding 2007 sales from divested Canada assets). Pioneers strong growth performance is also reflected in the results for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, with production rising 18% from levels achieved for the same period of 2007. Production from Pioneers core growth assets (including Spraberry, Raton, Edwards, Tunisia and Alaska) increased 23% for the nine-month period compared to the same period in 2007.
 
Other recent highlights included:
 
Low Price Environment Initiatives
 
Concerns that the worldwide economic slowdown will negatively impact the demand for energy have resulted in a significant drop in commodity prices since their highs earlier in 2008. Even in the lower price environment, Pioneers financial position remains strong. The Company has no significant bond maturities until 2013, has $775 million of liquidity under its senior unsecured credit facility that matures in 2012 and has significant
 
capacity under its debt covenants. Pioneer expects capital spending for 2008 to be within cash flow. Pioneer has also hedged approximately 20% of its oil production in 2009 and 2010 utilizing collars with a floor price of $100 per barrel and a ceiling price of more than $190 per barrel.
 
As a result of the significant drop in commodity prices, the Company has started implementing initiatives to reduce capital spending and preserve financial flexibility. Specifically, the Company is implementing a plan for a near-term $60 per barrel of oil and $6 per thousand cubic feet (MCF) of gas environment. This plan includes minimizing drilling activities until margins improve as a result of (i) commodity prices improving, (ii) gas price differentials in the areas where the Company produces gas improving relative to NYMEX quoted prices and/or (iii) well cost reductions. The Company is focused on delivering free cash flow in 2009 and beyond. As a result, Pioneer is reducing its rig activity by approximately 60% and is pursuing reductions in well costs of 20% to 30% to align costs with the lower commodity price environment that currently exists. Rigs are being terminated or stacked in the Spraberry, Raton, Edwards Trend, Barnett Shale and Mid-Continent areas. The Company is also reducing the number of well service units running in the Spraberry field from 42 to 30, 15 of which are lower-cost well service units that are owned by Pioneer.
 
In 2009, the Company expects to reduce the capital budget by 30% to 60% compared to 2008 and generate free cash flow. Even with a significantly reduced capital budget in 2009, Pioneer expects 5% to 10% production growth. The low end of the production growth range reflects a $60 per barrel/$6 per MCF environment, while the high end of the range reflects current strip prices. Pioneers ability to increase production with limited capital highlights the quality of its long-lived, low-decline assets and the low-risk drilling nature of these assets. Production growth for 2009 will also benefit from the October startup of the most prolific well in the South Coast Gas project (South Africa), infrastructure expansion currently being completed in the Edwards Trend and reduced commitments under Pioneers volumetric production payment (VPP) agreements. The Companys Oooguruk project on the North Slope of Alaska is also expected to generate significant growth in 2009 and 2010.
 
Scott Sheffield, Chairman and CEO, stated, Pioneers assets continue to perform at or above expectations, and our strategy to deliver low-risk, consistent growth and free cash flow remains intact. We have a large drilling inventory of over 20,000 locations, over 1.8 billion barrels of net resource potential and upside from several new shale plays. In an $80 per barrel and $8 per MCF environment with proportional well cost reductions, we would ramp up drilling activity to be in a position to deliver the Companys prior 14+% compound annual production per share growth target. Free cash flow will be utilized to continue to reduce outstanding shares, decrease debt and pursue bolt-on acquisition opportunities.
 
Financial Review
Cash flow from operating activities for the third quarter was $303 million.
 
Third quarter sales averaged 111,838 BOEPD, consisting of oil sales averaging 30,406 barrels per day (BPD), NGL sales averaging 18,921 BPD and gas sales averaging 375 million cubic feet per day (MMCFPD).
 
The reported third quarter average price for oil was $81.51 per barrel and included $9.34 per barrel related to deferred revenue from VPPs for which production was not recorded. The reported price for NGLs was $62.24 per barrel. The reported price for gas was $7.99 per MCF, including $.39 per MCF related to deferred revenue from VPPs for which production was not recorded.
 
Third quarter production costs averaged $15.13 per BOE. Production costs were primarily impacted by fixed costs associated with wells shut-in or curtailed by the recent hurricanes and higher energy-related costs.
 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) expense averaged $12.39 per BOE for the third quarter. DD&A expense increased primarily due to losing end-of-well-life reserves that became uneconomical as a result of lower quarter-end gas prices and significantly wider gas differentials in certain areas relative to the NYMEX gas price.
 
Noncash charges for the third quarter totaling $112 million (on an after-tax basis) included a receivable allowance of $12 million ($.10 per share) for unpaid pre-bankruptcy claims for condensate sold to certain subsidiaries of SemGroup, L.P., an Equatorial Guinea exit charge of $5 million ($.04 per share), drilling and acreage charges related to the abandonment of Pioneers Lay Creek coal bed methane (CBM) and Delaware shale projects of $38 million ($.32 per share), and an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of Pioneers Uinta Piceance assets of $57 million ($.48 per share) as a result of lower gas prices.
 
Exploration and abandonment costs were $111 million for the quarter and included $30 million of acreage and unsuccessful drilling costs, $60 million related to the previously discussed noncash charge to abandon the Lay Creek CBM and Delaware Shale projects and $21 million of geologic and geophysical expenses, including seismic in the Edwards Trend and Tunisia and personnel costs.
 
Operations Update
In the Spraberry field, the Railroad Commission of Texas has approved Pioneers petition for a field rule change to allow optional fieldwide 20-acre downspacing.  Pioneer has identified 9,500 drilling locations across its acreage where it intends to utilize 20-acre downspacing in future years.  Based on historical downspacing performance, the Company expects internal rates of return similar to 40-acre Spraberry wells. Recoveries from these wells are expected to be at least 75% to 80% of the gross economic ultimate recovery of a 40-acre Spraberry well (100,000 barrels oil equivalent from 40-acre wells).  Results from the nine 20-acre wells drilled year-to-date reflect similar rates of production to offset 40-acre wells and are supportive of these expectations. 
 
Pioneer has also continued testing of the shale/silt non-traditional intervals in the Spraberry field.  An analysis of the initial 650-foot core that was taken from these intervals indicates that up to 30 feet of additional net pay is present. The Company also increased its Wolfberry acreage position in the Spraberry Trend by approximately 30,000 acres.
 
In two horizontal wells recently drilled in the Pierre Shale in the Raton Basin, Pioneer encountered intense natural fracturing and gas shows. The first well is currently being fracture stimulated, and preparations are underway to fracture stimulate the second well.
 
 
In South Texas, Pioneer drilled another discovery well with resource potential of at least 25 billion cubic feet. The Company is also drilling and coring its first horizontal well in the Eagle Ford Shale play where it holds a substantial acreage position in the gas window. The Eagle Ford Shale overlays the Edwards Trend in the 310,000 acres that Pioneer holds.
 
In Tunisia, the Companys initial well in the Anaguid concession (Pioneer-operated) was a discovery that tested oil, gas and condensate at 2,300 BOEPD. Another discovery was also announced in the Cherouq concession and is currently being tested. Pioneer has participated in nine Cherouq discoveries to date for a Silurian success rate of 70%. Two of the four wells that were unsuccessful in the Silurian are being tested in other zones.
 
The most prolific well in the South Coast Gas (SCG) project offshore South Africa has been placed on production ahead of schedule. Gross production from SCG is currently averaging 68 million cubic feet equivalent per day (MMCFEPD) and is expected to gradually increase to a range of 80 MMCFEPD to 90 MMCFEPD in early 2009, with no additional capital required.
 
Financial Outlook
Fourth quarter 2008 production is forecasted to average 114,000 BOEPD to 119,000 BOEPD, reflecting the impact of production that continues to be shut-in and/or curtailed due to the hurricanes. The interruption is expected to continue through mid-November, resulting in an average loss of 2,000 BOEPD for the quarter. Overall production is expected to increase during the fourth quarter, driven primarily by increases in several of Pioneers core areas (Spraberry, Edwards, Tunisia and Alaska). The forecasted fourth quarter production range includes production that is attributable to the public ownership in Pioneer Southwest Energy Partners L.P. (Pioneer Southwest). The expense estimates below also include amounts attributable to the public ownership in Pioneer Southwest.
 
Fourth quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes and transportation costs) are expected to average $14.00 to $15.00 per BOE based on current NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. DD&A expense is expected to average $13.00 to $14.00 per BOE, reflecting losing incremental end-of-well-life reserves based on current NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas.
 
Total exploration and abandonment expense during the fourth quarter is expected to be $40 million to $70 million, including up to $45 million associated with drilling in lower-risk resource plays in the Edwards Trend and Tunisia and $25million of seismic activity and personnel costs.
 
General and administrative expense is expected to be $35 million to $39 million. Interest expense is expected to be $36 million to $40 million. Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be $2 million to $4 million.
 
Minority interest in consolidated subsidiaries net income is expected to be $8 million to $10 million, primarily reflecting the public ownership in Pioneer Southwest.
 
The Company also expects to recognize $40 million to $45 million of charges in other expense associated with certain drilling rigs being terminated or stacked as a result of the Companys low price environment initiatives.
 
The Companys fourth quarter effective income tax rate is expected to range from 40% to 50% based on current capital spending plans. Cash taxes are expected to be $15 million to $20 million and are primarily attributable to Tunisia.
 
Fourth quarter 2008 amortization of deferred losses on terminated oil and gas hedges is expected to be $23 million. The Company's financial results, oil, NGL and gas hedges and future VPP amortization are outlined on the attached schedules.
 
Earnings Conference Call
On Wednesday, November 5 at 11:00 a.m. Central Time, Pioneer will discuss its financial and operating results with an accompanying presentation. The call will be webcast on Pioneers website, . The presentation will soon be available on Pioneers website for preview in advance of the call. At the website, select INVESTORS at the top of the page. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available shortly after the call. Or you may choose to dial (877) 879-6209 (confirmation code: 3324323) to listen to the call by telephone and view the accompanying visual presentation at the website above. A telephone replay will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112 (confirmation code: 3324323).
www.pxd.com
 
Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company, headquartered in Dallas, with operations in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia. For more information, visit Pioneers website at .
www.pxd.com
 
Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this News Release are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneers actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, product supply and demand, competition, the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof, other government regulation or action, the ability to obtain approvals from third parties and negotiate agreements with third parties on mutually acceptable terms, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, access to and availability of drilling equipment and transportation, processing and refining facilities, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans (including its plan to repurchase stock) or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, the financial strength of counterparties to Pioneers credit facility and derivative contracts and the purchasers of Pioneers oil, NGL and gas production, uncertainties about estimates of reserves and resource potential and the ability to add proved reserves in the future, the assumptions underlying production forecasts, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, and acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneers 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, Pioneer may be subject to currently unforeseen risks that may have a materially adverse impact on it. Pioneer undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law.
 
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors -- The SEC permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic
 
and operating conditions. Pioneer uses certain terms in this release, such as "resource potential," "gross economic ultimate recovery" or other descriptions of volumes of reserves potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines prohibit Pioneer from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being recovered by Pioneer.
 
Pioneer Natural Resources Contacts:
Investors
Media and Public Affairs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except for per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUMMARY PRODUCTION AND PRICE DATA
 
_____________
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(in thousands)
 
EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow ("DCF") (as defined below) are presented herein, and reconciled to the generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measures of net income (loss) and net cash provided by operating activities because of their wide acceptance by the investment community as financial indicators of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur debt. The Company also views the non-GAAP measures of EBITDAX and DCF as useful tools for comparisons of the Company's financial indicators with those of peer companies that follow the full cost method of accounting. EBITDAX and DCF should not be considered as alternatives to net income or net cash provided by operating activities, as defined by GAAP.
 
_____________
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Income as adjusted for significant noncash charges, as presented in this press release, is presented and reconciled to Pioneer's net loss determined in accordance with GAAP because Pioneer believes that this non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of Pioneer's business that, when viewed together with its final results computed in accordance with GAAP, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting its historical financial performance and future operating results, greater transparency of underlying trends and greater comparability of results across periods. In addition, management believes that this non-GAAP measure may enhance investors' ability to assess Pioneer's historical and future financial performance. This non-GAAP financial measure is not intended to be a substitute for the comparable GAAP measure and should be read only in conjunction with Pioneer's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Many of the noncash charges are of a type that could recur in future periods; however, the amount and frequency of each item can vary significantly from period to period. The table below reconciles Pioneer's net loss for the three months ended September 30, 2008, as determined in accordance with GAAP, to income as adjusted for significant noncash charges for that quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
Open Commodity Hedge Positions as of November 3, 2008
 
 
_____________
 
Amortization of Deferred Revenue Associated with Volumetric
Production Payments and Net Derivative Losses as of September 30, 2008
(in thousands)
 
 
_____________
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
Deferred Losses on Terminated Commodity Hedges as of September 30, 2008(a)
(in thousands)
 
 
 
_____________
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


