FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20080421060251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On April 21, 2008, Darin G. Holderness, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Pioneer, announced that he plans to leave Pioneer, effective May 9, 2008, to take a position as chief financial officer of another company.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     Pioneer Natural Resources Company ("Pioneer") has supplemented its investor presentation by adding or revising the slides attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     
The information in this report and its exhibit contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The words "believes," "plans," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "continue," "may," "will," "could," "should," "future," "potential," "estimate," or the negative of such terms and similar expressions as they relate to Pioneer are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements and Pioneer's business prospects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, product supply and demand, competition, the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof, other government regulation or action, third party approvals, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, access to and availability of drilling equipment and transportation, processing and refining facilities, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans (including its plan to repurchase stock) or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, uncertainties about estimates of reserves and resource potential and the ability to book proved reserves in the future, the assumptions underlying production forecasts, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, and acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneer's 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, Pioneer may be subject to currently unforeseen risks that may have a materially adverse impact on it. Pioneer undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
99.1  Pioneer Natural Resources Presentation Slides
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 21, 2008
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 


