FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20090422164544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 16, 2009
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.   Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
As previously announced, Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the Company) and Southeastern Asset Management, Inc. (Southeastern) have entered into an agreement pursuant to which the Company agreed to reduce its Board of Directors from eleven members to ten, to consist of seven existing Board members and three new directors to be recommended by Southeastern, whose nomination is subject to approval by the Company.
 
Pursuant to the agreement, Southeastern has recommended, and the Board of Directors has approved, the following individuals for nomination for election at the Companys 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to serve in the Class III group of directors for a term of office expiring in 2012:
 
 
 
 
Scott Sheffield, the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will also stand for election as a Class III Director at the 2009 Annual Meeting for a term expiring in 2012. To facilitate the transition to the new Board of Directors in accordance with the agreement with Southeastern, the following members of the Companys Board of Directors agreed on April 16, 2009 to resign from the Board effective with the election of the slate of directors up for election at the 2009 Annual Meeting, or to not be nominated for reelection to the Board at the meeting: James R. Baroffio, Linda K. Lawson, Mark S. Sexton and Robert A. Solberg. Additionally, pursuant to the actions of the Board, effective as of the 2009 Annual Meeting, the directors who will be designated as Class I Directors with a term expiring in 2010 will be Frank A. Risch, Andrew D. Lundquist and Charles E. Ramsey, Jr., and the directors who will be designated
 
as Class II Directors with a term expiring in 2011 will be R. Hartwell Gardner, Edison C. Buchanan and Jim A. Watson.
 
The Company has rescheduled its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to June 17, 2009, and has set the record date for that meeting as April 22, 2009.
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


