FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20090804204939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 4, 2009
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(972) 444-9001
Not applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
On August 4, 2009, Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") issued the news release, with financial statements and schedules, that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. In the news release, the Company announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, provided an operations update and provided the Companys financial and operational outlook for future periods based on current expectations.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
2
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
___________ (a) Furnished herewith.
 
 
 
3
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
        
News Release
 
Pioneer Natural Resources Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
 
Dallas, Texas, August 4, 2009 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company (NYSE:PXD)
today announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.
 
Pioneer reported a second quarter net loss attributable to common stockholders of $92 million, or $.80 per diluted share. The loss included a noncash unrealized loss on commodity derivatives of $110 million after tax, or $.96 per diluted share. Without the effect of this item, adjusted income for the second quarter of 2009 would have been $18 million, or $.16 per diluted share.
 
Included in Pioneers second quarter results were unusual items that net to a gain of $31 million after tax, or $.26 per diluted share. These after-tax unusual items included:
 
 
Including discontinued operations, second quarter average daily oil and gas production grew by 3% from the prior year quarter to 117 thousand barrels oil equivalent per day (MBOEPD), consistent with second quarter guidance. Second quarter production was negatively impacted by the loss of approximately 2 MBOEPD of production that was shut in during the quarter as a result of unplanned third-party pipeline repairs in Alaska and the Mid-Continent area.
 
Production from continuing operations was 115 MBOEPD, reflecting Pioneers agreement to sell its remaining Gulf of Mexico Shelf properties during the third quarter. Production attributable to these properties was approximately 1,400 barrels oil equivalent per day (BOEPD) during the second quarter.
 
Other highlights related to the quarter include:
 
Scott Sheffield, Chairman and CEO, stated, We remain committed to a free cash flow model, with excess cash flow being used to reduce debt. Despite a significantly reduced capital program for 2009 of approximately $300 million, our high-quality assets delivered production growth of 9% during the first six months compared to last year, and we continue to expect full-year production growth of at least 5% per share.
 
The improving outlook for oil prices, coupled with our strong derivative positions, provide confidence in achieving cash flow of approximately $1 billion in 2010. As a result, we are preparing to resume an oil-focused drilling program with strong returns in the Spraberry field and Tunisia at the beginning of 2010. Additionally, we will continue our successful oil development program in Alaska and actively assess the resource potential of the Eagle Ford Shale play. This drilling program and the expiration of our 5 MBOEPD volumetric production payment obligation at the end of 2009 are expected to once again generate a quarterly production growth profile starting in the first quarter of 2010.
 
In the Spraberry field, first half 2009 daily production increased 12% as compared to the first half of 2008, reflecting the success of the 2008 drilling program, improved well performance and sales of inventoried natural gas liquids (NGLs) that were not fractionated and sold in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of hurricane damage to third-party fractionation facilities. The Company had no rigs running in the Spraberry field during the second quarter but will resume drilling with one rig in August. With substantially reduced well costs and the strip price for oil exceeding $60 per barrel for 2010 and 2011, the Company is planning to have ten to twelve rigs running by January 2010, drilling approximately 250 wells during the year. The majority of these wells will include completions in additional zones, including the Wolfcamp and shale/silt intervals. Pioneer also plans to implement a full-scale waterflood project in 2010.
 
On the North Slope of Alaska, production from Pioneers Oooguruk field averaged 4 thousand barrels of oil per day (MBOPD) during the first half 2009. Second quarter production from high-rate Kuparuk wells was curtailed by approximately 1 MBOPD due to constraints in the third-party water delivery system that provides water for reservoir pressure management. Sufficient water injection volumes are now available to meet current needs. Pioneer plans to drill a total of five horizontal Nuiqsut laterals during the second and third quarters, of which three will be fracture-stimulated production wells and two will be unstimulated water injection wells. The first unstimulated water injector has been producing oil at a stabilized rate of approximately 1 MBOPD and will be converted to injection during August. Early results from the first two fracture-stimulated production wells, which had a combined initial flow rate of 5,400 BOPD, suggest that stabilized production will be two to three times that of the unstimulated injector. Net production from Alaska for second half 2009 is forecast to average 6 MBOPD to 7 MBOPD.
 
In South Texas, Pioneers first half 2009 daily production rose 16% versus the prior year period as a result of a strong drilling program in the Edwards Trend during 2008. The Company fracture stimulated its first horizontal well in the Eagle Ford Shale play where it holds 310,000 acres overlaying the Edwards Trend. The well incurred mechanical problems but still delivered an initial flow rate of 3.7 million cubic feet equivalent per day (MMCFEPD) with only two of five fracture stimulation stages contributing. The Company is implementing a multi-well drilling program beginning in the third quarter to delineate the play and assess its resource potential.
 
In the low-decline Raton and Mid-Continent areas where no drilling took place during the first half of 2009, production was down 4% and 8%, respectively, compared to last year. The reduction in Mid-Continent production included the curtailment of approximately 6 MMCFEPD during the second quarter of 2009 due to an unexpected third-party pipeline repair. The repair has now been completed and production is back to normal at approximately 110 MMCFEPD. Pioneers Mid-Continent production will increase by approximately 28 MMCFEPD on January 1, 2010 with the expiration of a volumetric production payment (VPP) obligation in the Hugoton field.
 
Daily production in Tunisia increased 29% compared to the first half of 2008. Drilling has been curtailed until early 2010 when new 3-D seismic will be fully processed.
 
In South Africa, first half 2009 daily production increased 51% compared to the same period in 2008 reflecting the commencement of production from the most prolific well in Pioneers South
 
Coast Gas project during fourth quarter 2008. Looking forward, a major maintenance shutdown is scheduled during the fourth quarter of 2009 at the Mossel Bay gas-to-liquids plant where the gas production is sold. As a result, fourth quarter forecasted production is expected to be curtailed from approximately 6 MBOEPD to 4 MBOEPD.
 
Pioneer and Pioneer Southwest (the master limited partnership in which Pioneer has a 68% interest) are evaluating the potential sale of certain developed and undeveloped oil and gas properties from Pioneer to Pioneer Southwest, which is dependent on market conditions, among other items.
 
Cost Reduction Initiatives
Pioneers asset teams have continued to aggressively implement initiatives to reduce 2009 LOE. Second quarter LOE was 15% lower compared to the first quarter of 2009. The Company has achieved significant reductions in electricity, water disposal, well servicing, facilities and compression costs.
 
The Company is also continuing to work with service providers to reduce drilling and completion costs. Since the third quarter of 2008, when drilling and completion costs peaked, Pioneer has achieved a reduction of greater than 30% in the cost of drilling and completing a well for the majority of its domestic drilling inventory based on current market conditions.
 
General and administrative expenses were down 4% from the first quarter, again reflecting the Companys focus on reducing costs.
 
Financial Review
 
Second quarter sales from continuing operations averaged 115,436 BOEPD, consisting of oil sales averaging 31,406 barrels per day (BPD), NGL sales averaging 18,921 BPD and gas sales averaging 391 million cubic feet per day (MMCFPD).
 
The reported second quarter average price for oil was $70.89 per barrel and included $8.62 per barrel related to deferred revenue from VPPs for which production was not recorded. The reported price for NGLs was $26.78 per barrel. The reported price for gas was $3.43 per thousand cubic feet (MCF) and included $.35 per MCF related to deferred revenue from VPPs for which production was not recorded.
 
Second quarter production costs averaged $10.33 per barrel oil equivalent (BOE), down $1.92 per BOE or 16%, from the first quarter of 2009, as a result of the Companys cost reduction initiatives and reduced production taxes associated with lower commodity prices.
 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) expense averaged $15.80 per BOE for the second quarter. Exploration and abandonment costs were $22 million for the quarter and included $10 million of acreage and unsuccessful drilling costs and $12 million of geologic and geophysical expenses and personnel costs.
 
Cash flow from operating activities for the second quarter was $224 million.
 
Commodity Derivatives
Prior to February 1, 2009, Pioneer entered into and designated certain commodity and interest rate derivative instruments as cash flow hedges of commodity price risk and interest rate risk in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Effective February 1, 2009, the Company discontinued hedge accounting on all of its existing derivative instruments and since that date has accounted for derivative instruments using the mark-to-market (MTM) accounting method.
 
On January 31, 2009, the Company determined the fair value of its derivative hedge instruments and adjusted the effective portion of its net hedge gains in accumulated other comprehensive income  deferred hedge gains, net of tax (AOCI), in the equity portion of its consolidated balance sheet to $88 million. In accordance with GAAP, the Company transfers the net hedge gains included in AOCI to oil and gas revenues and interest expense in the same periods in which the transactions that they hedged are recognized in earnings. Excluding VPP hedge losses for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2009, the Company transferred $29 million and $67 million of net gains from AOCI to oil and gas revenues, respectively, attributable to discontinued and terminated hedge derivatives.
 
Under the MTM accounting method, since February 1, 2009, the Company has accounted for all changes in the fair values of its derivative instruments as gains or losses in the earnings of the periods in which they occurred. The Companys MTM net derivative losses that were recorded to earnings for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2009 and the scheduled amortization of net deferred gains on discontinued and terminated commodity hedges to oil and gas revenue are shown in the attached schedules.
 
Pioneer has increased its 2010 and 2011 oil and gas derivative positions to support the Companys free cash flow model and the resumption of oil drilling. In particular, the Company added 12,000 BPD of three-way oil collar derivatives in 2010 and 2011, with upside to approximately $90 per barrel and $100 per barrel, respectively. The Company also added 50,000 million British Thermal Units per day of three-way gas collar derivatives in 2011, with upside to $8.55 per million British Thermal Units. The new derivatives bring Pioneers 2010 derivative coverage to 80% of forecasted production for both oil and gas, and 2011 coverage to 65% for oil and 35% for gas.
 
Financial Outlook
 
Third quarter 2009 guidance excludes discontinued operations related to the sale of Gulf of Mexico Shelf properties. The production and expense estimates below include amounts attributable to the public ownership in Pioneer Southwest.
 
Third quarter production is forecasted to average 110,000 BOEPD to 115,000 BOEPD.
 
Third quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes and transportation costs) are expected to average $10.00 to $11.00 per BOE based on current NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. DD&A expense is expected to average $15.50 to $16.50 per BOE, also based on current strip prices.
 
Total exploration and abandonment expense during the third quarter is expected to be $15 million to $25 million, primarily related to exploration wells, including related acreage costs, and seismic and personnel costs.
 
General and administrative expense is expected to be $33 million to $37 million. Interest expense is expected to be $42 million to $45 million. Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be $2 million to $4 million.
 
Noncontrolling interest in consolidated subsidiaries net income is expected to be $4 million to $7 million, primarily reflecting the public ownership in Pioneer Southwest.
 
The Company also expects to recognize $10 million to $15 million of charges in other expense associated with certain drilling rigs stacked as a result of the low price environment.
 
The Companys third quarter effective income tax rate is expected to range from 40% to 50% based on current capital spending plans, higher tax rates in Tunisia and no significant mark-to-market changes in the Companys derivative position. Cash taxes are expected to be $5 million to $10 million and are primarily attributable to Tunisia.
 
 
The Company's financial and MTM results, oil, NGL and gas derivatives, amortization of net deferred gains on discontinued and terminated commodity hedges and future VPP amortization are outlined on the attached schedules.
 
Earnings Conference Call
On Wednesday, August 5 at 9:00 a.m. Central Time, Pioneer will discuss its financial and operating results with an accompanying presentation. The call will be webcast on Pioneers website,
www.pxd.com
. The presentation will be available on the website for preview in advance of the call. At the website, select INVESTORS at the top of the page. For those who cannot listen to the live webcast, a replay will be available shortly thereafter. Or you may choose to dial (877) 741-4240 (confirmation code: 8449625) to listen by telephone and view the accompanying presentation at the website above. A telephone replay will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112 (confirmation code: 8449625).
 
Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company, headquartered in Dallas, with operations in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia. For more information, visit Pioneers website at
www.pxd.com
.
 
Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this News Release are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneers actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, product supply and demand, competition, the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof, other government regulation or action, the ability to obtain approvals from third parties and negotiate agreements with third parties on mutually acceptable terms, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, access to and availability of drilling equipment and transportation, processing and refining facilities, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans or complete its development activities as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, the financial strength of counterparties to Pioneers credit facility and derivative contracts and the purchasers of Pioneers oil, NGL and gas production, uncertainties about estimates of reserves and resource potential and the ability to add proved reserves in the future, the assumptions underlying production forecasts, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, and acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneers 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, Pioneer may be subject to currently unforeseen risks that may have a materially adverse impact on it. Pioneer undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law.
 
Pioneer Natural Resources Contacts:
Investors
Media and Public Affairs
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands)
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except for per share data)
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUMMARY PRODUCTION AND PRICE DATA
 
_____________
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(in thousands)
 
EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow ("DCF") (as defined below) are presented herein, and reconciled to the generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measures of net income (loss) and net cash provided by operating activities because of their wide acceptance by the investment community as financial indicators of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur debt. The Company also views the non-GAAP measures of EBITDAX and DCF as useful tools for comparisons of the Company's financial indicators with those of peer companies that follow the full cost method of accounting. EBITDAX and DCF should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss) or net cash provided by operating activities, as defined by GAAP.
 
_____________
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
       Income adjusted for unrealized mark-to-market derivative losses, net, and loss as adjusted for unrealized mark-to-market derivative losses, net, and unusual credits, net, as presented in this press release are presented and reconciled to Pioneers net loss attributable to common stockholders that is determined in accordance with GAAP because Pioneer believes that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of Pioneers business that, when viewed together with its financial results computed in accordance with GAAP, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting its historical financial performance and future operating results, greater transparency of underlying trends and greater comparability of results across periods. In addition, management believes that these non-GAAP measures may enhance investors ability to assess Pioneers historical and future financial performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be substitutes for the comparable GAAP measure and should be read only in conjunction with Pioneers consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Unrealized mark-to-market derivative gains and losses will recur in future periods and many of the other credits and charges are of a type that could recur in future periods; however, the amount and frequency of each item can vary significantly from period to period. The table below reconciles Pioneers net loss attributable to common stockholders for the three months ended June 30, 2009, as determined in accordance with GAAP, to the income adjusted for unrealized mark-to-market derivative losses, net, and loss as adjusted for unrealized mark-to-market derivative losses, net, and unusual credits, net, for that quarter.
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
Open Commodity Derivative Positions as of August 3, 2009 (a)
 
_____________
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
Amortization of Deferred Revenue Associated with Volumetric
Production Payments and Net Derivative Losses as of June 30, 2009
(in thousands)
 
 
_____________
 
 
 
 
Deferred Gains on Discontinued and Terminated Commodity Hedges
as of June 30, 2009 (a)
(in thousands)
 
 
 
_____________
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
Deferred Losses, Net
(in thousands)
 
 
 
_____________
 
 
 


