FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20090505195354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  May 5, 2009
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(972) 444-9001
Not applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
On May 5, 2009, Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") issued the news release, with financial statements and schedules, that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. In the news release, the Company announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, provided an operations update and provided the Companys financial and operational outlook for future periods based on current expectations.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
2
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
___________
(a) Furnished herewith.
 
 
 
3
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
        
News Release
 
Pioneer Natural Resources Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
 
Dallas, Texas, May 5, 2009 -- Pioneer Natural Resources Company (NYSE:PXD)
today announced financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
 
Financial summary:
 
The net effect of unusual items (on an after-tax basis) in the first quarter reduced the Companys net loss by $2 million, or $.02 per diluted share. These after-tax unusual items were comprised of:
 
 
Scott Sheffield, Chairman and CEO, stated, While our first quarter financial results reflect the current low commodity price environment, our operating results were strong as Pioneers low-decline assets continue to perform above expectations. The aggressive steps we have taken to reduce drilling and production costs, coupled with a $60+ oil price strip for 2010 and 2011 and some recently added commodity price derivatives for this time frame, are giving us increasing confidence that we can get back to a meaningful oil drilling program in the Spraberry field and in Tunisia in early 2010.
 
We remain committed to a free cash flow model, with excess cash flow being used to reduce debt. The Companys 2009 capital program is expected to generate annual production growth of at least 5% per share, with approximately 80% of the capital focused on oil-related activities. Of the remaining 20% for gas-related activities, we have recently reallocated capital for additional appraisal activity in the Eagle Ford Shale play.
 
Operations Update
In the Spraberry field, first quarter 2009 daily production was up 23% compared to first quarter 2008 reflecting the success of the 2008 drilling program. First quarter 2009 production totaled 37 thousand barrels oil equivalent per day (MBOEPD), of which approximately 2,500 barrels per day
 
(BPD) was related to the sales of inventoried natural gas liquids (NGLs) that were not able to be fractionated and sold in the fourth quarter as a result of hurricane damage to third-party fractionation facilities. Under the reduced 2009 capital spending program, Pioneer drilled 17 Spraberry wells during the first quarter of 2009. The Company currently has no rigs drilling in the Spraberry field and is continuing to focus its efforts on achieving further drilling and production cost reductions. The Company has continued its evaluation of shale/silt zones in the Spraberry field with encouraging results. With declining costs, new oil price derivatives and the strip price for oil exceeding $60 per barrel for 2010 and 2011, the outlook for recommencing drilling in early 2010 is improving.
 
In South Texas, Pioneers first quarter 2009 daily production rose 28% versus the prior year quarter as a result of a strong drilling program in 2008. The Company is fracing its first horizontal well in the Eagle Ford Shale play where it holds a substantial acreage position in the gas window. The Eagle Ford Shale overlays the Edwards Trend in the 310,000 acres that Pioneer holds, and the Company plans to drill its second horizontal well in third quarter 2009 to help delineate the field and assess resource potential.
 
On the North Slope of Alaska, production from Pioneers Oooguruk field averaged 3,889 BPD during the first quarter 2009. The Companys water injection plans were delayed until March pending repairs to a third-party water delivery system. Water injection rates remain limited due to constraints in the third-party water delivery system. These limitations will impact production from high-rate Kuparuk wells through most of the second quarter as water injection is critical to managing the reservoir and maximizing recoverable reserves. Pioneer plans to drill and fracture stimulate two Nuiqsut production wells this summer and has forecast 2009 net production to average 5,000 BPD, despite the current water injection constraints. As development drilling continues, production is currently forecast to gradually increase to 10,000 BPD to 14,000 BPD in 2011. Strong well performance and the results of this summers activities will be evaluated later this year to determine potential upside to the production forecast.
 
In South Africa, first quarter 2009 daily production was up 43% compared to the same quarter in 2008 reflecting the commencement of production from the most prolific well in Pioneers South Coast Gas Project during fourth quarter 2008.
 
Daily production in Tunisia was up 60% compared to the first quarter of 2008. Infrastructure is now in place and has allowed production from previously drilled exploration wells to be brought on line.
 
Cost Reduction Initiatives
The Company is continuing to work with service providers to reduce drilling and completion costs. Since the third quarter of 2008, when drilling and completion costs peaked, Pioneer has achieved a reduction of 25% in the cost of drilling and completing a well and is targeting an additional 5% to 10% reduction.
 
Pioneers asset teams are also implementing initiatives to reduce 2009 lease operating expense (LOE) by at least 15% compared to 2008. The Company is targeting cost reductions in electricity, water disposal and compression rental costs while expanding its use of integrated services
.
 
Credit Facility Amendment and Financial Flexibility
Effective April 29, 2009, Pioneer and its lenders amended the Companys unsecured senior credit facility, a five-year $1.5 billion revolving line of credit. While Pioneer was well within compliance with all of its debt covenants, the Company amended the facility to ensure maximum liquidity in lower price environments. Pioneer continues to target free cash flow for 2009, with excess cash flows to be used to reduce debt.
 
 
 
 
 
The amendment changes the ratio of the net present value (NPV) of the Companys oil and gas properties to total debt from 1.75 to 1.0 to 1.5 to 1.0 through March 31, 2011, further strengthening Pioneers financial flexibility. The agreement was also updated to include Pioneers ownership of common units of Pioneer Southwest Energy Partners L.P (Pioneer Southwest) in the calculation of NPV at 75% of market value. The covenant requiring the Company to maintain a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no more than 0.60 to 1.0 was not changed.
 
The amendment also increased the spread on the Companys borrowing rates from 0.75 percent to 2.00 percent and the commitment fee on the undrawn amounts under the credit facility from 0.125 percent to 0.375 percent. The terms of the amendment are covered more fully in the Form 8-K Pioneer filed today.
 
Pioneer continues to evaluate the merits of selling certain oil and gas assets to Pioneer Southwest. The Company cannot predict the timing or ultimate outcome of this action as it is subject to market conditions, among other factors.
 
First Quarter 2009 Financial Review
 
First quarter sales averaged 127,005 BOEPD, consisting of oil sales averaging 34,050 BPD, NGL sales averaging 22,699 BPD and gas sales averaging 422 million cubic feet per day (MMCFPD). First quarter oil production included approximately 2,500 BPD of sales of inventoried NGLs that were not able to be fractionated and sold in the fourth quarter as a result of hurricane damage to third-party fractionation facilities.
 
The reported first quarter average price for oil was $52.82 per barrel and included $8.00 per barrel related to deferred revenue from volumetric production payments (VPPs) for which production was not recorded. The reported price for NGLs was $22.97 per barrel. The reported price for gas was $4.35 per thousand cubic feet (MCF), including $.32 per MCF related to deferred revenue from VPPs for which production was not recorded.
 
First quarter production costs averaged $12.31 per BOE, down $2.66, or 18%, from the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the Companys cost reduction initiatives and reduced production taxes associated with lower commodity prices.
 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) expense averaged $16.85 per barrel oil equivalent (BOE) for the first quarter. DD&A expense increased primarily as a result of negative gas price revisions to proved reserves related to the significant drop in gas prices from year-end 2008. The majority of the DD&A expense increase is comprised of incremental Raton area depletion as a substantial portion of the Raton area proved undeveloped reserves were uneconomical at quarter-end gas prices.
 
Exploration and abandonment costs were $31 million for the quarter and included $19 million of acreage and unsuccessful drilling costs and $12 million of geologic and geophysical expenses and personnel costs.
 
During 2009, the Company has increased its 2010 and 2011 oil and gas derivatives positions to support the resumption of oil drilling in those years. Specifically, the Company has derivative positions covering 30% and 70% of its 2010 forecasted oil and gas production, respectively, and 25% of its forecasted 2011 oil production.
 
Cash flow from operating activities for the first quarter was $24 million and reflects the use of $68 million for changes in operating assets and liabilities.
 
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter 2009 Financial Outlook
 
Second quarter 2009 production is forecasted to average 117,000 BOEPD to 122,000 BOEPD. The production range includes production that is attributable to the public ownership in Pioneer Southwest. The expense estimates below also include amounts attributable to the public ownership in Pioneer Southwest.
 
Second quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes and transportation costs) are expected to average $12.00 to $13.00 per BOE based on current NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. DD&A expense is expected to average $16.00 to $17.00 per BOE, also based on current strip prices.
 
Total exploration and abandonment expense during the second quarter is expected to be $15 million to $25 million, primarily related to exploration wells in progress, including related acreage costs, and seismic and personnel costs.
 
General and administrative expense is expected to be $33 million to $37 million. Interest expense is expected to be $42 million to $45 million. Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be $2 million to $4 million.
 
Noncontrolling interest in consolidated subsidiaries net income is expected to be $4 million to $7 million, primarily reflecting the public ownership in Pioneer Southwest.
 
The Company also expects to recognize $15 million to $20 million of charges in other expense associated with certain drilling rigs being terminated and stacked as a result of the Companys low price environment initiatives.
 
The Companys second quarter effective income tax rate is expected to range from 40% to 50% based on current capital spending plans. Cash taxes are expected to be $5 million to $10 million and are primarily attributable to Tunisia.
 
Second quarter 2009 amortization of deferred gains on terminated oil and gas hedges is expected to be $12 million. The Company's financial results, oil, NGL and gas derivatives and future VPP amortization are outlined on the attached schedules.
 
Earnings Conference Call
On Wednesday, May 6 at 9:00 a.m. Central Time, Pioneer will discuss its financial and operating results with an accompanying presentation. The call will be webcast on Pioneers website,
www.pxd.com
. The presentation will be available on the website for preview in advance of the call. At the website, select INVESTORS at the top of the page. For those who cannot listen to the live webcast, a replay will be available shortly thereafter. Or you may choose to dial (877) 852-6543 (confirmation code: 3551546) to listen by telephone and view the accompanying presentation at the website above. A telephone replay will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112 (confirmation code: 3551546).
 
Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company, headquartered in Dallas, with operations in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia. For more information, visit Pioneers website at www.pxd.com.
 
Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this News Release are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and the business prospects of Pioneer are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneers actual results in future periods to differ materially from the
 
 
 
 
forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, product supply and demand, competition, the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof, other government regulation or action, the ability to obtain approvals from third parties and negotiate agreements with third parties on mutually acceptable terms, international operations and associated international political and economic instability, litigation, the costs and results of drilling and operations, access to and availability of drilling equipment and transportation, processing and refining facilities, Pioneer's ability to replace reserves, implement its business plans or complete its development projects as scheduled, access to and cost of capital, the financial strength of counterparties to Pioneers credit facility and derivative contracts and the purchasers of Pioneers oil, NGL and gas
production, uncertainties about estimates of reserves and resource potential and the ability to add proved reserves in the future, the assumptions underlying production forecasts, quality of technical data, environmental and weather risks, and acts of war or terrorism. These and other risks are described in Pioneers 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, Pioneer may be subject to currently unforeseen risks that may have a materially adverse impact on it. Pioneer undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law.
 
Pioneer Natural Resources Contacts:
Investors
Media and Public Affairs
 
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands)
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except for per share data)
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUMMARY PRODUCTION AND PRICE DATA
 
 
 
_____________
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(in thousands)
 
EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow ("DCF") (as defined below) are presented herein, and reconciled to the generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measures of net income (loss) and net cash provided by operating activities because of their wide acceptance by the investment community as financial indicators of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur debt. The Company also views the non-GAAP measures of EBITDAX and DCF as useful tools for comparisons of the Company's financial indicators with those of peer companies that follow the full cost method of accounting. EBITDAX and DCF should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss) or net cash provided by operating activities, as defined by GAAP.
 
 
_____________
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Loss as adjusted for significant credits and charges, as presented in this press release, is presented and reconciled to Pioneer's net loss determined in accordance with GAAP because Pioneer believes that this non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of Pioneer's business that, when viewed together with its final results computed in accordance with GAAP, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting its historical financial performance and future operating results, greater transparency of underlying trends and greater comparability of results across periods. In addition, management believes that this non-GAAP measure may enhance investors' ability to assess Pioneer's historical and future financial performance. This non-GAAP financial measure is not intended to be a substitute for the comparable GAAP measure and should be read only in conjunction with Pioneer's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Many of the significant credits and charges are types that could recur in future periods; however, the amount and frequency of each item can vary significantly from period to period. The table below reconciles Pioneer's net loss attributable to common stockholders for the three months ended March 31, 2009, as determined in accordance with GAAP, to loss as adjusted for significant credits and charges for that quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
Open Commodity Hedge Positions as of May 1, 2009 (a)
 
_____________
 
 
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
Amortization of Deferred Revenue Associated with Volumetric
Production Payments and Net Derivative Losses as of March 31, 2009
(in thousands)
 
 
_____________
 
 
 
Deferred Gains on Terminated Commodity Hedges as of March 31, 2009 (a)
(in thousands)
 
 
_____________
 
 
 
 


