FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20110518163859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act )
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)
 
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
The annual meeting of stockholders of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the Company) was held on May 17, 2011 in Irving, Texas. At the meeting, six proposals were submitted for a vote of stockholders, as described in the Companys Proxy Statement dated April 4, 2011 (the Proxy Statement). The following is a brief description of each proposal and the results of the stockholders votes.
 
Prior to the meeting, the Board designated three nominees as Class II Directors, Edison C. Buchanan, R. Hartwell Gardner and Jim A. Watson, with their terms to expire at the annual meeting in 2014 and until their successors are elected and qualified. Messrs. Buchanan, Gardner and Watson were, at the time of such nomination and at the time of the meeting, directors of the Company.  Each nominee was elected as a director of the Company, with the results of the stockholder voting being as follows:
Election of Directors.
 
 
In addition, the term of office for the following directors continued after the annual meeting: Scott D. Sheffield, Thomas D. Arthur, Andrew F. Cates, Andrew D. Lundquist, Charles E. Ramsey, Jr., Scott J. Reiman and Frank A. Risch.
 
The engagement of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys independent auditors for 2011 was submitted to the stockholders for ratification. Such engagement was ratified, with the results of the stockholder voting being as follows:
Ratification of selection of independent auditors.
 
 
The Company submitted to the stockholders for approval, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Companys named executive officers, as disclosed in the Proxy Statement. The proposal was approved, with the results of the stockholder voting being as follows:
Advisory vote on executive compensation.
 
 
The Company submitted to the stockholders, on an advisory basis, a proposal as to whether to have the advisory vote on executive compensation on the agenda for future annual stockholders meetings every one, two or three years. The results of the stockholder voting on this proposal were as follows:
Advisory vote regarding the frequency of stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
In light of the voting results, it is the current intention of the Companys Board of Directors to include an advisory stockholder vote on executive compensation, or say-on-pay vote, in the Companys proxy statement on an annual basis until the Company next holds an advisory vote on the frequency of say-on-pay votes as required under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
There were two non-binding stockholder proposals presented for a vote at the meeting:
Stockholder Proposals.
 
A stockholder proposed that the Companys Board of Directors initiate a process to amend the Companys corporate governance documents to require that director nominees be elected by the affirmative vote of the majority of votes cast at an annual meeting, with a plurality vote standard retained for contested director elections. The results of the stockholder voting on this proposal were as follows:
 
 
A stockholder proposed that the Companys Board of Directors take the steps necessary to eliminate the classification of the Board of Directors, and to require that, commencing no later than the annual meeting of 2013, all directors stand for elections annually. The results of the stockholder voting on this proposal were as follows:
 
 
3
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 


