FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20110805160406.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 31, 2011, the Rights Agreement dated as of July 20, 2001 (as amended, the "Rights Agreement"), of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the Company or Pioneer) expired pursuant to its terms, as did the preferred share purchase rights (Rights) issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement.
An updated description of the capital stock of the Company to reflect the fact that the Rights are no longer outstanding is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 5, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Filed herewith.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Pioneers authorized capital stock consists of 600,000,000 shares of stock, including:
 
 
Common Stock
 
This section describes the general terms of Pioneers common stock. More detailed information is contained in Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, copies of which have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).
 
Holders of Pioneers common stock are entitled to one vote per share with respect to each matter submitted to a vote of Pioneers stockholders, subject to voting rights that may be established for shares of Pioneers preferred stock, if any. Except as may be provided in connection with Pioneers preferred stock or as otherwise may be required by law or Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Pioneers common stock is the only capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors. Pioneers common stock does not have cumulative voting rights.
 
Subject to the rights of holders of Pioneers preferred stock, if any, holders of Pioneers common stock are entitled to receive dividends and distributions lawfully declared by Pioneers board of directors. If Pioneer liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, holders of Pioneers common stock will be entitled to receive any assets available for distribution to Pioneers stockholders after Pioneer has paid or set apart for payment the amounts necessary to satisfy any preferential or participating rights to which the holders of each outstanding series of preferred stock are entitled by the express terms of such series of preferred stock.
 
The outstanding shares of Pioneers common stock are fully paid and nonassessable. Pioneers common stock does not have any preemptive, subscription or conversion rights. Pioneer may issue additional shares of its authorized common stock as it is authorized by its board of directors from time to time, without stockholder approval, except as may be required by applicable stock exchange requirements.
Preferred Stock
 
This section describes the general terms and provisions of Pioneers preferred stock. If Pioneer issues a new series of preferred stock, it will file a copy of the certificate of designations that contains the terms of that series with the SEC. Each certificate of designations will establish the number of shares included in a designated series and fix the designation, powers, privileges, preferences and rights of the shares of each series as well as any applicable qualifications, limitations or restrictions.
 
Pioneers board of directors has been authorized to provide for the issuance of shares of Pioneers preferred stock in multiple series without the approval of stockholders. With respect to each series of Pioneers preferred stock, Pioneers board of directors has the authority to fix the following terms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A preferred stockholders rights with respect to such holders shares of preferred stock will be subordinate to the rights of Pioneers general creditors. Shares of Pioneers preferred stock that Pioneer issues will be fully paid and nonassessable and will not be entitled to preemptive rights unless specified in the applicable certificate of designations.
 
Pioneers ability to issue preferred stock, or rights to purchase such shares, could discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For example, Pioneer could impede a business combination by issuing a series of preferred stock containing class voting rights that would enable the holders of such preferred stock to block a business combination transaction. Alternatively, Pioneer could facilitate a business combination transaction by issuing a series of preferred stock having sufficient voting rights to provide a required percentage vote of the stockholders. Additionally, under certain circumstances, Pioneers issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of Pioneers common stock. Although Pioneers board of directors is required to make any determination to issue any preferred stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of Pioneers stockholders, Pioneers board of directors could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of Pioneers stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which stockholders might receive a premium for their stock over prevailing market prices of such stock. Pioneers board of directors does not at present intend to seek stockholder approval prior to any issuance of currently authorized stock, unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange requirements.
Limitation on Directors Liability
 
Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, as authorized by Section 102(b)(7) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, that a director of Pioneer will not be personally liable to Pioneer or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The inclusion of this provision in Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors, and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors for breach of their duty of care, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited Pioneer and its stockholders.
Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law
 
Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a defined set of transactions between a Delaware corporation, such as Pioneer, and an interested stockholder. An interested stockholder is defined as a person who, together with any affiliates or associates of such person, beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting shares of a Delaware corporation. This provision may prohibit business combinations between an interested stockholder and a corporation for a period of three years after the date the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. The term business combination is broadly defined to include a broad array of transactions, including mergers, consolidations, sales or other dispositions of assets having a total value in excess of 10% of the consolidated assets of the corporation or all of the outstanding stock of the corporation, and some other transactions that would increase the interested stockholders proportionate share ownership in the corporation.
This prohibition is effective unless:
Special Charter and Bylaw Provisions
 
Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions requiring that advance notice be delivered to Pioneer of any business to be brought by a stockholder before an annual meeting of stockholders and providing for certain procedures to be followed by stockholders in nominating persons for election to Pioneers board of directors. Generally, such advance notice provisions provide that the stockholder must give written notice to Pioneers Secretary not less than 60 days before the scheduled date of the annual meeting of Pioneers stockholders or, if later, ten days after the first public notice of the annual meeting is sent to Pioneers stockholders. The notice must set forth specific information regarding such stockholder and such business or director nominee, as described in Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Such requirement is in addition to those set forth in the regulations adopted by the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any rights of holders of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, the number of directors shall not be fewer than three or more than 21 and provides for a classified board of directors, consisting of three classes as nearly equal in size as practicable. Each class holds office until the third annual stockholders meeting for election of directors following the most recent election of such class. Pioneers directors may be removed only for cause.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that stockholders may not act by written consent in lieu of a meeting. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called by Pioneers board of directors, but may not be called by Pioneers stockholders. Pioneers amended and restated bylaws may be amended by Pioneers board of directors or by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of the aggregate voting power of Pioneers outstanding capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors.
 
Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation also contains a fair price provision that applies to certain business combination transactions involving any person or group that beneficially owns at least 10% of the aggregate voting power of Pioneers outstanding capital stock, referred to as a related person. The fair price provision requires the affirmative vote of the holders of:
to approve certain transactions between the related person and Pioneer or its subsidiaries, including any merger, consolidation or share exchange, any sale, lease, exchange, pledge or other disposition of Pioneers assets or its subsidiaries having a fair market value of at least $10 million, any transfer or issuance of Pioneers securities or its subsidiaries securities, any adoption of a plan or proposal by Pioneer of its voluntary liquidation or dissolution, certain reclassifications of Pioneers securities or recapitalizations or certain other transactions, in each case involving the related person.
This voting requirement will not apply to certain transactions, including:
This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing change in control in a transaction or series of transactions that did not satisfy the fair price criteria.
 
The provisions of Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the limitation of actions taken by written consent and the fair price provision may be amended only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the aggregate voting power of Pioneers outstanding capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors.
The foregoing provisions of Pioneers amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Pioneers amended and restated bylaws, together with the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or the removal of existing management, of deterring potential acquirors from making an offer to Pioneers stockholders and of limiting any opportunity to realize premiums over prevailing market prices for Pioneers common stock in connection therewith. This could be the case notwithstanding that a majority of Pioneers stockholders might benefit from such a change in control or offer.
 
 
 
Transfer Agent and Registrar
Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company serves as the registrar and transfer agent for the common stock.
Stock Exchange Listing
Pioneers common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The trading symbol for Pioneers common stock is PXD.
 
 
 


