FILE:PXD/PXD-8K-20120228162634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 22, 2012, the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the Company) took the following actions with regard to the compensation of the Companys named executive officers (the executive officers of the Company for whom disclosure was required in the Companys proxy statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders):
1. The Committee determined not to increase the base salaries of the named executive officers for 2012 compared to 2011.
 
2. The Committee approved the payout of cash bonus awards to the named executive officers under the Companys Annual Incentive Bonus Plan, based on the Committees assessment of 2011 performance, as follows:
 
 
3. The Committee established targets for the Companys named executive officers for 2012 bonuses payable in 2013 under the Companys Annual Incentive Bonus Plan. The 2012 bonus target is shown as a percentage of 2012 base salary, and the actual amount paid may be at, above (up to 250% of the target) or below the target level:
 
4. The Committee made awards of restricted stock, performance units and stock options under the Companys 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan to the named executive officers, as follows.
 
The restricted stock awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided the officer remains employed with the Company. Mr. Sheffields and Mr. Kellums awards were granted in the form of restricted stock units, which generally have the same terms as the restricted stock, including being settled in Common Stock of the Company after a three-year vesting period.  The vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units accelerates upon a change in control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance units entitle the recipient to the payment of shares if, and only if, the performance of the Companys common stock relative to that of the Companys peers ranks the Company above a threshold level. Payouts can range from zero percent to 250 percent of the target number of performance units depending on the Companys relative ranking. Dividends declared during the performance period will be paid at the end of the three-year performance period only on shares delivered for earned units up to a maximum of target shares. Vesting of unearned performance units accelerates upon a change in control.
 
The stock options will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided the officer remains employed with the Company. The options have a ten-year term with an exercise price of $113.76, the most recently reported closing price of the Companys common stock as of the date immediately prior to the date of grant. Upon the occurrence of a change in control, the options will become immediately exercisable.
              The Committee also determined to recommend to the Board of Directors of the general partner of Pioneer Southwest Energy Partners L.P. (the Partnership) that the general partners board approve the grant of phantom units to Messrs. Sheffield, Dealy and Kellum that, upon vesting, would entitle the recipient to receive common units of the Partnership. The Committee recommended that Mr. Sheffield be granted 24,618 phantom units, that Mr. Dealy be granted 8,206 phantom units and that Mr. Kellum be granted 4,663, and that the phantom units provide that they would vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided the officer remains employed with the general partner or any of its affiliates, including the Company. On February 22, 2012, the Board of Directors of the general partner approved the grants of phantom units as recommended by the Committee.
 
5. The Committee made special retention grants of restricted stock awards under the Companys 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan to certain of the named executive officers, as follows.
 
The restricted stock awards will vest in equal one-third increments on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant, provided the officer remains employed with the Company. Mr. Doves and Mr. Kellums awards were granted in the form of restricted stock units, which generally have the same terms as the restricted stock awards, including the vesting schedule. The vesting of the retention awards would accelerate upon a change in control.
 
 
 
 
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


