FILE:AN/AN-8K-20051123172152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On November 18, 2005, the Company established the AutoNation, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), effective December 1, 2005, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The Plan is a non-qualified, deferred compensation plan available to a select group of management and highly-compensated employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, including executive officers of the Company, to enable them to defer receipt of up to 75% of their base salary and up to 90% of their compensation other than base salary each year. The Plan also allows for discretionary contributions by the Company on behalf of participants. On November 18, 2005, the Company's Deferred Compensation Committee, which administers the Plan, approved matching contributions for fiscal year 2006 (and thereafter unless modified by the Deferred Compensation Committee) for persons who participate in the Plan in the amount of 50% of contributions up to $8,000. Such matching contributions will vest one-third upon contribution by the Company to the participant's account and one-third on each anniversary thereafter. The deferred compensation obligations of the Company (the "Obligations") are considered unsecured general obligations of the Company to pay the deferred compensation in the future in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
     The amounts of the Obligations include compensation deferred by participants, Company discretionary contributions (if any), and deemed investment returns, positive or negative, thereon that are credited to the accounts in accordance with the terms of the Plan. The deemed investment returns for each participant are based on investment allocation elections that each participant makes from the deemed investment options (which are based on investment funds representing a broad range of asset classes) made available under the Plan. Each Obligation is payable in cash either in a lump sum distribution or in installments following a participant's retirement, termination of employment, death, disability or other dates selected by the participant at the time of his or her compensation deferral election. In the event of an unforeseeable emergency, a participant may be permitted an earlier cash distribution.
     The Plan may be amended, modified or terminated at any time, provided that such amendment, modification or termination may not adversely affect benefits already accrued without the consent of the affected participants.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
10.1 AutoNation, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 23, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
AutoNation, Inc.
Deferred Compensation
Plan
Effective December 1, 2005
 
AutoNation, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan
 
Article I
Establishment and Purpose
AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") hereby adopts the AutoNation, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), effective December 1, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). The purpose of the Plan is to provide each Participant with an opportunity to defer receipt of a portion of his or her salary, bonus and other specified cash compensation. The Plan is not intended to meet the qualification requirements of Section 401(a) of the Code. The Plan is intended: (i) to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A and other relevant provisions of the Act; (ii) to be an unfunded arrangement providing deferred compensation to eligible employees who are part of a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA; (iii) to be exempt from the requirements of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA as a "top hat" plan; and (iv) to be eligible for the alternative method of compliance for reporting and disclosure available for unfunded "top hat" plans.
Article II
Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article III
Eligibility and Participation
Article IV
Deferral Elections
 
 
4.6   .
In Service Distributions
 
 
Article V
Company Contributions
Article VI
Valuation of Accounts; Deemed Investments
 
Article VII
Distribution and Withdrawals
 
 
 
Article VIII
Administration
 
Article IX
Amendment and Termination
Article X
Informal Funding
 
Article XI
Claims
 
 
 
Article XII
General Conditions
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executed this Plan as of the 23
rd
day of November, 2005 to be effective as of the Effective Date.
AutoNation, Inc.


