FILE:AN/AN-8K-20050615090355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On June 15, 2005, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the initiation of coverage by Fitch Ratings on the Company's unsecured debt with a 'BBB-' investment grade rating. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference. The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Section 11 or 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference i n such filing.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

For Immediate Release
Contact: Marc Cannon
(954) 769-3146
cannonm@autonation ..com
AutoNation, Inc. (), America's largest automotive retailer, today announced that Fitch Ratings has initiated coverage on its unsecured debt with a BBB- investment grade rating. This new rating matches Standard & Poors' existing investment-grade rating and reaffirms AutoNation as the only public automotive retailer with an investment-grade unsecured debt rating.
FORT LAUDERDALE, FLA. (June 15, 2005)-
NYSE: AN
"Fitch and S&P recognize the strength of AutoNation's diversified business model," said Mike Jackson, Chairman and CEO of AutoNation. "Together, their investment grade ratings are a validation of our model and financial discipline. Over the last five years, we have strengthened our financial position through a disciplined redeployment of over $4 billion in cash from operations and other financial opportunities."
As a result of the new rating, AutoNation expects to enter the Lehman U.S. Investment Grade Fixed Income Index on July 1, 2005. Lehman's indices are the asset management industry's most widely held benchmarks, used by more than 90% of U.S. institutional investors along with a significant number of foreign investors.
Over the next couple of years, AutoNation's investment-grade status should allow the company to restructure its floorplan and non-vehicle debt facilities, improving its credit spreads by approximately 100 basis points.
AutoNation's diversified business model emphasizes a broad set of related but distinct business lines, including new vehicles, used vehicles, parts and service, and finance and insurance, as well as being diversified by geography and manufacturer brands. This model limits the company's exposure to downturns in specific market segments while enabling it to capitalize on favorable conditions in others.
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer. A component of the Standard and Poors' 500 Index, AutoNation has approximately 27,000 full-time employees and owns and operates 352 new vehicle franchises in 17 states. For additional information, please visit
http://corp.AutoNation.com
or
www.AutoNation.com
, where more than 100,000 vehicles are available for sale.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements, including its earnings outlook.


