FILE:AN/AN-8K-20050428091935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 28, 2005, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the press release and related quarterly financial data supplement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Section 11 or 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 28, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Marc Cannon (954) 769-3146 cannonm@autonation.com
, America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2005 first-quarter net income from continuing operations of $88 million or $0.33 per share, compared to year-ago net income from continuing operations of $89 million or $0.32 per share. During the quarter, the Company repurchased $95 million in face value of its senior notes, incurring repurchase costs of approximately $9 million after tax, or $.03 per share. Excluding this impact, the Company's first-quarter adjusted net income from continuing operations was $97 million or $0.36 per share, an increase of 13% over the prior year, primarily as a result of strong revenue growth in parts and service, gross margin increases in new and used vehicles, continued leverage of the Company's cost structure, and the repurchase of common stock, partially offset by higher floorplan interest expense due to rising rates.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (April 28, 2005) - AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN)
     First-quarter 2005 revenue totaled $4.6 billion, up slightly from a year ago. Operating income was a record for the first-quarter at $199 million, an increase of 9% compared to the prior year.
     Commenting on first-quarter 2005 performance, AutoNation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson said, "We are especially pleased with our ability to grow operating income by 9% and adjusted EPS by 13% in a challenging new vehicle environment. AutoNation's performance in the first-quarter was driven by an increase in new vehicle gross margins, greatly improved used vehicle pricing, and strong parts and service growth combined with our continued discipline in cost and inventory management and redeployment of cash. During the first-quarter, we took advantage of our financial flexibility to capitalize on an opportunity to retire a significant portion of our most expensive debt." At the end of first-quarter 2005, AutoNation's new vehicle inventory level was 60 days supply versus 67 days at the end of first-quarter 2004, representing a decline of 12,000 units, or 13%.
     AutoNation will discuss these results and information regarding the Company's business and operating environment during a conference call and audio webcast this morning at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. To listen to the live conference call, dial (800) 762-6067 or listen to the audio webcast via the Internet at by clicking on the "About Us" link, then clicking on "Investors" and then "Webcasts." A playback of the conference call will be available after 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time through May 5, 2005 by calling (800) 475-6701 (access code #778614) or via the Internet as outlined above.
www.AutoNation.com
 
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and a component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index. In 2004 AutoNation was named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer for the 4th year in a row. AutoNation has approximately 27,000 full-time employees and owns and operates 352 new vehicle franchises in 17 states. For additional information, please visit http://corp.AutoNation.com or www.AutoNation.com, where more than 100,000 vehicles are available for sale.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements, including its earnings outlook. This release and the attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, adjusted in each case to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations.
 
 
 
 
Business Assumptions Impacting Long-term Average EPS Growth Target of 10% to 12% Per Year:
Note
The Company's parts and service departments provide reconditioning repair work for used vehicles acquired by the used vehicle department and minor preparatory work for new vehicles. The parts and service departments charge the new and used departments as if they were third parties in order to account for total activity performed by that department. The Company has determined that the revenue and related cost of sales of both new and used vehicles had not been reduced by the intracompany charge for such work. Commencing with the second quarter of 2004, the Company is making the adjustment and has revised amounts previously reported by reducing new and used vehicle revenue and cost of sales by the amount of the intracompany charge. The adjustments have no impact on total gross profit, operating income, income from continuing operations, net income, earnings per share, cash flows, or financial position for any period or their respective trends.
The effect of the adjustments was to reduce both revenue and cost of sales for new vehicles by $21 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004, respectively, and for used vehicles by $50 million for the same period, respectively. Accordingly, the Company's revenue-based performance metrics, such as revenue per vehicle, gross profit as a percent of revenue, and SG&A as a percent of revenue, also have been revised. These revisions do not have a material impact on the amounts for any period or respective trends.
 
 
The following unaudited quarterly consolidated income statements for the periods presented have been adjusted to classify certain stores as discontinued operations as of March 31, 2005.


