FILE:AN/AN-8K-20060209084335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 9, 2006, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release and related quarterly financial data supplement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 9, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(NYSE: AN), America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2005 fourth-quarter net income from continuing operations of $80 million or $0.30 per share, on revenue of $4.5 billion. The results compare to 2004 fourth-quarter net income from continuing operations of $116 million or $0.43 per share on revenue of $4.8 billion. Excluding certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables, the Company's fourth-quarter EPS from continuing operations was $0.31versus $0.34 in the prior year, a decline of 9%.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (February 9, 2006) - AutoNation, Inc.
     "Two factors directly impacted our fourth-quarter earnings," said Mike Jackson, chairman and chief executive officer of AutoNation. "We suffered an estimated $0.04 per share impact from Hurricane Wilma, which caused substantial property damage and disruption to our business in Florida. In addition, the auto retail sales environment was challenging in the fourth quarter."
     For full-year 2005, the Company reported net income from continuing operations of $396 million or $1.48 per share, compared to $397 million or $1.46 per share in 2004. Excluding certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables, the Company's full-year EPS from continuing operations was $1.45, up 7% from $1.36 in the prior year. The Company's revenue for the full year totaled $19.3 billion, an increase of 1% versus the prior year. Operating income for full-year 2005 was $807 million, an increase of over 5%.
     Commenting on the year ahead, Jackson said, "Looking ahead, we believe that in 2006 U.S. industry sales of new vehicles will be nearly 17 million units for the eighth year in a row."
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and a component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index. For the 4th year in a row, AutoNation was named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer. AutoNation has approximately 27,000 full-time employees and owns and operates 345 new vehicle franchises in 17 states. For additional information, please visit or , where more than 100,000 vehicles are available for sale.
http://corp.AutoNation.com
www.AutoNation.com
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements, including its long-term growth targets.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
This release and the attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three and twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, adjusted in each case to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations.
 
 
 
 
 
Business Assumptions Impacting Long-term Average EPS Growth Target of 10% to 12% Per Year:
 


