FILE:AN/AN-8K-20060622190610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) On June 22, 2006, the Board of Directors of AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Robert R. Grusky and Carlos A. Migoya to serve as directors of the Company and as members of the Companys Audit Committee. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The appointments, which are effective as of June 22, 2006, increase the size of the Companys Board of Directors to nine (9) members and the Companys Audit Committee to four (4) members. The appointments of Messrs. Grusky and Migoya to the Companys Audit Committee cure the previously disclosed non-compliance by the Company with Section 303A.07(a) of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") Listed Company Manual (which requires listed companies to have at least three (3) audit committee members) that resulted from the retirement on June 1, 2006 of a former director who served on the Audit Committee. Accordingly, the Company is fully compliant with ap plicable NYSE corporate governance standards. The Board of Directors determined that Messrs. Grusky and Migoya qualify as independent under the director independence standard set forth in the AutoNation, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines and under applicable NYSE corporate governance standards. The Board of Directors also determined that Messrs. Grusky and Migoya meet all qualifications to serve on the Audit Committee under applicable rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and NYSE governing audit committee members, and that Mr. Grusky is an "audit committee financial expert" under applicable SEC standards.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed with this Current Report pursuant to Item 5.02: (d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated June 22, 2006 issued by AutoNation, Inc.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
(NYSE: AN), America's largest automotive retailer, announced today that its Board of Directors has appointed Robert R. Grusky and Carlos A. Migoya as indendepent directors of the Company. These additions expand AutoNation's Board from seven to nine members and increase the number of independent directors to seven. Messrs. Grusky and Migoya were also appointed to serve on the Company's Audit Committee.
Fort Lauderdale, Fla. (June 22, 2006) - AutoNation, Inc.
"We are very pleased that Bob and Carlos are joining our Board," said Mike Jackson, Chairman and CEO of AutoNation. "They each have strong business and financial backgrounds, and we look forward to the contributions that they will make to our Board."
Mr. Grusky is the Managing Member of Hope Capital Management, LLC, an investment firm that he founded in 2000. He also serves as a Senior Advisor to New Mountain Capital, LLC, a private equity firm that he co-founded in 2000, and served as a Managing Director and Principal until 2005. Previously, between 1985 and 1997, Mr. Grusky also served in various capacities, including Vice President, for Goldman, Sachs & Co. in its Mergers & Acquisitions Department and Principal Investment Area.
Mr. Migoya serves as Regional President for Wachovia Bank, Florida. In his present position with Wachovia, Mr. Migoya is responsible for Wachovia's banking businesses in Dade and Monroe Counties in Florida. Mr. Migoya has more than 32 years' experience in banking.
ABOUT AUTONATION, INC.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and a component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index. AutoNation has approximately 27,000 full-time employees and owns and operates 345 new vehicle franchises in 16 states. For additional information, please visit or , where more than 100,000 vehicles are available for sale.
http://corp.AutoNation.com
www.AutoNation.com


