FILE:AN/AN-8K-20070426103929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 26, 2007, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release and related quarterly financial data supplement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On April 25, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional $500 million for the repurchase of its common stock. The Company has $42.1 million remaining under the $250 million share repurchase program authorized in June 2006.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 26, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Marc Cannon
(954) 769-3146 cannonm@autonation.com
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported earnings from continuing operations of $0.39 per share compared to year-ago earnings from continuing operations of $0.37 per share, an increase of 5%. The first-quarter EPS was positively affected by the accretive impact of share repurchases, including the $1.15 billion April 2006 share buyback, and certain tax adjustments, substantially offset by a decline in new vehicle sales especially in California and Florida.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla (April 26, 2007) AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN)
In the first quarter, industry new vehicle retail sales for California and Florida were off approximately 13%, based on CNW Research data, in line with AutoNation's decline for new vehicles sales for California and Florida. Together, California and Florida represent approximately 50% of the Company's new vehicle business.
Commenting on the first-quarter and year ahead, Mike Jackson, chairman and chief executive officer said, "It is a very challenging economic environment for new vehicle sales, driven in large part by continued softening in the housing market and higher interest rates, especially in California and Florida." Mr. Jackson also noted, "As long as the housing market continues to be soft in California and Florida, it will continue to be a challenging market for new vehicle sales. AutoNation continues to have confidence in California and Florida and views them as healthy markets over the long term."
First quarter 2007 net income from continuing operations was $83 million compared to year-ago net income from continuing operations of $98 million. Results were negatively impacted by an after-tax $9 million increase ($15 million pre-tax) in other interest expense in 2007, primarily due to additional debt incurred in connection with our April 2006 share buyback which was accretive to EPS, as well as lower new vehicle sales especially in California and Florida. Additionally, the first quarter benefited from certain tax adjustments.
Separately, the Company's Board of Directors has authorized an additional $500 million for the repurchase of its common stock. The Company has $42.1 million remaining under the $250 million share repurchase program authorized in June 2006.
The first quarter conference call may be accessed at 11:00 am Eastern Time by phone at 888-531-2987 or via the Internet (audio webcast) at by clicking on the "About Us" link then clicking on "Investors" and then "Webcasts." A playback of the conference call will
http://www.AutoNation.com
 
be available after 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time April 26, 2007 through May 3, 2007 by calling 800-475-6701 (access code # 867361).
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation has approximately 25,000 full-time employees and owns and operates 327 new vehicle franchises in 16 states. For additional information, please visit
http://corp.AutoNation.com or www.AutoNation.com
, where more than 90,000 vehicles are available for sale.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements, including its long-term growth targets.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2007 adjusted in each case to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations.
 
 
 
 
 
* Please refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of the Press Release.
Business Assumptions Impacting Long-term Average EPS Growth Target of 10% to 12% Per Year:
 


