FILE:AN/AN-8K-20070326093520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 23, 2007, Edward S. Lampert, who has served as a director of AutoNation, Inc. ("the Company") since 2002, informed the Company that he will not stand for re-election to the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company at the Companys 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2007 Annual Meeting") in order to devote more time to his duties as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ESL Investments, Inc. and Chairman of Sears Holdings Corporation. Mr. Lampert will continue to serve as a member of the Board and as Chair of the Boards Compensation Committee until the 2007 Annual Meeting. A copy of a press release issued by the Company announcing Mr. Lamperts decision to not stand for re-election to the Board at the 2007 Annual Meeting is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 99.1 Press Release dated March 26, 2007 issued by AutoNation, Inc.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
 AutoNation, Inc
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, March 26, 2007
. (NYSE: AN),
AutoNation, Inc. announced today that Edward S. Lampert, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ESL Investments, Inc. ("ESL") and Chairman of Sears Holdings Corporation, will not be standing for re-election to the AutoNation Board of Directors, in order to devote more time to other duties at ESL and Sears Holdings. Mr. Lampert will remain on the AutoNation Board until the upcoming annual meeting of AutoNation shareholders in May 2007.
"It has been my privilege to serve for the past five years on the Board of AutoNation, the leading automotive retailer in America," said Mr. Lampert. "I look forward to continuing to be involved with the company, and ESL currently plans to remain a significant shareholder for the foreseeable future." Bill Crowley, the President and Chief Operating Officer of ESL, who has been a member of the AutoNation Board of Directors since 2002, will continue to serve on the AutoNation Board. ESL owns approximately 24% of AutoNation's outstanding common stock.
Mr. Lampert added, "Under the leadership of Mike Jackson and his executive team, and with the continuing guidance of a Board of Directors that focuses on the interests of shareholders, I believe that AutoNation is well positioned for the coming years."
"The AutoNation Board of Directors thanks Eddie Lampert for his many contributions to our company over the last five years," said Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AutoNation. "And I personally look forward to his continued advice and support."
ABOUT AUTONATION, INC.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and a component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index. AutoNation has approximately 26,000 full-time employees and owns and operates 327 new vehicle franchises in 16 states. For additional information, please visit
http://corp.AutoNation.com
or
www.AutoNation.com
, where more than 90,000 vehicles are available for sale.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements, including its earnings outlook.


