FILE:AN/AN-8K-20071024100200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 24, 2007, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release and related quarterly financial data supplement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On October 23, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional $250 million for the repurchase of its common stock. The Company has $11.6 million remaining under the $500 million share repurchase program authorized in April 2007.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 24, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2007 third-quarter net income from continuing operations of $77 million or $0.39 per share, compared to year-ago net income from continuing operations of $85 million or $0.40 per share. Results for the third quarter of 2007 reflected a decline in new vehicle retail sales especially in California and Florida, partially offset by tax adjustments and continued share repurchases.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (October 24, 2007) AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN),
Third-quarter 2007 revenue totaled $4.6 billion, compared to $4.9 billion in the year-ago period, driven primarily by lower new vehicle sales. In the third-quarter, industry new vehicle retail sales for California and Florida were off approximately 11% compared to last year, based on CNW Research data. AutoNation's decline for new vehicle unit sales for California and Florida was 11%. Together, California and Florida represent approximately 50% of the Company's new vehicle business and 20% of the industry retail new vehicles sold in the U.S.
Commenting on the third-quarter, Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "The third quarter was a challenging economic environment for new vehicle sales driven largely by continued weakness in the housing market in our key markets of Florida and California." Mr. Jackson also noted. "We expect to continue to see a challenging new vehicle retail market as long as the housing market difficulties persist. AutoNation continues to have confidence in California and Florida and views them as healthy markets over the long term."
For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2007, the Company reported net income from continuing operations of $238 million or $1.16 per share, compared to $257 million or $1.09 per share in the prior year.
 
AutoNation also announced earlier it has signed an agreement to acquire Don Mackey BMW in Tucson, Arizona. The store will be renamed BMW Tucson after the anticipated completion of the transaction in January 2008. BMW Tucson will become the 22 new vehicle franchise owned by AutoNation in Arizona and AutoNation's 13BMW dealership nationwide. Terms of the all-cash transaction, which is subject to customary conditions and approvals, were not disclosed. AutoNation estimates that revenue generated by the dealership in 2007 will total approximately $45 million.
nd
th
Separately, the Company's Board of Directors has authorized an additional $250 million for the repurchase of its common stock. The Company has $11.6 million remaining under the $500 million share repurchase program authorized in April 2007.
The third quarter conference call may be accessed at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time today by phone at 800-230-1059 or via the Internet (audio webcast) at by clicking on the "About Us" link then clicking on "Investors" and then "Webcasts." A playback of the conference call will be available after 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time October 24, 2007 through October 31, 2007 by calling 800-475-6701 (access code # 885245).
http://www.AutoNation.com
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and has been named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer by FORTUNE Magazine in five of the last six years. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 325 new vehicle franchises in 16 states. For additional information, please visit or , where more than 80,000 vehicles are available for sale along with AutoNation's E-Vehicle program.
http://corp.AutoNation.com
www.AutoNation.com
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements, including its long-term growth targets.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, adjusted in each case to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations.
 
 
 
Capital Expenditures/Stock Repurchases
Floorplan Assistance and Expense
Balance Sheet and Other Highlights
Brand Mix  New Vehicle Revenue %
 
Comparable Basis Reconciliations*
 
Business Assumptions Impacting Long-term Average EPS Growth Target of 10% to 12% Per Year:
 


