FILE:AN/AN-8K-20070104181451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 3, 2007, the Board of Directors of AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") approved the appointment of Michael J. Short as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective as of January 15, 2007. Mr. Short will succeed J. Alexander McAllister as principal financial officer of the Company on such date, as Mr. McAllisters tenure as Interim Chief Financial Officer will end on January 14, 2007. Mr. McAllister, however, will continue to serve as Vice President  Corporate Controller until March 31, 2007 (or an earlier date if a new Corporate Controller is appointed) as previously reported on a current report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 22, 2006. In connection with Mr. Shorts appointment, the Compensation Committee of the Companys Board of Directors approved a compensation arrangement for Mr. Short, the terms of which are set forth in a letter agreement entered into between the Comp any and Mr. Short dated December 27, 2006. Under this letter agreement, Mr. Short will be entitled to receive an annual base salary of $525,000. Mr. Short will participate in the Companys senior executive incentive bonus plan commencing in 2007 with a bonus target of not less than 60% of base salary, with the performance goals and other terms of the bonus to be established at a later date by the Executive Compensation Subcommittee of the Companys Board of Directors. Mr. Short also will receive a grant of options to purchase 200,000 shares of the Companys common stock (the "Common Stock") on January 15, 2007, Mr. Shorts first day of employment. The stock options will have a term of 10 years and become exercisable in four equal installments on each of the first four anniversaries of the grant date. The exercise price of all such options will be the composite closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of 4:00 p.m. on the trading d ay immediately preceding the grant date, as quoted in the Wall Street Journal. Mr. Short, age 45, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. (dba Universal Orlando) ("Universal Orlando") from 2000 until January 12, 2007, when his resignation from Universal Orlando is effective. From 2005 until January 12, 2007, he also has served as Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, the limited partner of Universal Orlando, and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, the general partner of Universal Orlando. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Short held various finance positions at Universal Orlando, Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc. and IBM Corporation. Prior to that, he was a helicopter pilot and tactics instructor for the United States Navy, based out of Norfolk, Virginia. Mr. Short graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1982 and earned an MBA from Columbia University in 1991. A copy of the letter agreement between the Company and Mr. Short setting forth Mr. Shorts terms of employment is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Shorts appointment as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 10.1 Letter Agreement dated December 27, 2006 between AutoNation, Inc. and Michael J. Short. Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated January 4, 2007 issued by AutoNation, Inc.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
December 27, 2006
Mr. Michael J. Short
Dear Mike:
We are pleased to extend to you our offer to join AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Your appointment is subject to approval by the Company's Board of Directors and your compensation package as outlined herein is subject to approval of our Compensation Committee and Executive Compensation Subcommittee. The following sets forth the terms of our offer:
Please confirm your acceptance of this offer by signing in the space provided below and then return one original signed copy to me as soon as possible.
We look forward to having you join our team.
Sincerely,
/s/ Mike Jackson
Mike Jackson Chairman and Chief Executive Officer AutoNation, Inc.
ACCEPTED:
/s/ Michael J. Short
Michael J. Short
Date
December 27, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
America's largest automotive retailer, announced today that it has appointed Michael J. Short as executive vice president and chief financial officer effective January 15, 2007. Short, 45, joins AutoNation from Universal Orlando where he has served as chief financial officer since 2000. Short will report to Mike Jackson, AutoNation's chairman and chief executive officer.
FORT LAUDERDALE, FL (January 4, 2007)  AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN),
"AutoNation is looking forward to having a seasoned finance executive of Mike's caliber join our team," said Jackson. "He brings AutoNation both financial and strategic experience that will enhance our corporate initiatives. Mike's professionalism, insight and expertise are what our customers, associates and shareholders can count on for continued success here at AutoNation."
In addition to his role at Universal Orlando, Short served in finance and corporate development positions at Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc. and IBM Corporation. Before that, he was a helicopter pilot and tactics instructor for the United States Navy, based out of Norfolk, Virginia. He holds an MBA from Columbia University in New York and a bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland.
Short will succeed Alex McAllister, who has served as the interim chief financial officer of AutoNation since September 1, 2006. McAllister also serves as vice president  corporate controller of AutoNation and will continue to serve in this role until March 31, 2007 (or earlier upon the appointment of a new corporate controller), when he is expected to retire from AutoNation.
"We greatly appreciate Alex McAllister's service to AutoNation," said Jackson. "Alex has served the company well in the role of interim chief financial officer. Alex has also been a great asset of the company during his tenure as corporate controller for the last six years, playing a key role in our effort to bring greater transparency and clarity to our financial reporting over this time period."
ABOUT AUTONATION, INC.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and a component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index. AutoNation has approximately 27,000 full-time employees and owns and operates 334 new vehicle franchises in 16 states. For additional information, please visit http://corp.AutoNation.com or www.AutoNation.com, where more than 100,000 vehicles are available for sale.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements, including its earnings outlook.


