FILE:AN/AN-8K-20070208170321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 5, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Kim C. Goodman, Vice President of Software and Peripherals of Dell Inc., to serve as a director of the Company effective immediately. The appointment increases the size of the Companys Board to ten (10) members. The Board determined that Ms. Goodman qualifies as independent under the director independence standard set forth in the AutoNation, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines and under applicable NYSE corporate governance standards. Ms. Goodman was not appointed to any committees of the Board. Ms. Goodman will participate in the Companys outside director compensation program pursuant to which she will receive an annual fee for her service on the Board of $25,000, plus $1,000 for each Board meeting attended in excess of four annually (and, to the extent she is appointed to a Board committee in the future, $1,000 for each committee meeting attended). These Board fees are paid i n cash, and the annual fee is prorated based on the number of months served during the year. Ms. Goodman also will receive an annual vehicle allowance of $22,500 to purchase or lease a vehicle in accordance with the Companys Director Vehicle Allowance Program (prorated based on number of months served during the first year), and expense reimbursement in connection with Board and committee meeting attendance. Additionally, Ms. Goodman will be eligible to receive an initial grant of options to purchase 50,000 shares of common stock of the Company ("Company Stock") and an annual grant to purchase 20,000 shares of Company Stock (the "Annual Grant") on the date of the 2007 Annual Meeting (as defined below), in accordance with the Companys new 2007 Director Stock Option Plan (the "Option Plan"), which is subject to approval by the Companys stockholders at the Companys 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2007 Annual Meeting"). Commencing in 2008, the Annual Grant to outside directors will be made automatically under the Option Plan on the first business day of each year. All options granted under the Option Plan vest immediately upon the date of grant. On February 2, 2007, Irene B. Rosenfeld, who has served as a director of the Company since 1999, informed the Company that she will not stand for re-election to the Board at the 2007 Annual Meeting. Ms. Rosenfeld will continue to serve as a member of the Board and the Board's Compensation Committee and as Chair of the Boards Executive Compensation Subcommittee until the 2007 Annual Meeting. On February 5, 2007, the Board adopted a new AutoNation, Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan (the "2007 Bonus Plan"). The 2007 Bonus Plan, which is administered by the Executive Compensation Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee") of the Compensation Committee of the Board of the Company, is subject to approval by the Companys stockholders at the 2007 Annual Meeting. The 2007 Bonus Plan, which is substantia lly identical to and is intended to replace the AutoNation, Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan approved by the Board and the Companys stockholders in 2002, is designed to create a direct link between pay and performance for the Companys senior executives and to ensure that annual cash performance bonuses payable to executive officers of the Company are tax deductible by the Company pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the 2007 Bonus Plan, the Subcommittee, in its sole discretion, shall determine which of the Companys executive officers or other key employees shall participate in the plan in any particular year. In addition, the Subcommittee is responsible for identifying annual "performance factors" and establishing specific performance targets with respect thereto that must be met in order for annual bonuses to be paid under the 2007 Bonus Plan. The Subcommittee retains absolute "negative discretion" to eliminate or reduce the amount of an y award under the 2007 Bonus Plan and to make all determinations under the 2007 Bonus Plan. On February 5, 2007, the Subcommittee selected participants in the 2007 Bonus Plan for 2007, established specific annual performance goals and set target awards for participants in the 2007 Bonus Plan for 2007 (subject to stockholder approval of the 2007 Bonus Plan). The Subcommittee selected the following senior executive officers to participate in the 2007 Bonus Plan for 2007: the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; President and Chief Operating Officer; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary. The performance goals under the 2007 Bonus Plan for 2007 that were established by the Subcommittee are based upon the achievement of specified levels of operating income per share (minus a charge for capital deployed for acquisitions or share repurchases) and operating income as a percentage of gross profit for the Company duri ng 2007. The Subcommittee also established an objective standard for calculating the amount of the target award for each 2007 Bonus Plan participant. The performance goals established under the 2007 Bonus Plan for 2007 also constitute the performance goals that have been established for the 2007 bonus plan for bonus-eligible corporate employees of the Company to ensure that the corporate management team is fully aligned to achieve improved operating performance for our existing business and to deploy capital effectively and profitably. A copy of a press release issued by the Company announcing Ms. Goodmans appointment and Ms. Rosenfelds decision to not stand for re-election to the Board at the 2007 Annual Meeting is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 99.1 Press Release dated February 5, 2007 issued by AutoNation, Inc.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., February 5, 2007  AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN), America's leading automotive retailer, announced today that its Board of Directors has appointed Kim C. Goodman as an independent director.
"AutoNation is privileged to have someone of Kim's caliber join our team," said Mike Jackson, chairman and chief executive officer of AutoNation. "She offers us a considerable degree of high-level strategic experience, along with the sort of professionalism, insight and expertise that makes our Board effective."
Goodman is vice president of software and peripherals for Austin, Texas-based Dell Inc. In that role, which she has served since 2005, Goodman has responsibility for the multi-billion dollar business, including oversight of operations, marketing, forecasting, pricing and vendor relations. From 2000-2005, she served as the company's vice president of public sector marketing and transactional sales, vice president of Dell networking and vice president of business development.
In addition to her role at Dell, Goodman also served as partner and vice president for Bain & Company. She received her M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, along with two degrees from Stanford University  an M.S. in industrial engineering and a B.A. in political science.
Separately, AutoNation announced today that Irene B. Rosenfeld, chief executive officer of Kraft Foods Inc., has decided not to stand for re-election to the AutoNation Board of Directors at the upcoming annual meeting of stockholders, which is expected to be held in May 2007. Last week, it was announced that upon the spin-off of Kraft Foods Inc. from Altria Group, Inc. on March 30, 2007, Rosenfeld will also become chairman at Kraft Foods Inc. Rosenfeld has served on the AutoNation board since 1999.
"It's an exciting and demanding time everywhere across corporate America today, and my responsibilities at Kraft have grown to the point where they require all of my attention," Rosenfeld said. "I've enjoyed my time with AutoNation immensely, and I'm proud to have been a part of a company that has changed the auto retailing landscape."
During Rosenfeld's tenure, the company has sold more than 5 million vehicles, been named to the S&P 500 Index and was voted the Most Admired Company in its industry for four consecutive years by Fortune magazine.
"Irene is an outstanding member of our Board, and her guidance shaped our company in countless ways," said Jackson. "We recognize her need to dedicate full attention to Kraft and thank her for her years of dedicated service on the Board."
For more information about AutoNation and its board of directors, visit .
http://www.AutoNation.com
ABOUT AUTONATION, INC.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and a component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index. AutoNation has approximately 26,000 full-time employees and owns and operates 331 new vehicle franchises in 16 states. For additional information, please visit
http://corp.AutoNation.com
or
http://www.AutoNation.com,
where more than 90,000 vehicles are available for sale.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward- looking statements, including its earnings outlook.


