FILE:AN/AN-8K-20081106090539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 6, 2008, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 6, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported a 2008 third quarter net loss from continuing operations of $1.40 billion or $7.95 per share. In the quarter, the Company recorded non-cash charges for goodwill and franchise impairments of $1.46 billion after-tax. After adjusting for the impairment charges and certain other items disclosed in the attached financial tables, net income from continuing operations for the 2008 third quarter was $44 million or $0.25 per share, compared to $73 million or $0.37 per share in the prior year.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (November 6, 2008) AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN),
Third quarter 2008 revenue totaled $3.5 billion, compared to $4.5 billion in the year-ago period, driven primarily by lower new vehicle sales. In the third quarter, total U.S. industry new vehicle retail sales declined 31%, based on CNW Research data. In comparison, in the third quarter AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales declined 24%.
Commenting on the third quarter, Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "The third quarter was negatively impacted by the credit crisis that escalated in September into a full blown credit panic. This created a credit freeze that broke consumer confidence and, along with a continued housing depression, accelerated the decline in the U.S. economy and auto retail market. As a result of the adverse market conditions and a decline in our stock price, we were required under accounting rules to record non-cash goodwill and franchise impairment charges in the third quarter. Notwithstanding the impairment charges, the Company remains in compliance with all of the financial covenants in its credit facilities and the indenture for its senior notes. Furthermore, despite these headwinds, AutoNation continues to generate solid cash flow as demonstrated by the $104 million reduction in non-vehicle debt during the quarter, and excluding the non-cash charges, AutoNation was solidly profitable in the third quarter. Year to date, debt reduction totals $589 million, $362 million of non-vehicle debt and $227 million of vehicle floor plan debt."
 
Looking forward, Jackson also stated, "We expect the rest of 2008 will continue to be challenging and foresee U.S. industry new vehicle sales for 2008 in the low 13-million unit level, an 18-year low. While at this time it is hard to predict new vehicle sales for 2009, the most conservative industry forecast is in the range of 12 million new vehicle units. Even at a 12 million new vehicle level, we are confident that AutoNation will remain profitable and in compliance with debt covenants."
During the third quarter of 2008, in response to changes in the automotive retail market, including the disproportionate decline in revenue and earnings from the Company's domestic franchises relative to its import and premium luxury franchises, AutoNation made changes to its management approach that divided its business into three operating segments.
AutoNation has added supplemental reporting which provides additional detail on the three operating segments: Domestic, Import, and Premium Luxury. The Domestic segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured by General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler, the Import segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Toyota, Honda, and Nissan, and the Premium Luxury segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Mercedes, BMW, and Lexus.
Segment Results for the Quarter
 
For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2008, the Company reported net loss from continuing operations of $1.30 billion or $7.27 per share, compared to net income from continuing operations of $238 million or $1.16 per share in the prior year. After adjusting for the impairment charges and certain other items as disclosed in the attached financial tables, net income from continuing operations for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2008 was $159 million or $0.89 per share, compared to $226 million or $1.10 per share in the prior year. The Company's revenue for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2008 totaled $11.4 billion, down 14% compared to $13.2 billion in the prior year.
The third quarter conference call may be accessed at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time today by phone at 888-769-8515 or via the Internet (audio webcast) at by clicking on the "About Us" link then clicking on "Investors" and then "Webcasts." A playback of the conference call will be available after 12:00 (noon) p.m. Eastern Time November 6, 2008 through November 13, 2008 by calling 888-567-0381.
http://www.AutoNation.com
About AutoNation, Inc.
     
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and has been named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer by FORTUNE Magazine in five of the last seven years. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 311 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit
http://corp.AutoNation.com
or
www.AutoNation.com
, where more than 80,000 vehicles are available for sale along with AutoNation's E-Vehicle program.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
     
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
     
The attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, adjusted in each case to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


