FILE:AN/AN-8K-20080724090942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On July 24, 2008, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 24, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2008 second quarter net income from continuing operations of $53 million or $0.29 per share, compared to year-ago net income from continuing operations of $79 million or $0.38 per share. After adjusting for certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables, net income from continuing operations for the 2008 second quarter was $59 million or $0.33 per share, compared to $76 million or $0.36 per share in the prior year.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (July 24, 2008) AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN),
Second quarter 2008 revenue totaled $3.9 billion, compared to $4.5 billion in the year-ago period, driven primarily by lower new vehicle sales. In the second quarter, total U.S. industry retail sales declined 16%, based on CNW Research data. In comparison, in the second quarter AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales declined 12%.
Commenting on the second quarter, Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Despite the fact that this past quarter was the most challenging automotive sales environment any of us have encountered, AutoNation delivered solid profitability." Mr. Jackson also noted, "In the second quarter, the industry encountered $4.00 per gallon gasoline on top of the continued housing depression and credit crisis, resulting in a significant challenge as consumers are either postponing the purchase of vehicles or they are purchasing smaller vehicles that are more economical both at the time of purchase and at the pump. We now believe that, in 2008, U.S. new vehicle industry sales will decline to the low-14 million unit level."
Mr. Jackson added, "In continuing response to the ongoing macroeconomic and industry challenges, we are executing a cost reduction plan with a targeted annualized run rate pre-tax savings of $100 million. In the first half of the year, we achieved approximately $25 million of this benefit. In the second half of the year, we expect to achieve approximately $50 million of savings, for a full-year 2008 impact of $75 million on a pre-tax basis. Our targeted annualized cost savings include reductions in advertising spending, corporate overhead expense and store personnel expense."
 
For the six-month period ended June 30, 2008, the Company reported net income from continuing operations of $109 million or $0.60 per share compared to $162 million or $0.77 per share in the prior year. After adjusting for certain items as disclosed in the attached financial tables, net income from continuing operations for the six-month period ended June 30, 2008 was $115 million or $0.64 per share, compared to $153 million or $0.73 per share. The Company's revenue for the six-month period ended June 30, 2008 totaled $7.9 billion, down 10% compared to $8.8 billion in the prior year.
The second quarter conference call may be accessed at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time today by phone at 888-769-8515 or via the Internet (audio webcast) at by clicking on the "About Us" link then clicking on "Investors" and then "Webcasts." A playback of the conference call will be available after 12:00 (noon) p.m. Eastern Time August 1, 2008 through August 7, 2008 by calling 888-562-6304.
http://www.AutoNation.com
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and has been named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer by FORTUNE Magazine in five of the last seven years. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 319 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit or , where more than 80,000 vehicles are available for sale along with AutoNation's E-Vehicle program.
http://corp.AutoNation.com
www.AutoNation.com
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements, including its long-term growth targets.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, adjusted in each case to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations.
 
 
 
 
* Please refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of the Press Release.
 


