FILE:AN/AN-8K-20080730170252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On July 30, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") appointed David B. Edelson, Senior Vice President of Loews Corporation ("Loews"), as a member of the Board effective immediately. The appointment increases the size of the Board to eight members. The Board determined that Mr. Edelson qualifies as independent under the independence standards set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines and the applicable New York Stock Exchange listing standards.
     Mr. Edelson will participate in the Company's non-employee director compensation program pursuant to which he will receive an annual fee of $25,000 for his service on the Board, plus $1,000 for each Board meeting attended in excess of four annually (and, to the extent he is appointed to a Board committee in the future, $1,000 for each committee meeting attended). These Board fees will be paid in cash, and the annual fee will be prorated based on the number of months served during the year. Mr. Edelson will also be eligible to receive an annual vehicle allowance of $22,500 to purchase or lease a vehicle in accordance with the Company's Director Vehicle Allowance Program (prorated based on number of months served during the year) and expense reimbursement in connection with Board and committee meeting attendance.
     In accordance with the terms of the Company's 2007 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"), on July 30, 2008, Mr. Edelson was automatically granted an option to purchase 50,000 shares of Company common stock at an exercise price of $10.43 per share, the closing price of a share of Company common stock on July 29, 2008. As a non-employee director, Mr. Edelson will also be eligible to receive an automatic annual grant of an option to purchase 20,000 shares of Company common stock on the first business day of each calendar year while the Plan is in effect. All options granted under the Plan vest immediately upon the date of grant and have an exercise price equal to the closing price of a share of Company common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant.
     A copy of a press release issued by the Company announcing Mr. Edelson's appointment is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     (d) Exhibits
     Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated July 30, 2008 issued by AutoNation, Inc.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 30, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
     FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., July 30, 2008  AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN), America's leading automotive retailer, announced today that its Board of Directors appointed David B. Edelson as an independent director effective July 30, 2008. Mr. Edelson's appointment expands the AutoNation Board to eight members.
     "AutoNation is privileged to have someone of David's caliber join our team," said Mike Jackson, chairman and chief executive officer of AutoNation. "David offers us a considerable degree of high-level strategic experience, as well as financial expertise and insight that will bring a valuable perspective on today's market challenges."
     Mr. Edelson is Senior Vice President of Loews Corporation (NYSE: L), a diversified holding company with subsidiaries in the property-casualty insurance, offshore drilling, natural gas transmission and storage, natural gas exploration and production, and lodging industries. Mr. Edelson's responsibilities include helping formulate and execute Loews's corporate strategies and monitor the performance of Loews's subsidiaries, as well as overseeing investor relations. Mr. Edelson joined Loews in May 2005.
     Prior to joining Loews, Mr. Edelson was Executive Vice President & Corporate Treasurer of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Mr. Edelson was named Corporate Treasurer in April 2001 and promoted to Executive Vice President in February 2003. Mr. Edelson spent the first 15 years of his career as an investment banker, first with Goldman Sachs & Co. and subsequently with JPMorgan Chase & Co.
     Mr. Edelson earned an M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business in 1985 and an A.B. in English from Dartmouth College in 1981. He has served as a director of CNA Surety Corporation since February 2007.
     For more information about AutoNation and its Board of Directors, visit http://www.autonation.com.
ABOUT AUTONATION, INC.
     
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and has been named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer by FORTUNE Magazine in five of the last seven years. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 317 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit http://corp.autonation.com or www.autonation.com, where more than 80,000 vehicles are available for sale along with AutoNation's E-Vehicle program.


