FILE:AN/AN-8K-20080424093312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 24, 2008, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1  Press Release dated April 24, 2008 issued by AutoNation, Inc.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 24, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
      
     America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2008 first quarter net income from continuing operations of $56 million or $0.31 per share, compared to year-ago net income from continuing operations of $83 million or $0.39 per share. Results for the first quarter of 2008 reflected a decline in vehicle retail sales, especially in AutoNation's key markets in California, Florida, Nevada and Arizona where the housing crisis has significantly impacted the automotive retail business. First quarter 2008 results also were impacted by lower gross profit per new and used vehicle sold, partially offset by continued share repurchases. Prior year results benefited from favorable tax adjustments of $0.02 per share.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (April 24, 2008) AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN),
     First quarter 2008 revenue totaled $4.0 billion, compared to $4.3 billion in the year-ago period, driven primarily by lower vehicle sales. In the first quarter, industry new vehicle U.S. retail sales declined approximately 11%, according to CNW Research. AutoNation new vehicle unit sales declined 8%. Industry new vehicle retail sales for California, Florida, Nevada and Arizona were off approximately 15% compared to last year, based on CNW Research data. AutoNation's decline for new vehicle unit sales in those markets was 11%. Together, California, Florida, Nevada and Arizona represent approximately 60% of the Company's new vehicle business and approximately 25% of the industry retail new vehicles sold in the U.S.
     Commenting on the first quarter, Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "In the first quarter we continued to experience a challenging economic environment for new vehicle sales, particularly in our key markets of California, Florida, Nevada and Arizona where the housing crisis has clearly impacted overall economic activity and consumer demand for new vehicles." Mr. Jackson also noted, "We expect to continue to see a challenging automotive retail market as long as the current economic difficulties persist. However, AutoNation continues to have confidence in the long-term health of California, Florida, Nevada and Arizona."
 
     The first quarter conference call may be accessed at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time today by phone at 888-769-8515 or via the Internet (audio webcast) at by clicking on the "About Us" link then clicking on "Investors" and then "Webcasts." A playback of the conference call will be available after 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time April 24, 2008 through May 1, 2008 by calling 800-463-4964.
http://www.AutoNation.com
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer. AutoNation owns and operates 321 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit or , where more than 80,000 vehicles are available for sale along with AutoNation's E-Vehicle program.
http://corp.AutoNation.com
www.AutoNation.com
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements, including its long-term growth targets.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, adjusted to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations.
 
 
 
 
 


