FILE:AN/AN-8K-20090731081707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
On July 31, 2009, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
        
Contact:
Marc Cannon
(954) 769-3146
cannonm@autonation.com
        
Investor Contact:
Derek Fiebig
(954) 769-7342
fiebigd@autonation.com
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2009 second quarter net income from continuing operations of $55 million or $0.31 per share, compared to year-ago net income from continuing operations of $56 million or $0.31 per share. After adjusting for certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables, net income from continuing operations for the 2009 second quarter was $51 million or $0.29 per share, compared to $59 million or $0.33 per share in the prior year.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (July 31, 2009) AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN),
Second quarter 2009 revenue totaled $2.6 billion, compared to $3.7 billion in the year-ago period. The decrease was driven primarily by lower new vehicle sales. In the second quarter, total U.S. industry retail new vehicle sales declined 40% compared to last year, based on CNW Research data. In comparison, in the second quarter AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales declined 38%.
Commenting on the second quarter, Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Despite extraordinarily difficult industry conditions, AutoNation delivered solid profitability, driven by cost reduction, lower interest expense, and our disciplined operating model and inventory management. The second quarter was a pivotal moment for the automotive industry. Long-awaited volume stabilization, the successful government-led restructuring of General Motors and Chrysler, and significant dealer consolidations were accomplished. The industry is now positioned for a healthy rebound when macroeconomic conditions, particularly consumer credit, improve." Mr. Jackson also noted, "Our continued disciplined inventories led to a year-over-year improvement in gross profit per vehicle retailed and lower floor plan expense."
 
Mike Jackson added, "The stabilization of the SAAR in the second quarter is the first step to a gradual recovery and marks the first time since the end of 2007 that we did not see a significant sequential decline in industry new vehicle sales. We also expect the Cash for Clunkers' program to stimulate new vehicle sales. Going forward, we expect a gradual improvement of new vehicle sales beginning in the second half of 2009 and intend to increase our inventory of vehicles in a disciplined manner to meet demand. Having weathered the storm, AutoNation remains in an excellent position to capitalize on dealer consolidation and the gradual recovery in industry volumes. We will continue to benefit from our $200 million structural cost reduction program."
At the end of the second quarter, AutoNation had nearly $450 million in liquidity, including cash of $129 million and remained well within the limits of the financial covenants in our debt agreements.
AutoNation has three operating segments: Domestic, Import, and Premium Luxury. The Domestic segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured by General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler; the Import segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Toyota, Honda, and Nissan; and the Premium Luxury segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Mercedes, BMW, and Lexus.
 
For the six-month period ended June 30, 2009, the Company reported net income from continuing operations of $108 million or $0.61 per share compared to $111 million or $0.62 per share in the prior year. After adjusting for certain items as disclosed in the attached financial tables, net income from continuing operations for the six-month period ended June 30, 2009 was $91 million or $0.51 per share, compared to $114 million or $0.63 per share. The Company's revenue for the six-month period ended June 30, 2009 totaled $5.0 billion, down 32% compared to $7.4 billion in the prior year.
The second quarter conference call may be accessed at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on July 31, 2009 by phone at 888-769-8515 (pass code: AutoNation) or via the Internet (audio webcast) at by clicking on the "Investors Relations" link then clicking "Webcasts." A playback of the conference call will be available after 12:00 (noon) p.m. Eastern Time July 31, 2009 through August 7, 2009 by calling 866-395-4250 (pass code: 75300).
http://www.AutoNation.com
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and has been named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer by FORTUNE Magazine in five of the last seven years. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 264 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit
http://corp.AutoNation.com
or
www.AutoNation.com
, where more than 70,000 vehicles are available for sale along with AutoNation's E-Vehicle program.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, estimates and expectations is contained in the Company's SEC filings. The Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, adjusted in each case to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations
.
 
 
Operating Highlights
Operating Percentages
 
Segment Operating Highlights
 
Brand Mix  New Vehicle Retail Units Sold
 
Capital Expenditures / Stock and Debt Repurchases
Floorplan Assistance and Expense
Balance Sheet and Other Highlights
 
Comparable Basis Reconciliations*
 
 
Operating Highlights
Operating Percentages
 
($ millions)


