FILE:AN/AN-8K-20091029075022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 29, 2009, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported net income from continuing operations of $65 million or $0.36 per share for the third quarter of 2009, compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $1.40 billion or $7.90 per share for the same period in 2008. In the third quarter of 2008, the Company recorded non-cash charges for goodwill and franchise impairments of $1.46 billion after-tax. Net income from continuing operations for the 2009 third quarter improved 44% on a per-share basis, as compared to adjusted net income from continuing operations of $44 million or $0.25 per share for last year's third quarter, which excludes the impairment charges and certain other items disclosed in the attached financial tables.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., (October 29, 2009) AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN),
Commenting on the third quarter, Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer said, "AutoNation delivered solid profitability driven by margin recovery, cost reduction, lower interest expenses, a disciplined operating model and inventory management. Our third quarter profitability improved from third quarter 2008 despite substantially lower new vehicle industry volume compared to last year. Cash for Clunkers was a highly effective stimulus program that provided a much needed lift in auto sales and has set the stage going forward for a gradual recovery of new vehicle sales. The program aided our third quarter results by an estimated 7 cents per share."
 
Jackson also stated, "We expect that the automotive retail market will remain challenging throughout the remainder of 2009 with a gradual recovery beginning in 2010. We are optimistic for the long term prospects of the auto industry based on the successful restructuring of the domestic auto industry, the move to a demand pull system, and the rationalization of the dealer network. As the U.S. economy, consumer confidence and credit markets improve, we expect to be well-positioned to capitalize on these trends."
The Company's third quarter 2009 revenue totaled $2.9 billion, compared to $3.4 billion in the year-ago period, driven primarily by lower vehicle sales, in an environment where industry new vehicle sales remain at depression levels. AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales decline was in line with the industry's new vehicle retail sales decline, based on CNW Research Data.
AutoNation has three operating segments: Domestic, Import and Premium Luxury. The Domestic segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured by General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler; the Import segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Toyota, Honda, and Nissan; and the Premium Luxury segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Mercedes, BMW, and Lexus.
Segment Results for the Quarter
 
 
 
Notably in the quarter, Domestic and Import segments were the biggest beneficiary of the Cash for Clunkers program, which was concentrated in smaller fuel efficient vehicles retailing for less than $45,000.
 
 
Additionally, the Company's Board of Directors has approved a 65% increase in capital expenditures to $150 million for 2010 and has authorized an additional $250 million for the repurchase of its common stock. The Company repurchased 3.7 million shares of common stock in the third quarter for an aggregate purchase price of $65.8 million (average purchase price per share of $17.81). AutoNation also recently announced the acquisition of Honda and Acura dealerships in its AppleWay market in Spokane, Washington, which the Company expects to complete before the end of the year. Commenting on the Board authorization, AutoNation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson said, "Investing in our facilities, investing in our stores through process and technology, repurchasing shares, and making strategic acquisitions reflects the Board's and senior management's continued confidence in AutoNation's financial strength and focus on generating additional value for shareholders."
For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2009, the Company reported net income from continuing operations of $172 million or $0.96 per share, compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $1.29 billion or $7.22 per share in the prior year. After adjusting for the impairment charges and certain items as disclosed in the attached financial tables, net income from continuing operations for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2009, was $155 million or $0.87 per share, compared to $158 million or $0.88 per share last year. The Company's revenue for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2009 totaled $7.9 billion, down 26% compared to $10.8 billion in the prior year.
The third quarter conference call may be accessed at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time today by phone at 888-769-8515 (pass code: AutoNation), or via the Internet (audio webcast) at by clicking on "About AutoNation" and then "Webcasts & Presentations." A playback of the conference call will be available after 12:00 (noon) p.m. Eastern Time October 29, 2009 through November 07, 2009 by calling 866-487-7599, pass code: 75300.
http://www.AutoNation.com
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 245 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit , where more than 70,000 vehicles are available for sale.
www.AutoNation.com
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals, are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements under the securities laws. These forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: economic conditions generally; conditions in the credit markets and changes in interest rates; assumptions and expectations relating to financial covenants contained in our debt agreements; the success and financial viability of vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold franchises; factors affecting our goodwill impairment testing; natural disasters and other adverse weather events; restrictions imposed by vehicle manufacturers; the resolution of legal and administrative proceedings; regulatory factors affecting our business; and other factors described in our news releases and filings made under the securities laws, including, among others, those set forth under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, adjusted in each case to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, we have provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. We believe that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations
.
 
 
 
 
    NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
($ millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 


