FILE:AN/AN-8K-20091123174420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously announced on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 29, 2009 (the "January 2009 8-K") by AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company"), the Board of Directors of the Company approved a letter agreement with Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. ("Toyota," and such agreement, the "Toyota Agreement") in order to, among other things, eliminate any potential adverse consequences under Toyota's framework agreement with the Company in the event that ESL Investments, Inc. and certain investment affiliates of ESL Investments, Inc. (together, "ESL") acquires more than fifty percent (50%) of the Company's common stock. Pursuant to the Toyota Agreement, Toyota's consent (the "Consent") to ESL acquiring more than fifty percent (50%) of the Company's common stock terminates on December 31, 2009, solely with respect to ESL purchases of the Company's common stock after such date unless extended by Toyota at ESL's request. The Toyota Agreement also contains governance-related and other provisions as described in the January 2009 8-K.
At ESL's request, Toyota has granted a one-year extension of its Consent under the Toyota Agreement (such extension, the "Extension Agreement"), and the Company signed an acknowledgement to the Extension Agreement, which is dated November 23, 2009. Toyota's Consent under the Toyota Agreement will now terminate on December 31, 2010, with respect to purchases of the Company's common stock by ESL after such date, provided that ESL may continue to seek successive annual one-year extensions of Toyota's Consent, and Toyota shall not unreasonably withhold or delay its consent thereto. All other terms and conditions of the Toyota Agreement were unchanged. ESL currently owns approximately forty-six percent (46%) of the Company's common stock.
As discussed in the January 2009 8-K, the Company and ESL are also parties to: (i) a letter agreement with American Honda Motor Co., Inc. ("Honda," and such agreement the "Honda Agreement"), in which, among other things, Honda has agreed not to assert its right to purchase the Company's Honda and Acura franchises and/or similar remedies under Honda's framework agreement with the Company in the event that ESL acquires fifty percent (50%) or more of the Company's common stock; and (ii) an agreement (the "ESL Agreement") in which ESL has agreed to vote shares of the Company's common stock owned by ESL in excess of forty-five percent (45%) in the same proportion as all non-ESL-owned shares are voted. The Honda Agreement also contains governance-related and other provisions as described in the January 2009 8-K. The ESL Agreement expires on January 28, 2010, unless extended by mutual agreement by all parties.
The foregoing summaries of the Toyota Agreement, the Extension Agreement, the Honda Agreement and the ESL Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to such agreements. The Toyota Agreement, the Honda Agreement and the ESL Agreement were filed as exhibits to the January 2009 8-K and are incorporated by reference herein. The Extension Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K and is also incorporated by reference herein.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 23, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.2
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
James Lentz, President
19001 South Western Avenue
Torrance, California 90509
 
Dear Mr. Lentz:
Reference is made to that certain letter agreement (the ""), dated as of January 28, 2009, by and among Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (""), AutoNation, Inc. ("") and ESL Investments, Inc. and its investment affiliates set forth on Exhibit A to the Consent Agreement. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this letter agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Consent Agreement.
Consent Agreement
Toyota
AutoNation
Each of the parties hereto hereby: (i) agrees that the "Termination Date" of the Consent Agreement as set forth in paragraph 7 thereto, which previously read "December 31, 2009", shall be amended to read "December 31, 2010" and (ii) reaffirms the terms of the Consent Agreement, as amended by this letter agreement, and agrees that the Consent Agreement, as so amended, shall remain in full force and effect until terminated in accordance with its terms.
This letter agreement (a) may not be amended, waived or modified except by an instrument in writing signed by Toyota, AutoNation and ESL Investments, Inc. and (b) may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but which when taken together shall constitute one and the same letter agreement.
Please acknowledge your agreement to the foregoing by signing and returning to the undersigned as soon as possible a counterpart of this letter.
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
Page 2
 
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
Page 3
 
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
Page 4
 


