FILE:AN/AN-8K-20100422072505.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 22, 2010, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor contact: Derek Fiebig
(954) 769-7342
fiebigd@autonation.com
Investor contact: Cheryl Scully
(954) 769-7734
scullyc@autonation.com
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., April 22, 2010 
 
 
 
 
(NYSE: AN), America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2010 first quarter net income from continuing operations of $58 million or $0.34 per share, compared to net income from continuing operations of $53 million or $0.30 per share for the same period in the prior year. Net income from continuing operations for the 2010 first quarter improved 55% on a per-share basis, compared to adjusted net income from continuing operations of $40 million or $0.22 per share for the same period in the prior year. Adjusted net income from continuing operations for the 2009 first quarter excludes the items disclosed in the attached financial tables.
AutoNation, Inc.
2010 first quarter revenue totaled $2.8 billion, compared to $2.4 billion in the year-ago period, an increase of 19%, driven primarily by stronger new and used retail vehicle revenue which increased 24%. Based on CNW Research data, in the first quarter, total U.S. industry new retail vehicle unit sales increased 15%. AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 19%.
AutoNation's 2010 first quarter used retail vehicle revenue increased 23%, as unit sales increased 12% and revenue per vehicle increased 11%. Parts and service revenue increased 1% and finance and insurance revenue increased 25% compared to the first quarter 2009.
Commenting on the first quarter, Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We delivered strong double-digit growth in the first quarter, which was driven by both new and used vehicle unit sales and revenue. We have seen growth in all regions for two quarters led by our largest state Florida, which was one of the first states to experience the effects of the economic downturn. First quarter revenue for Florida was up 29%. We see an improved sales environment going forward." Mr. Jackson also stated, "By lowering our structural costs, and efficiently managing our inventory, we were able to deliver substantial EPS growth in a steadily improving retail sales environment."
Commenting on the debt refinancing transactions previously announced by AutoNation, Michael Short, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, stated, "These transactions extended our debt maturities, increased our available liquidity, and lowered our exposure to interest rate increases in the future. We believe that these transactions will provide us with additional flexibility to manage our business and optimize capital allocation going forward."
AutoNation has three operating segments: Domestic, Import, and Premium Luxury. The Domestic segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured by General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler; the Import segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Toyota, Honda, and Nissan; and the Premium Luxury segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Mercedes, BMW, and Lexus. Segment results for the first quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
(1) Segment income is defined as operating income less floorplan interest expense.
The first quarter conference call may be accessed by telephone at 888-769-8515 (password: AutoNation). The webcast will be available on AutoNation's investor relations website at corp.autonation.com/investors under "Webcasts & Presentations." A playback of the conference call will be available after 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time on April 22, 2010 through May 1, 2010 by calling 800-294-7481 (password: 75300).
.
About AutoNation, Inc
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and has been named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer by FORTUNE Magazine five times. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 249 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit http://corp.AutoNation.com or www.AutoNation.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "goals," "plans," "believes," "continues," "may," "will," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: economic conditions generally; conditions in the credit markets and changes in interest rates; the success and financial viability of vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold franchises; factors affecting our goodwill and other intangible asset impairment testing; natural disasters and other adverse weather events; restrictions imposed by vehicle manufacturers; the resolution of legal and administrative proceedings; regulatory factors affecting our business; and other factors described in our news releases and filings made under the securities laws, including, among others, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. Forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and the attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as adjusted net income and earnings per share from continuing operations, which exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
($ millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth our non-vehicle long-term debt as of March 31, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


