FILE:AN/AN-8K-20100224171034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 24, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") increased the size of the Board to ten members and appointed Michael Larson and Robert J. Brown as members of the Board effective immediately. The Board determined that each of Mr. Larson and Mr. Brown qualify as independent under the director independence standards set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines and the applicable listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange.
Messrs. Larson and Brown will participate in the Company's non-employee director compensation program, pursuant to which they will each receive an annual fee of $25,000 for service on the Board, plus $1,000 for each Board meeting attended in excess of four annually (and, to the extent they are appointed to a Board committee in the future, $1,000 for each committee meeting attended). These Board fees will be paid in cash, and the annual fee will be prorated based on the number of months served during the year. Each of Mr. Larson and Mr. Brown will also be eligible to receive an annual vehicle allowance of $22,500 to purchase or lease a vehicle in accordance with the Company's Director Vehicle Allowance Program (prorated based on number of months served during the year) and expense reimbursement in connection with Board and committee meeting attendance.
In accordance with the terms of the Company's 2007 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"), on February 24, 2010, each of Mr. Larson and Mr. Brown was automatically granted an option to purchase 50,000 shares of Company common stock at an exercise price of $18.02 per share, the closing price of a share of Company common stock on February 23, 2010. As non-employee directors, Messrs. Larson and Brown will also be eligible to receive an automatic annual grant of an option to purchase 20,000 shares of Company common stock on the first business day of each calendar year while the Plan is in effect. All options granted under the Plan vest immediately upon the date of grant and have an exercise price equal to the closing price of a share of Company common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing the appointments of Messrs. Larson and Brown as members of the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1    Press Release dated February 24, 2010 issued by AutoNation, Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Feb. 24, 2010, (NYSE: AN), America's largest automotive retailer, today announced that its Board of Directors appointed Michael Larson and Robert J. Brown as independent directors effective February 24, 2010. These appointments expand the Board to ten members.
AutoNation, Inc.
"We are very pleased to have Michael Larson join the AutoNation Board," said Mike Jackson, AutoNation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Michael brings a wealth of investment and business experience that complements the expertise of our other Board members."
"We are also very pleased that Bob Brown will be rejoining our Board," said Mr. Jackson. "We look forward to the valuable experience and insights that Bob brings to the Board."
Mr. Larson is the Business Manager of Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and Chief Investment Officer for William H. Gates III, a co-founder of Microsoft Corporation. Cascade Investment, L.L.C. (which is wholly owned by Mr. Gates and holds his investments) and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust own in the aggregate approximately 13% of the outstanding shares of AutoNation's common stock.
Mr. Brown serves as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of B&C Associates, Inc., a management consulting, marketing research, and public relations firm. Mr. Brown previously served as a director of AutoNation from May 1997 until May 2008.
For more information about AutoNation and its Board of Directors, visit www.autonation.com.
ABOUT AUTONATION, INC.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 250 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit www.autonation.com or corp.autonation.com.


