FILE:AN/AN-8K-20101004074532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 4, 2010, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding retail new vehicle unit sales in September 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this report:
99.1    Press Release of AutoNation, Inc. dated October 4, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor contact: Cheryl Scully
(954) 769-7734
scullyc@autonation.com
 
 
 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., October 4, 2010 AutoNation, Inc. (), America's largest automotive retailer, today announced that its retail new vehicle unit sales in September 2010, as reported to the applicable automotive manufacturers, totaled 18,040, an increase of 35% as compared to September 2009. Retail new vehicle unit sales in September 2010 for AutoNation's operating segments were as follows:
NYSE: AN
 
 
 
For the third quarter, AutoNation's retail new vehicle unit sales, as reported to the applicable automotive manufacturers, totaled 56,340, a 3% increase as compared to the same period last year which included the highly successful Cash for Clunkers program.
The information provided in this news release is based on sales reports provided by our stores, including stores acquired since September 2009, to the applicable automotive manufacturers and provided on a continuing operations basis. These reports are prepared based on the standards established by the applicable automotive manufacturers, which differ from GAAP revenue recognition and other requirements and are based on the time periods set by the automotive manufacturers for reporting monthly sales (which generally differ from the calendar month). As a result, our operating results calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, including our new vehicle unit sales, may differ materially from any results expressed or implied by the information provided in our monthly sales reports and summarized in this news release and future news releases. In addition, new vehicle unit sales are subject to seasonal trends. Consequently, new vehicle unit sales for a particular month are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a full quarter or year. Please refer to our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including without limitation our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, for additional information regarding our operations. Investors should not assume that our disclosure of the information in this news release means that we have determined that such information is material to the Company.
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 251 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit corp.AutoNation.com or www.AutoNation.com.


