FILE:AN/AN-8K-20101028072334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2010, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this report:
99.1    Press Release of AutoNation, Inc. dated October 28, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Marc Cannon
(954) 769-3146
cannonm@autonation.com
Investor contact: Cheryl Scully
(954) 769-7734
scullyc@autonation.com
Kate Keyser
(954) 769-7342
keyserk1@autonation.com
 
 
 
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2010 third quarter net income from continuing operations of $59 million, or $0.39 per share, compared to net income from continuing operations of $64 million, or $0.36 per share, for the same period in the prior year, an 8% improvement on a per-share basis.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., (October 28, 2010) AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN),
AutoNation's 2010 third quarter revenue totaled $3.3 billion, compared to $2.9 billion in the year-ago period, an increase of 13%, driven primarily by stronger new and used retail vehicle revenue which increased 15%. Based on CNW Research data, in the third quarter, total U.S. industry new retail vehicle unit sales decreased 4%. AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales, on a same store basis, increased 1%.
AutoNation's 2010 third quarter used retail vehicle revenue increased 31% compared to the year-ago period, as retail unit sales increased 25%. Parts and service revenue increased 6% and finance and insurance revenue increased 18% compared to the third quarter 2009.
Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We delivered strong performance in the third quarter, which was driven by both new and used vehicle unit sales and revenue. We continue to expect full year industry new vehicle unit sales to be in the range of 11.5 million new units."
 
AutoNation has three operating segments: Domestic, Import, and Premium Luxury. The Domestic segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured by General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler; the Import segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Toyota, Honda, and Nissan; and the Premium Luxury segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Mercedes, BMW, and Lexus. Segment results for the third quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
(1) Segment income is defined as operating income less floorplan interest expense.
AutoNation also announced that it was awarded seven Fiat franchises and will be the biggest Fiat dealer in the U.S., with locations in California, Colorado, Arizona, Washington State, Virginia and Georgia.
For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2010, the Company reported adjusted net income from continuing operations of $179 million or $1.11 per share compared to $154 million or $0.87 per share for the same period in the prior year. Adjusted net income from continuing operations excludes debt refinancing costs of $12 million after-tax, or $0.07 per share, for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2010, and a net benefit of $17 million after-tax, or $0.10 per share, primarily related to a net gain on asset sales and a gain on senior note repurchases, for the prior year period. On a GAAP basis, net income from continuing operations for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2010 was $167 million or $1.04 per share compared to $171 million or $0.96 per share for the prior year period. The Company's revenue for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2010 totaled $9.2 billion, up 17% compared to $7.9 billion in the prior year.
The third quarter conference call may be accessed by telephone at 888-769-8515 (password: AutoNation). The webcast will be available on AutoNation's investor relations website at under "Webcasts & Presentations." A playback of the conference call will be available after 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time on October 28, 2010 through November 5, 2010 by calling 866-408-8465 (password 75300.)
corp.autonation.com/investors
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 251 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit or .
corp.AutoNation.com
www.AutoNation.com
 
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "goals," "plans," "believes," "continues," "may," "will," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Statements regarding our expectations for the automotive retail industry, including total industry new vehicle unit sales for 2010, as well as other statements that describe our objectives, goals or plans, are forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: economic conditions generally; conditions in the credit markets and changes in interest rates; the success and financial viability of vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold franchises; factors affecting our goodwill and other intangible asset impairment testing; natural disasters and other adverse weather events; restrictions imposed by vehicle manufacturers; the resolution of legal and administrative proceedings; regulatory factors affecting our business; and other factors described in our news releases and filings made under the securities laws, including, among others, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. Forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
This press release and the attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as adjusted net income and earnings per share from continuing operations, which exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Credit Agreement Covenant Compliance Calculations
 
 
 
Comparable Basis Reconciliations*
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


