FILE:AN/AN-8K-20101217170448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 29, 2009 (the "January 2009 8-K") by AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company"), the Board of Directors of the Company approved a letter agreement with Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. ("Toyota," and such agreement, as amended to date, the "Toyota Agreement") in order to, among other things, eliminate any potential adverse consequences under Toyota's framework agreement with the Company in the event that ESL Investments, Inc. and certain investment affiliates of ESL Investments, Inc. (together, "ESL") acquires more than fifty percent (50%) of the Company's common stock. The Toyota Agreement includes certain governance-related and other provisions as described in the January 2009 8-K. ESL currently owns approximately 55% of the Company's outstanding common stock.
Under the Toyota Agreement (as previously extended), Toyota's consent (the "Consent") to ESL acquiring more than fifty percent (50%) of the Company's common stock would have terminated on December 31, 2010, solely with respect to ESL purchases of the Company's common stock after such date.
At ESL's request, Toyota has granted a one-year extension of its Consent under the Toyota Agreement (such extension, the "Second Extension Agreement"), and the Company signed an acknowledgement to the Second Extension Agreement, which is dated December 16, 2010. Toyota's Consent under the Toyota Agreement will now terminate on December 31, 2011, solely with respect to purchases of the Company's common stock by ESL after such date, provided that ESL may continue to seek successive annual one-year extensions of Toyota's Consent, and Toyota shall not unreasonably withhold or delay its consent thereto. All other terms and conditions of the Toyota Agreement were unchanged.
The foregoing summaries of the Toyota Agreement and the Second Extension Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to such agreements. The Toyota Agreement, together with all amendments thereto, including the Second Extension Agreement, are filed as exhibits hereto, and each is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
James Lentz, President
19001 South Western Avenue
Torrance, California 90509
 
Dear Mr. Lentz:
Reference is made to that certain letter agreement (the ""), dated as of January 28, 2009, as extended by that certain extension agreement (the ""), dated November 23, 2009, and as amended by that certain amendment (the ""), dated April 23, 2010, by and among Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (""), AutoNation, Inc. (""), ESL Investments, Inc. and its investment affiliates set forth on to the Consent Agreement and such other investment affiliates of ESL Investments, Inc. or individuals that may be added as parties to the Consent Agreement from time to time pursuant to paragraph 9 of the Consent Agreement. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this letter agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Consent Agreement.
Consent Agreement
Extension Agreement
Amendment
Toyota
AutoNation
Exhibit A
Each of the parties hereto hereby: (i) agrees that the "Termination Date" of the Consent Agreement as set forth in paragraph 7 thereto, which previously read "December 31, 2009", and which was extended by the Extension Agreement to read "December 31, 2010", shall be amended to read "December 31, 2011" and (ii) reaffirms the terms of the Consent Agreement, as amended by the Amendment and as further extended by this letter agreement, and agrees that the Consent Agreement, as so amended, shall remain in full force and effect until terminated in accordance with its terms.
This letter agreement (a) may not be amended, waived or modified except by an instrument in writing signed by Toyota, AutoNation and ESL Investments, Inc. and (b) may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but which when taken together shall constitute one and the same letter agreement.
Please acknowledge your agreement to the foregoing by signing and returning to the undersigned as soon as possible a counterpart of this letter.
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
Page 2
 
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
Page 3
 
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
Page 4
 
 


