FILE:AN/AN-8K-20100211070039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 11, 2010, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Marc Cannon
(954) 769-3146
Cannonm@autonation.com
Investor contact:
Derek Fiebig
954-769-7342
 
 
 
 
 
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2009 fourth quarter GAAP net income from continuing operations of $62 million or $0.36 per share, compared to $73 million or $0.42 per share for the prior year. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company had a benefit from a tax adjustment of $13 million or $0.07 per share. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company had a net benefit of $51 million or $0.29 per share, related primarily to favorable tax items and gains on the repurchase of senior notes. After adjusting for these items as disclosed in the attached financial tables, adjusted net income from continuing operations for the 2009 fourth quarter was $50 million or $0.29 per share, compared to $23 million or $0.13 per share for the prior year, a 123% increase on a per-share basis.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., (February 11, 2010) AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE: AN),
Fourth quarter 2009 revenue totaled $2.8 billion, compared to $2.6 billion in the year-ago period, an 8% increase, driven primarily by stronger new vehicle unit sales which increased 7%. In the fourth quarter, total U.S. industry new vehicle retail unit sales increased 6%, based on CNW Research data.
Commenting on the fourth quarter, Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We delivered solid profitability in the fourth quarter, achieved our first year-over-year increase in new vehicle unit sales since the second quarter of 2005, and maintained the benefits of our actions taken in response to the economic downturn. By lowering our structural costs and debt levels and more efficiently managing our inventory, we were able to deliver solid EPS growth in a very difficult environment."
AutoNation has three operating segments: Domestic, Import, and Premium Luxury. The Domestic segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured by General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler; the Import segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Toyota, Honda, and Nissan; and the Premium Luxury segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Mercedes, BMW, and Lexus. Segment results for the fourth quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
(1) Segment income is defined as operating income less floorplan interest expense.
For the full year ended December 31, 2009, the Company reported GAAP net income from continuing operations of $234 million or $1.32 per share, compared to a GAAP net loss from continuing operations of $1.2 billion or $6.82 per share for the prior year. After adjusting for certain items (including the goodwill and franchise rights impairment charges recorded in the prior year) as disclosed in the attached financial tables, adjusted net income from continuing operations for the full year ended December 31, 2009 was $204 million or $1.15 per share, compared to $180 million or $1.01 per share for the prior year. The Company's revenue for the full year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $10.8 billion, down 20% compared to $13.4 billion in the prior year.
Jackson also stated, "We responded to the dramatic decline in industry volumes, the Chrysler and GM bankruptcies, the credit crisis and staggering unemployment and delivered a full-year adjusted EPS increase of 14%. We are optimistic for the long-term prospects of the auto industry based on the successful restructuring of the domestic auto industry, the move to a demand-pull system and the rationalization of the dealer network. We agree with the view that volumes will be higher this year. Our planning assumption for 2010 industry new unit sales is 11.5 million units with a gradual increase in the selling rate over the course of the year."
The fourth quarter conference call may be accessed at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time today by telephone at 888-769-8515 (pass code: AutoNation) or via the Internet (audio webcast) at by clicking on the "About AutoNation" and then "Webcasts & Presentations." A playback of the conference call will be available after 12:00 (noon) p.m. Eastern Time February 11, 2010 through February 19, 2010 by calling 866-487-7599 (pass code: 75300).
http://www.AutoNation.com
 
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and has been named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer by FORTUNE Magazine in five of the last seven years. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owns and operates 246 new vehicle franchises in 15 states. For additional information, please visit or .
http://corp.AutoNation.com
www.AutoNation.com
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals, are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements under the securities laws. These forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: economic conditions generally; conditions in the credit markets and changes in interest rates; assumptions and expectations relating to financial covenants contained in our debt agreements; the success and financial viability of vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold franchises; factors affecting our goodwill impairment testing; natural disasters and other adverse weather events; restrictions imposed by vehicle manufacturers; the resolution of legal and administrative proceedings; regulatory factors affecting our business; and other factors described in our news releases and filings made under the securities laws, including, among others, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
This press release and the attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, adjusted in each case to exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company has provided reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are set forth in the attachments to this release. The Company believes that each of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures improves the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provides a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improves the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations
.
 
 
 
 
 
NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
 
NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable Basis Reconciliations*
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


