FILE:AN/AN-8K-20110426074850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 26, 2011, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2011 first quarter net income from continuing operations of $70 million or $0.46 per share, compared to net income from continuing operations of $59 million or $0.34 per share for the same period in the prior year, a 35% improvement on a per-share basis.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., (April 26, 2011) AutoNation, Inc.
(NYSE: AN),
2011 first quarter revenue totaled $3.3 billion, compared to $2.8 billion in the year-ago period, an increase of 17%, driven primarily by stronger retail new and used vehicle revenue which increased 19%. AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 20% on a same store basis and 23% overall which were in line with the industry according to CNW research data.
AutoNation's 2011 first quarter retail used vehicle revenue increased 13%. Parts and service revenue increased 6%, and finance and insurance revenue increased 16% compared to the first quarter 2010.
In the first quarter of 2011, gross profit per new vehicle retailed benefited by $82 from the recognition of certain performance-based manufacturer incentives, which were related to premium luxury vehicles previously sold. Gross profit and operating income in the first quarter of 2011 were favorably impacted by $4.6 million related to these incentives.
Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We delivered solid double-digit growth in the first quarter, which was driven by both new and used vehicle unit sales and revenue."
Commenting on the impact of the Japan earthquake on the full-year industry outlook, Mr. Jackson said, "While the underlying recovery in consumer demand for autos remains on track in the United States, due to Japanese supply constraints throughout the remainder of 2011, we are revising our planning assumption for 2011 full-year U.S. industry new vehicle sales downward from 12.8 million units to mid-12 million units. Based on current information, we see significant reductions in vehicle shipments from Japanese manufacturers through year-end, with the resumption of normal shipment levels in early 2012."
Mr. Jackson added, "Our diversified business model is resilient and adaptable. We are confident we can manage through the challenges presented by Japanese product constraints. We also continue to be optimistic about the long-term recovery for the U.S. auto market."
AutoNation has three operating segments: Domestic, Import, and Premium Luxury. The Domestic segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured by General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler; the Import segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Toyota, Honda, and Nissan; and the Premium Luxury segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Mercedes, BMW, and Lexus. Segment results for the first quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
The first quarter conference call may be accessed by telephone at (888)-769-8515 (password: AutoNation). The webcast will be available on AutoNation's investor relations website at under "Webcasts & Presentations." A playback of the conference call will be available after 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time on April 26, 2011 through May 6, 2011 by calling (888)568-0087 (password: 75300).
corp.autonation.com/investors
 
 
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and has been named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer by FORTUNE Magazine five times. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owned and operated 243 new vehicle franchises in 15 states as of March 31, 2011. For additional information, please visit or .
http://corp.AutoNation.com
www.AutoNation.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "goals," "plans," "believes," "continues," "may," "will," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
Statements regarding our expectations for the automotive retail industry, including statements regarding the impact
on our business
of the earthquake
and tsunami that struck
Japan, as well as statements that describe our objectives, goals, or plans, are forward-looking statements.
Our
forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements.
These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: economic conditions generally; conditions in the credit markets and changes in interest rates; the success and financial viability of vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold franchises;
the duration and severity of production
and supply chain
disruptions resulting from the natural disasters in Japan, which are uncertain at this time and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations
;
factors affecting our goodwill and other intangible asset impairment testing; natural disasters and other adverse weather events; restrictions imposed by vehicle manufacturers; the resolution of legal and administrative proceedings; regulatory factors affecting our business; and other factors described in our news releases and filings made under the securities laws, including, among others, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K.
Forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
This press release and the attached financial tables
may
contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as
adjusted
net income and earnings per
share from continuing operations, which
exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company provide
s
reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. The Company believes that
these
non-GAAP financial measures improve the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provide a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improve the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


