FILE:AN/AN-8K-20111114081627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date Of Report (Date of earliest event reported) November 9, 2011
 
 
AutoNation, Inc.
(Exact Name Of Registrant As Specified In Its Charter)
 
 
 
200 SW 1st Ave
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301
(Address Of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (954) 769-6000
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On November 9, 2011, Kevin P. Westfall, Senior Vice President, Sales of AutoNation, Inc. (the Company), resigned from the Company to pursue other opportunities. David L. Koehler, a Market President in the Company's Florida Region, was promoted to the position of Senior Vice President, Variable Operations, effective November 14, 2011.
In connection with Mr. Westfall's separation, on November 11, 2011, the Company entered into a Separation Agreement (the Agreement) with Mr. Westfall. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, in consideration for, among other things, his compliance with non-solicitation, confidentiality and cooperation obligations, as well as his compliance with all other agreements between him and the Company, including non-competition agreements, Mr. Westfall will receive the following payments:
Since Mr. Westfall was retirement eligible under the Company's equity compensation plans, pursuant to the terms of those plans all unvested options and unvested shares of restricted stock held by him became immediately vested on November 9, 2011, and all such options and all currently outstanding vested options held by Mr. Westfall will remain exercisable until the earlier of (a) the applicable expiration date or (b) the third anniversary of November 9, 2011.
The foregoing summary of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Agreement. The Agreement is filed as an exhibit hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 10.1
SEPARATION AGREEMENT
AND GENERAL RELEASE OF ALL CLAIMS
This Agreement is made by and between Kevin P. Westfall (Executive) and AutoNation, Inc. (AutoNation or Company) relating to Executive's employment with and retirement from the Company.
    
during any lawsuit or other proceeding brought to enforce the terms of this Agreement, or as required by a lawfully issued subpoena or court order. Executive agrees that if he/she finds it necessary to disclose the terms of this Agreement to his/her representatives, attorneys, or spouse, he/she will inform such persons that they are under an obligation to maintain the confidentiality of such information. The Company may file a copy of this Agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K or otherwise.
knowingly permit any company or business directly or indirectly controlled by him/her to employ, any person who was employed by the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company at or within the prior six (6) months, or in any manner seek to induce any such person to leave his/her employment; (ii) knowingly solicit or induce, through the use of confidential information, any customers of the Company to patronize any business directly or indirectly in competition with the businesses conducted by the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company at any time during Executive's relationship with the Company; and/or (iii) request or advise any person who is a customer or vendor of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or its successors to withdraw, curtail or cancel any such customer's or vendor's business with any such entity.
        
                                                                                
If to the Company
:
    
If to Executive
:
Vice President
    
Kevin P. Westfall
Human Resources
    
8 Navarro Isle
AutoNation, Inc.
    
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33301
200 S.W. 1
st
Ave.
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33301
         
With Copy to
:
General Counsel
AutoNation, Inc.
200 S.W. 1
st
Ave.
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33301
Any party may change the address to which notices hereunder are to be sent to it by giving written notice of a change of address.
Agreement and be obligated to repay to the Company, within 30 days of notice from the Company, any portion of the severance compensation and bonus severance compensation that Executive has received; and (ii) forfeit the right to receive any further installment payments of severance benefits, which will result in the Company ceasing any further installment payments of severance compensation and bonus severance compensation. The Company may also pursue recovery of attorney's fees to the extent allowable under state and/or federal law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the Company and Executive have executed this Separation Agreement and General Release of All Claims on the date set forth by each party below.
I hereby accept and agree to abide by this Agreement:
    
Executive:
/s/ Kevin P. Westfall            
    
Date:
November 11, 2011        
Kevin P. Westfall
Company:
/s/ Julie A. Staub                
    
Date:
November 11, 2011        
    AutoNation, Inc.


