FILE:AN/AN-8K-20110727075004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2011, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
America's largest automotive retailer, today reported 2011 second quarter net income from continuing operations of $73 million, or $0.49 per share, compared to adjusted net income from continuing operations of $62 million, or $0.38 per share, for the same period in the prior year, a 29% improvement on a per-share basis. Adjusted net income from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2010 excluded debt refinancing costs of $12 million after-tax, or $0.07 per share, as disclosed in the attached financial tables. On a GAAP basis, second quarter 2010 net income from continuing operations was $50 million, or $0.31 per share. There were no adjusting items for the second quarter of 2011.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., (
July 27,
2011) AutoNation, Inc.
(NYSE: AN),
2011 second quarter revenue totaled $3.3 billion, compared to $3.1 billion in the year-ago period, an increase of 8%, driven primarily by higher retail new and used vehicle average selling prices. AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales decreased 4% on a same store basis and were flat overall. Based on CNW Research data, in the second quarter, total U.S. industry new retail vehicle unit sales decreased 2%.
AutoNation's 2011 second quarter retail used vehicle revenue increased 12%. Parts and service revenue increased 5%, and finance and insurance revenue increased 12% compared to the 2010 second quarter.
2011 second quarter gross profit totaled $583 million, compared to $529 million in the year-ago period, an increase of 10%, primarily due to an increase in retail new and used vehicle gross profit, as well as an increase in finance and insurance gross profit. Gross profit in the second quarter of 2011 was favorably impacted by $1.4 million related to incentives on premium luxury vehicles previously sold. On a per-vehicle basis, gross profit per new vehicle retailed increased $539 or 26%, while gross profit per used vehicle retailed increased $174 or 11%, as compared to the year-ago period.
Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We delivered solid double-digit growth in operating income in the second quarter, which was driven by strong new and used vehicle gross profit." Mr. Jackson added, "This quarter we once again demonstrated the strength of our diversified business model, and our ability to react quickly and execute effectively in a changing marketplace."
Commenting on the automotive retail environment, Mr. Jackson added, "We estimate that vehicle shipments from the Japanese manufacturers were approximately 40% below planned levels in the second quarter and that, by September, they will be approximately 10-15% below planned levels. Margins on vehicles from Japanese manufacturers benefitted from constrained supply, and while we believe that they will remain strong in the third quarter, we expect that the improving supply environment will result in lower margins on those vehicles as compared to the second quarter. We believe that the new vehicle sales environment will begin to normalize in the fourth quarter of 2011, and we continue to be optimistic about the long-term recovery for the U.S. auto market."
AutoNation has three operating segments: Domestic, Import, and Premium Luxury. The Domestic segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured by General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler; the Import segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Toyota, Honda, and Nissan; and the Premium Luxury segment is comprised of stores that sell vehicles manufactured primarily by Mercedes, BMW, and Lexus. Segment results for the second quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
For the six-month period ended June 30, 2011, the Company reported net income from continuing operations of $144 million, or $0.95 per share, compared to adjusted net income from continuing operations of $121 million, or $0.72 per share for the same period in the prior year, an improvement of 32% on a per-share basis. Adjusted net income from continuing operations for the six-month period ended June 30, 2010 excludes debt refinancing costs of $12 million after-tax, or $0.07 per share, as disclosed in the attached financial tables. There were no adjusting items for the six-month period ended June 30, 2011. On a GAAP basis, net income from continuing operations for the six-month period ended June 30, 2010 was $109 million, or $0.65 per share. The Company's revenue for the six-month period ended June 30, 2011, totaled $6.6 billion, up 12% compared to $5.9 billion for the same period in the prior year.
The second quarter conference call may be accessed by telephone at (888)-769-8515 (password: AutoNation). The webcast will be available on AutoNation's investor relations website at corp.autonation.com/investors under "Webcasts & Presentations." A playback of the conference call will be available after 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time on July 27, 2011 through August 4, 2011 by calling (866) 414-6075 (password: 75300).
 
 
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owned and operated 254 new vehicle franchises in 15 states as of June 30, 2011. For additional information, please visit http://corp.AutoNation.com or www.AutoNation.com.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "goals," "plans," "believes," "continues," "may," "will," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
Statements regarding our expectations for the automotive retail industry, including statements regarding the impact
on our business
of the earthquake
and tsunami that struck
Japan, as well as statements that describe our objectives, goals, or plans, are forward-looking statements.
Our
forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements.
These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: economic conditions generally; conditions in the credit markets and changes in interest rates; the success and financial viability of vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold franchises;
the duration and severity of production
and supply chain
disruptions resulting from the natural disasters in Japa
n;
factors affecting our goodwill and other intangible asset impairment testing; natural disasters and other adverse weather events; restrictions imposed by vehicle manufacturers; the resolution of legal and administrative proceedings; regulatory factors affecting our business; and other factors described in our news releases and filings made under the securities laws, including, among others, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K.
Forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
This press release and the attached financial tables contain certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules, such as
adjusted
net income and earnings per
share from continuing operations, which
exclude certain items disclosed in the attached financial tables. As required by SEC rules, the Company provide
s
reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. The Company believes that
these
non-GAAP financial measures improve the transparency of the Company's disclosure, provide a meaningful presentation of the Company's results from its core business operations excluding the impact of items not related to the Company's ongoing core business operations, and improve the period-to-period comparability of the Company's results from its core business operations
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


