FILE:AN/AN-8K-20110504074748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 4, 2011, AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing April 2011 retail new vehicle unit sales. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On May 3, 2011, the Board of Directors of AutoNation, Inc. (the "Company") authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $250 million of the Company's common stock, increasing the total amount authorized under the Company's existing stock repurchase program to $395.9 million.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this report:
99.1    Press Release of AutoNation, Inc. dated May 4, 2011 regarding April 2011 retail new vehicle unit sales.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 AutoNation, Inc. (NYSE:AN), America's largest automotive retailer, today announced that its retail new vehicle unit sales in April 2011, as reported to the applicable automotive manufacturers totaled 18,266, an increase of 11% as compared to April 2010. Retail new vehicle unit sales in April 2011 for AutoNation's operating segments were as follows:
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., May 4, 2011
 
 
 
AutoNation also announced that on May 3, 2011, its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $250 million of AutoNation common stock, increasing the total amount authorized under the Company's existing stock repurchase program to $395.9 million.
The information provided in this news release is based on sales reports provided by our stores, including stores acquired since April 2010, to the applicable automotive manufacturers and is provided on a continuing operations basis. These reports are prepared based on the standards established by the applicable automotive manufacturers, which differ from GAAP revenue recognition and other requirements and are based on the time periods set by the automotive manufacturers for reporting monthly sales (which generally differ from the calendar month). As a result, our operating results calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, including our new vehicle unit sales, may differ materially from any results expressed or implied by the information provided in our monthly sales reports and summarized in this news release and future news releases. In addition, new vehicle unit sales
are subject to seasonal trends.
Consequently, new vehicle unit sales for a particular month are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a full quarter or year. Please refer to our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including without limitation our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, for additional information regarding our operations. Investors should not assume that our disclosure of the information in this news release means that we have determined that such information is material to the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "goals," "plans," "believes," "continues," "may," "will," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Statements regarding our expectations for the automotive retail industry, including statements regarding the impact of the earthquake in Japan on our business, as well as statements that describe our objectives, goals, or plans, are forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: economic conditions generally; conditions in the credit markets and changes in interest rates; the success and financial viability of vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold franchises; the duration and severity of production cuts or disruptions resulting from the natural disasters in Japan, which are uncertain at this time and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; factors affecting our goodwill and other intangible asset impairment testing; natural disasters and other adverse weather events; restrictions imposed by vehicle manufacturers; the resolution of legal and administrative proceedings; regulatory factors affecting our business; and other factors described in our news releases and filings made under the securities laws, including, among others, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. Forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About AutoNation, Inc.
AutoNation, Inc., headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is America's largest automotive retailer and has been named America's Most Admired Automotive Retailer by FORTUNE Magazine five times. A component of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, AutoNation owned and operated 246 new vehicle franchises in 15 states as of April 30, 2011. For additional information, please visit or .
http://corp.AutoNation.com
www.AutoNation.com


