FILE:AN/AN-8K-20111130171342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date Of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
: November 29, 2011
 
 
AutoNation, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
200 SW 1st Ave
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(954) 769-6000
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 1.01
    
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
As previously announced on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
SEC
) on January 29, 2009 (the January 2009 8-K) by AutoNation, Inc. (the Company), the Board of Directors of the Company approved a letter agreement with Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (Toyota, and such agreement, the Toyota Agreement) in order to, among other things, eliminate any potential adverse consequences under Toyota's framework agreement with the Company in the event that ESL Investments, Inc. and certain investment affiliates of ESL Investments, Inc. (together, ESL) acquired more than fifty percent (50%) of the Company's common stock. The Toyota Agreement also contains governance-related and other provisions as described in the January 2009 8-K. Based on a Schedule 13D/A filed by ESL with the SEC on October 31, 2011, ESL beneficially owns approximately fifty-six percent (56%) of the Company's common stock.
Under the Toyota Agreement (as previously extended and amended), Toyota's consent (the Consent) to ESL acquiring more than fifty percent (50%) of the Company's common stock would have terminated on December 31, 2011, solely with respect to ESL purchases of the Company's common stock after such date, unless it was extended by Toyota.
On November 29, 2011, the Company entered into an extension and amendment agreement to the Toyota Agreement (the Extension and Amendment Agreement) with Toyota and ESL. The Extension and Amendment Agreement grants an additional one-year extension of Toyota's Consent under the Toyota Agreement and amends the Toyota Agreement to provide that the Toyota Agreement and Toyota's Consent will terminate in the event that ESL's ownership of the Company's outstanding common stock falls to forty percent (40%) or lower (rather than fifty percent (50%) or lower). Toyota's Consent under the Toyota Agreement will now terminate on December 31, 2012 (unless it is terminated earlier as provided in the Toyota Agreement) with respect to purchases of the Company's common stock by ESL after such date, provided that ESL may continue to seek successive annual one-year extensions of Toyota's Consent, and Toyota may not unreasonably withhold or delay its consent thereto, except that if ESL has owned fifty percent (50%) or less of the Company's outstanding common stock for two years preceding the date that ESL seeks an extension, then Toyota may withhold such consent in its sole discretion.
The foregoing summaries of the Toyota Agreement and the Extension and Amendment Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to such agreements. The Toyota Agreement, together with all amendments thereto, including the Extension and Amendment Agreement, are filed as exhibits hereto, and each is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 10.5
November 29, 2011
Dear Mr. Lentz:
Reference is made to that certain letter agreement (the 
Consent Agreement
), dated as of January 28, 2009, as extended and amended from time to time, by and among Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (
Toyota
), AutoNation, Inc. (
AutoNation
), ESL Investments, Inc. and its investment affiliates set forth on
Exhibit A
to the Consent Agreement and such other investment affiliates of ESL Investments, Inc. or individuals that have been or may be added as parties to the Consent Agreement from time to time pursuant to paragraph 9 of the Consent Agreement. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this letter agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Consent Agreement.
Each of the parties hereto hereby agrees that:
(i) the phrase which shall only apply at such time and for so long as ESL Owns more than fifty percent (50%) of the then outstanding Common Stock shall be deleted from the second paragraph of the Consent Agreement;
(ii) the first sentence of the Consent Agreement shall be amended to read Reference is made to that certain Framework Agreement, dated as of September 26, 1997 (as amended or supplemented from time to time, the 
Framework Agreement
), by and between Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (
Toyota
) and AutoNation, Inc. (formerly known as Republic Industries, Inc.) (
AutoNation
).;
(iii) the first sentence of paragraph 7 of the Consent Agreement shall be amended to read Toyota's consent and waiver pursuant to this letter agreement shall terminate on December 31, 2012 (the 
Termination Date
) solely with respect to shares of Common Stock acquired by ESL after the Termination Date, provided that ESL may seek successive annual one-year extensions of the Termination Date and Toyota shall not unreasonably withhold or delay its consent thereto, except that if ESL has owned fifty percent (50%) or less of the outstanding Common Stock for two years preceding the date that ESL seeks an extension hereunder, then Toyota shall have the right to withhold such consent in its sole discretion.;
(iv) the last sentence of paragraph 7 of the Consent Agreement shall be amended to read Notwithstanding the foregoing, this letter agreement shall remain in effect so long as ESL continues to Own in excess of forty percent (40%) of the then outstanding Common Stock.;
(v) paragraph 8 of the Consent Agreement shall be amended to read In the event that ESL no longer Owns in excess of forty percent (40%) of the then outstanding Common Stock (including, without limitation, because of a disposal of shares under Section 2 above), then (a) this letter agreement, and Toyota's consent and waiver hereunder, shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect, and (b) Sections 6.1.1 and 10 of the Framework Agreement shall apply to any future acquisition of in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the then outstanding Common Stock by ESL; provided, however, that if (i) the exercise of options to purchase Common Stock and/or (ii) the issuance or vesting of restricted shares of Common Stock causes ESL to no longer Own in excess of forty percent (40%) of the then outstanding Common Stock, then this letter agreement, and Toyota's waiver and consent hereunder, shall continue to be in effect until any subsequent disposition of Common Stock by ESL during the time when ESL's Ownership is not in excess of forty percent (40%) of the then outstanding Common Stock as a result of such exercise, issuance or vesting.; and
(vi) the Consent Agreement shall be re-numbered and re-lettered as set forth in the Amended and Restated Consent Agreement attached hereto as
Exhibit 1
(the 
Amended and Restated Consent Agreement
).
Each of the parties hereto hereby reaffirms the terms of the Consent Agreement, as amended by the Amendment and this letter agreement, and as extended by the First Extension Agreement, the Second Extension Agreement and this letter agreement, and agrees that the Consent Agreement, as so amended and extended, shall remain in full force and effect until terminated in accordance with its terms.
This letter agreement (a) may not be amended, waived or modified except by an instrument in writing signed by Toyota, AutoNation and ESL Investments, Inc. and (b) may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but which when taken together shall constitute one and the same letter agreement.
The parties further agree that the Consent Agreement, as amended and extended through the date hereof, shall from and after the date of this letter agreement, be represented by the Amended and Restated Consent Agreement, except as set forth in an instrument in writing signed by Toyota, AutoNation and ESL Investments, Inc.
Please acknowledge your agreement to the foregoing by signing and returning to the undersigned as soon as possible a counterpart of this letter.
Very truly yours,
ESL INVESTMENTS, INC.
Name: William C. Crowley
Title: President and Chief Operating Officer
ESL PARTNERS, L.P.
Name: William C. Crowley
Title: President and Chief Operating Officer
ESL INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERS, L.P.
Name: William C. Crowley
Title: President and Chief Operating Officer
ESL INVESTORS, L.L.C.
Name: William C. Crowley
Title: President and Chief Operating Officer
CBL PARTNERS, L.P.
Name: William C. Crowley
Title: President and Chief Operating Officer
TYNAN, LLC
Name: William C. Crowley
Title: Manager
RBS PARTNERS, L.P.
Name: William C. Crowley
Title: President and Chief Operating Officer
RBS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, L.L.C.
Name: William C. Crowley
Title: President and Chief Operating Officer
EDWARD S. LAMPERT
/s/ Edward S. Lampert
    
Edward S. Lampert
WILLIAM C. CROWLEY
/s/ William C. Crowley
    
William C. Crowley
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED TO
AS OF THE DATE FIRST WRITTEN ABOVE:
TOYOTA MOTOR SALES, U.S.A., INC.
/s/ James Lentz
James Lentz, President
AUTONATION, INC.
/s/ Michael E. Maroone
Michael E. Maroone, President
Exhibit 1
January 28, 2009, amended and restated as of
November 29, 2011
Dear Sir or Madam:
Reference is made to that certain Framework Agreement, dated as of September 26, 1997 (as amended or supplemented from time to time, the 
Framework Agreement
), by and between Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (
Toyota
) and AutoNation, Inc. (formerly known as Republic Industries, Inc.) (
AutoNation
). Capitalized terms used but not defined in this letter agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Framework Agreement.
At each Stockholders' Meeting and in connection with the execution of each Stockholders' Consent, in either case at such times that ESL Owns in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the then outstanding Common Stock, all shares of Common Stock Owned by ESL in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the then outstanding Common Stock (the 
Additional Shares
) on the applicable record date shall be voted on each matter proposed in the same proportion as all outstanding shares of Common Stock not Owned by ESL are actually voted on such matter (it being understood that, in connection with any Stockholders' Consent, shares of Common Stock not Owned by ESL that abstain or are not present will be treated as shares abstaining or not present, as the case may be).
In addition, the Chief Operating Officer of AutoNation shall have sufficient breadth and depth of experience, a relevant, successful automotive track record and extensive successful automotive experience, in each case as determined in the good faith judgment of AutoNation's board of directors. In the event AutoNation's board of directors appoints a Chief Operating Officer who either is not Michael E. Maroone or does not, in the good faith judgment of AutoNation's board of directors, meet the standards in the immediately preceding sentence, Toyota may notify AutoNation of same in writing within sixty (60) days after the public announcement of such appointment. AutoNation will reasonably cooperate with Toyota in Toyota's efforts to obtain information regarding the experience and qualifications of the newly appointed Chief Operating Officer. Within twenty (20) days after receiving Toyota's written notice, AutoNation may initiate the dispute resolution procedures of Exhibit 13 of the Framework Agreement (the 
Dispute Resolution
). In the event that AutoNation does not initiate the Dispute Resolution within twenty (20) days, ESL shall be required to dispose of the Additional Shares no later than nine (9) months after receipt of Toyota's notice referred to above, or if AutoNation does initiate the Dispute Resolution within twenty (20) days and if a final determination is made that the Chief Operating Officer does not meet the foregoing requirements, ESL shall be required to dispose of the Additional Shares not later than nine (9) months after the conclusion of the Dispute Resolution (in either case, the relevant nine (9) month period being the 
Disposal Period
).
In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, ESL fails to dispose of the Additional Shares under the circumstances required by the preceding
paragraph (a) within the Disposal Period or (b) within nine (9) months after the conclusion of the Disposal Period, then until ESL disposes of the Additional Shares, all shares of Common Stock Owned by ESL in excess of twenty-five percent (25%) in the case of clause (a) above, or in excess of zero percent (0%) in the case of clause (b) above, of the then outstanding Common Stock on the applicable record date for any AutoNation Stockholders' Meeting or Stockholders' Consent shall be voted on each matter proposed in the same proportion as all outstanding shares of Common Stock not Owned by ESL are actually voted on such matter (it being understood that, in connection with any Stockholders' Consent, shares of Common Stock not Owned by ESL that abstain or are not present will be treated as shares abstaining or not present, as the case may be).
ESL shall not purchase any Common Stock after the commencement of the Disposal Period. In the event ESL fails to dispose of the Additional Shares by the end of the Disposal Period, ESL hereby consents to the entry of a court order directing ESL to comply with the voting restrictions set forth in the preceding paragraph pending such disposition. ESL shall reimburse Toyota for Toyota's reasonable attorneys' fees in obtaining or enforcing such court order.
This letter constitutes Toyota's consent to the ESL Acquisition to the extent any such consent is required under any Toyota Dealer Agreement or Lexus Dealer Agreement. Other than as set forth in the preceding sentence, nothing in this letter shall constitute a waiver or modification of any party's rights or remedies under, or any other provision in, any Dealer Agreements; provided that the terms of this letter agreement shall supersede any terms of the Dealer Agreements to the extent of any contrary provisions but only for so long as this letter agreement is in effect.
This letter agreement (a) may not be amended, waived or modified except by an instrument in writing signed by Toyota, AutoNation and ESL Investments, Inc. and (b) may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but which when taken together shall constitute one and the same letter agreement. Neither this letter agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by Toyota, AutoNation or ESL (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other parties. Subject to the preceding sentence, this letter agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Toyota, AutoNation and ESL and their respective successors and assigns.
Please acknowledge your agreement to the foregoing by signing and returning to the undersigned as soon as possible a counterpart of this letter.
Exhibit A
ESL Partners, L.P.
ESL Institutional Partners, L.P.
ESL Investors, L.L.C.
CBL Partners, L.P.
Tynan, LLC
RBS Partners, L.P.
RBS Investment Management, L.L.C.
Edward S. Lampert
William C. Crowley
Exhibit B
Chief Executive Officer
- Excellent communication and interpersonal skills
- Tone from the top - ability to set the right standard of conduct for the organization
- Ability to motivate retail store leadership
- Ability to align organization and motivate management to implement strategy
President & Chief Operating Officer
- Ability to leverage scale and implement standardized processes
- Ability to develop store leadership
- Ability to drive strategic plan to increase customer loyalty and profitability
- Excellent communication and people skills
- Ability to motivate store leadership


