FILE:AN/AN-8K-20120202171702.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
________________________________________ 
FORM 8-K
 
________________________________________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date Of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
: February 1, 2012
 
________________________________________
AutoNation, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
________________________________________
 
200 SW 1st Ave
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(954) 769-6000
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
.
New Incentive Bonus Plan
On February 1, 2012, the Board of Directors (the Board) of AutoNation, Inc. (the Company) adopted a new incentive bonus plan, the AutoNation, Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan (the Incentive Plan). The Incentive Plan, which is administered by the Executive Compensation Subcommittee (the Subcommittee) of the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board, is subject to approval by the Companys stockholders at the 2012 Annual Meeting of AutoNation, Inc. Stockholders. The Incentive Plan, which is substantially identical to and is intended to replace the AutoNation, Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan approved by the Board and the Companys stockholders in 2007, is designed to create a direct link between pay and performance for the Companys executive officers and to ensure that annual cash performance bonuses payable to executive officers of the Company are tax deductible by the Company pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code).
A copy of the Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Incentive Plan and AOP Plan Targets for 2012
On February 1, 2012, the Subcommittee (i) selected the 2012 participants under the Incentive Plan, (ii) established specific objective annual performance goals for 2012 under the Incentive Plan and the AutoNation Operating Performance Plan (the AOP Plan), a separate bonus plan for bonus-eligible, corporate-level employees who are not participants under the Incentive Plan, and (iii) set target awards for the 2012 participants under the Incentive Plan and the AOP Plan.
The Subcommittee selected the following executive officers to participate in the Incentive Plan for 2012: Mike Jackson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Michael E. Maroone, President and Chief Operating Officer; Jonathan P. Ferrando, Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary; Michael J. Short, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; David L. Koehler, Senior Vice President, Sales; and Alan J. McLaren, Senior Vice President, Customer Care (collectively, the Executive Officers). These officers were selected to participate in the Incentive Plan to ensure tax deductibility of bonuses under Section 162(m) of the Code.
The 2012 performance goals established by the Subcommittee under the Incentive Plan are based upon the achievement of specified levels of adjusted operating income per basic share (
minus a net charge for capital deployed for acquisitions or share repurchases
and subject to an adjustment for certain extraordinary or other items
) and adjusted operating income as a percentage of gross profit for the Company during 2012. The target awards under the Incentive Plan are expressed as a percentage of base salary for each Executive Officer that ranges from 45% to 133-1/3%.
The 2012 performance goals established under the Incentive Plan also constitute the performance goals that the Committee established under the AOP Plan. The target awards under the AOP Plan are also expressed as a percentage of base salary. The Executive Officers do not participate in the AOP Plan.
Bonus awards under both the Incentive Plan and the AOP Plan will be payable on a sliding scale based on the Companys actual achievement relative to the predetermined goals, meaning that bonuses earned may exceed or be less than the targeted level, and bonus payouts are subject to minimum thresholds of performance. The Subcommittee has absolute negative discretion to eliminate or reduce the amount of any award under the Incentive Plan or the AOP Plan.
2012 Annual Stock Option and Restricted Stock Awards
On February 1, 2012, the Subcommittee also approved annual stock option and restricted stock awards for all of the Companys equity grant-eligible employees under the AutoNation, Inc. 2008 Employee Equity and Incentive Plan (the 2008 Plan). The annual awards include stock option awards for our Executive Officers, specifically, Mike Jackson - 201,336 options, Michael E. Maroone - 161,140 options, Jonathan P. Ferrando - 121,080 options, Michael J. Short - 121,080 options, David L. Koehler - 12,108 options, and Alan J. McLaren - 12,108 options. Additionally, the annual awards include restricted stock awards for Messrs. Koehler and McLaren, who will each receive 4,036 shares of restricted stock (the other Executive Officers did not receive restricted stock awards).
One-fourth (1/4) of each stock option award approved by the Subcommittee will be granted on the first trading day of each of March, June, September and December 2012, with an exercise price equal to the closing price of our common stock on
each such grant date, subject to continuous employment through each such grant date. Each of the four option grants comprising an annual award will vest in 25% annual increments on each of the first four anniversaries of June 1, 2012 and will expire on March 1, 2022 (subject to earlier termination in accordance with the terms of the 2008 Plan and the applicable award agreements). The restricted stock awards approved by the Subcommittee will be granted on the first trading day of March 2012 and will vest in 25% annual increments on each of the first four anniversaries of June 1, 2012.
Amendment to 2007 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan
On February 1, 2012, the Board approved an amendment (the Amendment) to the AutoNation, Inc. 2007 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (as amended on October 26, 2010, the 2007 Plan), pursuant to which each of the Companys non-employee directors receives an automatic option grant on the first trading day of each March, June, September, and December. Prior to the adoption of the Amendment, each option granted under the 2007 Plan was immediately exercisable and expired on the tenth anniversary of the option grant date. The Amendment provides that, after February 1, 2012, (1) each option granted under the 2007 Plan shall vest and become exercisable with respect to 25% of the total number of shares underlying the option on June 1 of the year following the year in which the option is granted (the Initial Vesting Date) and with respect to an additional 25% on each of the next three succeeding anniversaries of the Initial Vesting Date, (2) except as set forth in (3) below, in the event an optionee ceases to be a non-employee director, then any options held by such director shall become immediately vested and exercisable until the earlier of (a) 30 days following the date the optionee ceases to be a non-employee director and (b) the expiration of the options, (3) in the event an optionee ceases to be a non-employee director because of retirement, death or permanent and total disability (each as defined in the 2007 Plan), then any options held by such director shall become immediately vested and exercisable until the earlier of (x) the third anniversary of the date of such retirement, death or permanent and total disability and (y) the expiration of the options, and (4) each option granted thereunder shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the first option grant date in the year in which the option was granted.
A copy of the Amendment is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 10.1
AUTONATION, INC.
SENIOR EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN
1. Purpose. The purpose of the AutoNation, Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan is to align the interests of Company management with those of the shareholders of the Company by encouraging management to achieve goals intended to increase shareholder value.
2. Definitions. The following terms, as used herein, shall have the following meanings:
(a) Award shall mean an incentive compensation award, granted pursuant to the Plan, which is contingent upon the attainment of Performance Factors with respect to a Performance Period.
(b) Board shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
(c) Code shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(d) Committee shall mean the Executive Compensation Subcommittee of the Board or such other committee or subcommittee as may be appointed by the Board to administer the Plan in accordance with Section 3 of the Plan.
(e) Common Stock shall mean the common stock of the Company, par value $.01 per share.
(f) Company shall mean AutoNation, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation.
(g) Disability shall mean permanent disability as determined pursuant to the long-term disability plan or policy of the Company or its Subsidiaries in effect at the time of such disability and applicable to a Participant.
(h) Effective Date shall mean January 1, 2012.
(i) Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(j) Executive Officer shall mean an officer of the Company or its Subsidiaries who is an executive officer within the meaning of Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
(k) Participant shall mean an Executive Officer or other key employee who is, pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan, selected to participate herein.
(l) Performance Factors shall mean the criteria and objectives, determined by the Committee, which must be met during the applicable Performance Period as a condition of the Participant's receipt of payment with respect to an Award. Performance Factors shall be based upon any or all of the following or any combination thereof: net income (before or after taxes); operating income; gross margin; earnings before all or any of interest, taxes, depreciation and/or amortization (EBIT, EBITA or EBITDA); revenue; unit sales; cash flow; return on equity; return on assets; return on capital; asset management (e.g., inventory and receivable levels); earnings from continuing operations; cost reduction goals or levels of expenses, costs or liabilities; market share; customer satisfaction or any increase or decrease of one or more of the foregoing over a specified period. Such Performance Factors may relate to the performance of the Company, a Subsidiary, any portion of the business (including one or more stores or franchises), product line or any combination thereof and may be expressed on an aggregate, per share (outstanding or fully diluted) or per unit basis. Where applicable, the Performance Factors may be expressed in terms of attaining a specified level of the particular criteria, the attainment of a percentage increase or decrease in the particular criteria, or may be applied to the performance of the Company, a Subsidiary, any portion of the business (including one or more stores or franchises), product line, or any combination thereof, relative to a market index, a group of other companies (or their subsidiaries, any portion of their businesses (including one or more stores or franchises) or product lines), or a combination thereof, all as determined by the Committee. Performance Factors may include a threshold level of performance below which no payment shall be made, levels of performance below the target level but above the threshold level at which specified percentages of the Award shall be paid, a target level of performance at which the full Award shall be paid, levels of performance above the target level but below the maximum level at which specified multiples of the Award shall be paid, and a maximum level of performance above which no additional payment shall be made. Performance Factors may also specify that payments for levels of performances between specified levels will be interpolated. The Committee shall have the sole discretion to determine whether, or to what extent, Performance Factors are achieved; provided, however, that the Committee
shall have the authority to make appropriate adjustments in Performance Factors under an Award to reflect the impact of extraordinary items not reflected in such goals. For purposes of the Plan, extraordinary items shall be defined as (1) any profit or loss attributable to acquisitions or dispositions of stock or assets, (2) any changes in accounting standards or treatments that may be required or permitted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or adopted by the Company or its Subsidiaries after the goal is established, (3) all items of gain, loss or expense for the year related to restructuring charges for the Company or its Subsidiaries, (4) all items of gain, loss or expense for the year determined to be extraordinary or unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence or related to the disposal of a segment of a business, (5) all items of gain, loss or expense for the year related to discontinued operations that do not qualify as a segment of a business as defined in APB Opinion No. 30 (or successor literature), (6) the impact of capital expenditures, (7) the impact of share repurchases and other changes in the number of outstanding shares, and (8) such other items as may be permitted by Section 162(m) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder as may be in effect from time to time, and any amendments, revisions or successor provisions and any changes thereto.
(m) Performance Period shall mean the twelve-month periods commencing on January 1, 2012 and each January 1 thereafter, or such other periods as the Committee shall determine; provided that a Performance Period for a Participant who becomes employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries following the commencement of a Performance Period may be a shorter period that commences with the date of the commencement of such employment.
(n) Person shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.
(o) Plan shall mean this AutoNation, Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan.
(p) Subsidiary shall mean any company, partnership, limited liability company, business or entity (other than the Company) of which at least 50% of the combined voting power of its voting securities is, or the operations and management are, directly or indirectly controlled by the Company.
3. Administration. The Plan shall be administered by a Committee or Subcommittee (in either case, hereinafter referred to as a Committee) of the Board. The Committee shall have the authority in its sole discretion, subject to and not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, to administer the Plan and to exercise all the powers and authorities either specifically granted to it under the Plan or necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, the authority to grant Awards; to determine the persons to whom and the time or times at which Awards shall be granted; to determine the terms, conditions, restrictions and performance criteria, including Performance Factors, relating to any Award; to determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled, cancelled, forfeited, or surrendered; to make adjustments in the Performance Factors in recognition of unusual or non-recurring events affecting the Company or its Subsidiaries or the financial statements of the Company or its Subsidiaries, or in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles; to construe and interpret the Plan and any Award; to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; to determine the terms and provisions of Awards; and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
The Committee shall consist of two or more persons each of whom shall be an outside director within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Committee shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company and the Participant (or any person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Participant).
Subject to Section 162(m) of the Code or as otherwise required for compliance with other applicable law, the Committee may delegate all or any part of its authority under the Plan to an employee, employees or committee of employees.
4. Eligibility. Awards may be granted to Participants in the sole discretion of the Committee. In determining the persons to whom Awards shall be granted and the Performance Factors relating to each Award, the Committee shall take into account such factors as the Committee shall deem relevant in connection with accomplishing the purposes of the Plan.
5. Terms of Awards. Awards granted pursuant to the Plan shall be communicated to Participants in such form as the Committee shall from time to time approve and the terms and conditions of such Awards shall be set forth therein.
(a) In General. On or prior to the date on which 25% of a Performance Period has elapsed, the Committee shall specify in writing, by resolution of the Committee or other appropriate action, the Participants for such Performance Period and the Performance Factors applicable to each Award for each Participant with respect to such Performance Period. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in connection with specified terminations of employment, payment in respect of Awards shall be made only if and to the extent the Performance Factors with respect to such Performance Period are attained.
(b) Special Provisions Regarding Awards. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in no event shall payment in respect of Awards granted hereunder exceed $5,000,000 to any one Participant in any one year. The Committee may at its discretion decrease the amount of an Award payable upon attainment of the specified Performance Factors, but in no event may the Committee increase at its discretion the amount of an Award payable upon attainment of the specified Performance Factors.
(c) Time and Form of Payment. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, all payments in respect of Awards granted under this Plan shall be made in cash within two and one-half (2 ) months after the end of the Performance Period.
6. Term. Subject to the approval of the Plan by the holders of a majority of the Common Stock represented and voting on the proposal at the annual meeting of Company stockholders to be held in 2012 (or any adjournment thereof), the Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 2012 and shall continue in effect until all awards for Performance Periods ending on or before December 31, 2016 have been paid, unless earlier terminated as provided below.
7. General Provisions.
(a) Compliance with Legal Requirements. The Plan and the granting and payment of Awards, and the other obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any regulatory or governmental agency as may be required.
(b) Nontransferability. Awards shall not be transferable by a Participant except upon the Participant's death following the end of the Performance Period but prior to the date payment is made, in which case the Award shall be transferable in accordance with any beneficiary designation made by the Participant in accordance with Section 7(k) below or, in the absence thereof, by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
(c) No Right To Continued Employment. Nothing in the Plan or in any Award granted pursuant hereto shall confer upon any Participant the right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or to be entitled to any remuneration or benefits not set forth in the Plan or to interfere with or limit in any way whatever rights otherwise exist of the Company or its Subsidiaries to terminate such Participant's employment or change such Participant's remuneration.
(d) Withholding Taxes. Where a Participant or other person is entitled to receive a payment pursuant to an Award hereunder, the Company shall have the right either to deduct from the payment, or to require the Participant or such other person to pay to the Company prior to delivery of such payment, an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, local or other withholding tax requirements related thereto.
(e) Amendment and Termination of the Plan. The Board or the Committee may at any time and from time to time alter, amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; provided that no amendment that requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to continue to comply with Code Section 162(m) shall be effective unless the same shall be approved by the requisite vote of the stockholders of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment shall affect adversely any of the rights of any Participant under any Award following the end of the Performance Period to which such Award relates, provided that the exercise of the Committee's discretion pursuant to Section 5(b) to reduce the amount of an Award shall not be deemed an amendment of the Plan.
(f) Participant Rights. No Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment for Participants.
(g) Termination of Employment.
(h) Unfunded Status of Awards. The Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award shall give any such Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company.
(i) Governing Law. The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof.
(j) Effective Date. The Plan shall take effect upon its adoption by the Board; provided, however, that the Plan shall be subject to the requisite approval of the stockholders of the Company in order to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code. In the absence of such approval, the Plan (and any Awards made pursuant to the Plan prior to the date of such approval) shall be null and void.
(k) Beneficiary. A Participant may file with the Committee a written designation of a beneficiary on such form as may be prescribed by the Committee and may, from time to time, amend or revoke such designation. If no designated beneficiary survives the Participant and an Award is payable to the Participant's beneficiary pursuant to Section 7(b), the executor or administrator of the Participant's estate shall be deemed to be the grantee's beneficiary.
(l) Interpretation. The Plan is designed and intended to comply, to the extent applicable, with Section 162(m) of the Code, and all provisions hereof shall be construed in a manner to so comply.

Exhibit 10.2
AMENDMENT TO THE AUTONATION, INC.
2007 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors (the Board) of AutoNation, Inc. (the Company) has determined that it is in the best interest of the Company that the AutoNation, Inc. 2007 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, as previously amended (the Plan), be further amended to provide for a vesting schedule to be applied to quarterly stock option grants and to modify certain other provisions; and
WHEREAS, the Board has the authority under Section 12 of the Plan to amend the Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to Section 12 thereof, the Plan is hereby amended as set forth below:
1. The first two sentences of Section 7 of the Plan are hereby amended in their entirety to read as follows:
Subject to the provisions of Section 9 hereof, each Option shall expire on the tenth (10
th
) anniversary of the first Automatic Grant Date in the year in which the Option was granted. Subject to the provisions of Section 9 hereof, each Option shall become exercisable with respect to 25% of the total number of shares subject to the Option on June 1
st
of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which the applicable Automatic Grant Date occurs (the Initial Vesting Date) and with respect to an additional 25% of the number of such shares on each of the next three succeeding anniversaries of the Initial Vesting Date.
2. The first 2 sentences of Section 9 of the Plan are hereby amended in their entirety to read as follows:
Should an Optionee cease to be a Non-Employee Director for any reason other than Retirement, death or permanent and total disability (as that term is defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, as now in effect or as subsequently amended), such Optionee's Options shall become exercisable in full and shall remain exercisable (including, in the event of the Optionee's death, by the Optionee's heirs, legatees, or legal representative, as the case may be), until the earlier of (i) thirty (30) days following the date the Optionee ceases to be a Non-Employee Director and (ii) the expiration date of the Option. Should an Optionee cease to be a Non-Employee Director because of Retirement, death or permanent and total disability (as that term is defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, as now in effect or as subsequently amended), such Optionee's Options shall become exercisable in full and shall remain exercisable (including, in the event of the Optionee's death, by the Optionee's heirs, legatees, or legal representative, as the case may be) until the earlier of (i) the third anniversary of the date of such Retirement, death or permanent and total disability and (ii) the expiration date of the Option.
3. Section 16 of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
The Plan originally took effect on the date it was approved by the stockholders of the Company (the Effective Date). This amended and restated Plan shall be effective with respect to Options granted on or after February 1, 2012 and shall expire on the 10th anniversary of the Effective Date; provided that the expiration of the Plan shall not affect Options outstanding on the date of such expiration, which Options shall continue to remain outstanding in accordance with their terms.
4. Effect on Plan. Except as expressly amended hereby, the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
5. Amended and Restated Plan. Attached hereto is an amended and restated Plan reflecting the original Plan, as previously amended and as amended hereby.
6. Effective Date. The effective date of this Amendment shall be the date on which it is adopted by the Board.
2007 NON-EMPLOYEE
DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN
AMENDED AND RESTATED AS OF FEBRUARY 1, 2012
1. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE. This 2007 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (this Plan) is intended to promote the interests of AutoNation, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), by offering non-employee members of the Board of Directors of the Company (individually, a Non-Employee Director, and collectively, Non-Employee Directors) the opportunity to participate in a stock option program designed to provide them with significant incentives to remain in the service of the Company.
2. ELIGIBILITY. Each Non-Employee Director shall be eligible to receive grants of nonstatutory options under this Plan (individually, an Option, collectively, Options) pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 hereof. Except for the automatic grants of Options to be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 hereof, Non-Employee Directors shall not be eligible to receive any additional Option grants or stock issuances under this Plan.
3. ADMINISTRATION.
The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board), which shall have the full power and authority to take all actions, and to make all determinations required or provided for under the Plan or any Option granted under the Plan and all such other actions and determinations not inconsistent with the specific terms and provisions of the Plan deemed by the Board to be necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan or any Option granted hereunder. All such actions and determinations shall be by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board present at a meeting at which any issue relating to the Plan is properly raised for consideration or without a meeting by written consent of the Board executed in accordance with the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and with applicable law. The interpretation and construction by the Board of any provision of the Plan or of any Option granted hereunder shall be final and conclusive.
The Board may from time to time appoint a committee or subcommittee (the Committee) consisting of not less than two members of the Board, none of whom shall be an officer or other salaried employee of the Company or any Subsidiary. The Board, in its sole discretion, may provide that the role of the Committee shall be limited to making recommendations to the Board concerning any determinations to be made and actions to be taken by the Board pursuant to or with respect to the Plan, or the Board may delegate to the Committee such powers and authorities related to the administration of the Plan as the Board shall determine, consistent with the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Company and applicable law. The Board may remove members, add members, and fill vacancies on the Committee from time to time, all in accordance with the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and with applicable law. The majority vote of the Committee, or acts reduced to or approved in writing by a majority of the members of the Committee, shall be the valid acts of the Committee.
No member of the Board or of the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Option granted hereunder.
In the event that the Plan or any Option granted hereunder provides for any action to be taken by or determination to be made by the Board, such action may be taken by or such determination may be made by the Committee if the power and authority to do so has been delegated to the Committee by the Board as provided above. Unless otherwise expressly determined by the Board, any such action or determination by the Committee shall be final and conclusive.
4. STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN. The stock issuable under this Plan shall be the shares of the Company's common stock, par value of $.01 per share (Common Stock). Such shares may be made available from authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or shares of Common Stock reacquired by the Company. The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable under exercise of Options upon this Plan shall not exceed 2,000,000 shares, subject to adjustment from time to time in accordance with Section 11 hereof.
5. AUTOMATIC GRANTING OF OPTIONS. Commencing with the first trading day of March 2011, on the first trading day of each March, June, September and December while the Plan is in effect, each individual who is at the time serving as a Non-Employee Director shall receive an automatic grant of an Option to purchase 5,000 shares of Common Stock. The foregoing dates are herein referred to individually as an Automatic Grant Date and collectively as Automatic Grant Dates and the Non-Employee Directors receiving Options are herein referred to individually as an Optionee and collectively as Optionees. Options granted under the Plan are not intended to be treated as incentive stock options as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). For purposes of this Plan, the term trading day shall mean a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or the principal U.S. stock exchange upon the Company's common stock
is listed is open for trading.
In the event that an Option expires or is terminated or canceled and is unexercised as to any shares of Common Stock, the shares subject to the Option, or the portion thereof not so exercised, shall be available for subsequent automatic Option grants under this Plan. Should the total number of shares of Common Stock at the time available under this Plan not be sufficient for the automatic grants to be made at that particular time, the available shares shall be allocated proportionately among all the automatic grants to be made at that time.
6. EXERCISE PRICE. The price per share payable upon exercise of an Option (Exercise Price) shall be the composite closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange or the principal U.S. stock exchange upon which the Company's Common Stock is listed (the Closing Price) on the Automatic Grant Date.
7. DURATION OF OPTIONS AND EXERCISABILITY. Subject to the provisions of Section 9 hereof, each Option shall expire on the tenth (10th) anniversary of the first Automatic Grant Date in the year in which the Option was granted. Subject to the provisions of Section 9 hereof, each Option shall become exercisable with respect to 25% of the total number of shares subject to the Option on June 1st of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which the applicable Automatic Grant Date occurs (the Initial Vesting Date) and with respect to an additional 25% of the number of such shares on each of the next three succeeding anniversaries of the Initial Vesting Date. The Option shall thereafter remain so exercisable until the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term.
Notwithstanding any such provision in this Plan, no later than thirty (30) days after a Change of Control (as defined below), each Optionee shall have the right to require the Company to purchase from the Optionee any Option granted under this Plan at a purchase price equal to (i) the excess of the Closing Price (determined on the trading day preceding the day on which the Optionee provides the written notice described below or, if later, the date preceding the date of the Change of Control) over the Exercise Price, multiplied by (ii) the number of Option shares specified by such individual for purchase by the Company, in a written notice to the Company, attention of the Secretary. A Change of Control shall be deemed to occur if any person shall (a) acquire direct or indirect beneficial ownership of at least 50% of the issued and outstanding Common Stock of the Company, or (b) has the power (whether such power arises as a result of the ownership of capital stock, by contract or otherwise), or the ability to elect or cause the election of directors consisting at the time of such election of a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company. As used herein, person shall mean any person, corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity or any group (as such term is defined in Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder). The amount payable to each such individual by the Company shall be in cash or by certified check and shall be reduced by any taxes required to be withheld.
8. EXERCISE OF OPTION. An Option may be exercised (i) by giving written notice to the Company, attention of the Secretary, specifying the number of shares to be purchased, accompanied by the full purchase price for the shares to be purchased in cash or (ii) in such other manner permitted by the Company, whether through the Company or the Company's stock option administrator.
At any time of any exercise of any Option, the Company may, if it shall determine it necessary or desirable for any reason, require the Optionee (or his or her heirs, legatees, or legal representative, as the case may be), as a condition upon the exercise thereof, to deliver to the Company a written representation of present intention to purchase the shares for investment and not for distribution. In the event such representation is required to be delivered, an appropriate legend may be placed upon each certificate delivered to the Optionee (or his or her heirs, legatees or legal representative, as the case may be) upon his or her exercise of part or all of the Option and a stop transfer order may be placed with the transfer agent. Each Option shall also be subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Company determines, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of the shares subject to the Option upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body is necessary or desirable as a condition or in connection with, the issue or purchase of shares thereunder, the Option may not be exercised in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company.
At the time of the exercise of any Option the Company may require, as a condition of the exercise of such Option, the Optionee to pay the Company an amount equal to the amount of tax the Company is required to withhold to obtain a deduction for federal income tax purposes as a result of the exercise of such Option by the Optionee.
9. TERMINATION OF BOARD MEMBERSHIP - EXERCISE THEREAFTER. Should an Optionee cease to be a Non-Employee Director for any reason other than Retirement, death or permanent and total disability (as that term is defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, as now in effect or as subsequently amended), such Optionee's Options shall become exercisable in full and shall remain exercisable (including, in the event of the Optionee's death, by the Optionee's heirs, legatees, or legal
representative, as the case may be), until the earlier of (i) thirty (30) days following the date the Optionee ceases to be a Non-Employee Director and (ii) the expiration date of the Option.
Should an Optionee cease to be a Non-Employee Director because of Retirement, death or permanent and total disability (as that term is defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, as now in effect or as subsequently amended), such Optionee's Options shall become exercisable in full and shall remain exercisable (including, in the event of the Optionee's death, by the Optionee's heirs, legatees, or legal representative, as the case may be) until the earlier of (i) the third anniversary of the date of such Retirement, death or permanent and total disability and (ii) the expiration date of the Option. For purposes of this Plan, Retirement shall mean termination of Board service as a result of a Non-Employee Director's retirement or resignation from the Board after having reached age 55 and having provided at least six (6) years of Board service to the Company.
10. TRANSFERABILITY OF OPTIONS. No Option shall be assignable or transferable by the Optionee to whom it is granted, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, except that, upon approval by the Board, the Optionee may transfer an Option (a) pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or (b) by gift: to a member of the Family (as defined below) of the Optionee, to or for the benefit of one or more organizations qualifying under Code Sections 501(c) (3) and 170(c) (2) (a Charitable Organization) or to a trust for the exclusive benefit of the Optionee, one or more members of the Optionee's Family, one or more Charitable Organizations, or any combination of the foregoing, provided that any such transferee shall enter into a written agreement to be bound by the terms of this Plan. For this purpose, Family shall mean the ancestors, spouse, siblings, spouses of siblings, lineal descendants and spouses of lineal descendants of the Optionee.
11. ADJUSTMENTS. The number of shares subject to this Plan and to Options granted under this Plan shall be adjusted as follows: (a) in the event that the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock is changed by any stock dividend, stock split or combination of shares, the number of shares subject to this Plan and to Options granted hereunder shall be proportionately adjusted; (b) in the event of any merger, consolidation or reorganization of the Company with any other corporation or corporations, there shall be substituted, on an equitable basis, for each share of Common Stock then subject to this Plan, whether or not at the time subject to outstanding Options, the number and kind of shares of stock or other securities or property to which the holders of shares of Common Stock will be entitled pursuant to the transaction; and (c) in the event of any other relevant change in the capitalization of the Company, an equitable adjustment shall be made in the number and kind of shares of stock or other securities or property then subject to this Plan, whether or not then subject to outstanding Options. In the event of any such adjustment, the Exercise Price per share shall be proportionately adjusted.
12. AMENDMENT OF PLAN. This Plan may from time to time be amended or discontinued by action of the Board of Directors of the Company, provided that (i) no such amendment or discontinuance shall change or impair any Options previously granted without the consent of the Optionee, and (ii) any amendment which would (A) materially increase the benefits accruing to the participants under this Plan, (B) materially increase the number of securities which may be issued under this Plan, and/or (C) materially modify the requirements as to the eligibility for participation in this Plan shall require the approval of the stockholders of the Company, unless such approval is not required by Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the 1934 Act), or any other applicable law.
13. CASH PROCEEDS. Any cash proceeds received by the Company from the sale of shares pursuant to the Options granted under this Plan shall be used for general corporate purposes.
14. NO IMPAIRMENT OF RIGHTS. Nothing in this Plan or any automatic grant made pursuant to this Plan shall be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the Company's right to remove any Optionee from service on the Board of Directors of the Company at any time in accordance with the Company's Bylaws or any provisions of applicable law.
15. COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 16b-3. This Plan is intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors promulgated under the 1934 Act, regardless of whether such conditions are set forth in this Plan.
16. EFFECTIVE DATE. The Plan originally took effect on the date it was approved by the stockholders of the Company (the Effective Date). This amended and restated Plan shall be effective with respect to Options granted on or after February 1, 2012 and shall expire on the 10th anniversary of the Effective Date; provided that the expiration of the Plan shall not affect Options outstanding on the date of such expiration, which Options shall continue to remain outstanding in accordance with their terms.


