FILE:AN/AN-8K-20120511170100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date Of Report (Date Of Earliest Event Reported): May 9, 2012
 
 
AutoNation, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
200 SW 1st Ave
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (954) 769-6000
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
As previously announced, on February 1, 2012, the Board of Directors (the Board) of AutoNation, Inc. (the Company) adopted, subject to stockholder approval, a new incentive bonus plan for senior officers, titled the AutoNation, Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan (the Incentive Plan). At the Companys 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Annual Meeting) held on May 9, 2012, the Companys stockholders approved the Incentive Plan. The Incentive Plan, which is substantially identical to and is intended to replace the AutoNation, Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan approved by the Board and the Companys stockholders in 2007, is designed to create a direct link between pay and performance for the Companys executive officers and to ensure that annual cash performance bonuses payable to executive officers of the Company are tax deductible by the Company pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Incentive Plan is administered by the Executive Compensation Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board.
The Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Companys Annual Meeting was held on May 9, 2012. At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders voted on the following six proposals and cast their votes as set forth below.
Proposal 1
The ten director nominees named in the Companys proxy statement were elected, each for a term expiring at the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders or until their successors are duly elected and qualified, based upon the following votes:
Proposal 2
The proposal to ratify the selection of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for 2012 was approved based upon the following votes:
Proposal 3
The proposal to approve the AutoNation, Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan was approved based upon the following votes:
Proposal 4
The stockholder proposal regarding an independent board chairman was not approved based upon the following votes:
Proposal 5
The stockholder proposal regarding cumulative voting was not approved based upon the following votes:
Proposal 6
The stockholder proposal regarding political contributions was not approved based upon the following votes:
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


