FILE:AN/AN-8K-20121214165715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date Of Report (Date Of Earliest Event Reported): December 12, 2012
 
 
AutoNation, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
200 SW 1st Ave
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (954) 769-6000
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
As previously announced on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on January 29, 2009 (the January 2009 8-K) by AutoNation, Inc. (the Company), the Board of Directors of the Company approved a letter agreement with Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (Toyota, and such agreement, as extended and amended, the Toyota Agreement) in order to, among other things, eliminate any potential adverse consequences under Toyota's framework agreement with the Company in the event that ESL Investments, Inc. and certain investment affiliates of ESL Investments, Inc. (together, ESL) acquired more than fifty percent (50%) of the Company's common stock. The Toyota Agreement also contains governance-related and other provisions as described in the January 2009 8-K. Based on a Schedule 13D/A filed by ESL with the SEC on November 28, 2012, ESL beneficially owns approximately forty-four percent (44%) of the Company's common stock.
Under the Toyota Agreement, Toyota's consent (the Consent) to ESL acquiring more than fifty percent (50%) of the Company's common stock would have terminated on December 31, 2012, solely with respect to ESL purchases of the Company's common stock after such date, unless it was extended by Toyota.
At ESL's request, Toyota has granted a one-year extension of its Consent under the Toyota Agreement (such extension, the "Fourth Extension Agreement"), and the Company signed an acknowledgment to the Fourth Extension Agreement, which is dated December 12, 2012. Toyota's Consent under the Toyota Agreement will now terminate on December 31, 2013 (unless it is terminated earlier as provided in the Toyota Agreement) with respect to purchases of the Company's common stock by ESL after such date, provided that ESL may continue to seek successive annual one-year extensions of Toyota's Consent and Toyota may not unreasonably withhold or delay its consent thereto, except that if ESL has owned fifty percent (50%) or less of the Company's outstanding common stock for two years preceding the date that ESL seeks an extension, then Toyota may withhold such consent in its sole discretion.
The foregoing summaries of the Toyota Agreement and the Fourth Extension Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to such agreements. The Toyota Agreement, together with all amendments thereto, including the Fourth Extension Agreement, are filed as exhibits hereto, and each is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

December 12, 2012
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
19001 South Western Avenue
Torrance, California 90509
Dear Sir or Madam:
Reference is made to that certain letter agreement dated as of January 28, 2009, as amended to date (the "
Consent Agreement
"), by and among Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. ("
Toyota
"), AutoNation, Inc. ("
AutoNation
"), ESL Investments, Inc. and its investment affiliates set forth on
Exhibit A
to the Consent Agreement, and such other investment affiliates of ESL Investments, Inc. and individuals that have been added as parties to the Consent Agreement pursuant to paragraph 7 of the Consent Agreement. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this letter agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Consent Agreement.
Each of the parties hereto hereby: (i) agrees that the "Termination Date" of the Consent Agreement as set forth in paragraph 5 thereto, which previously read "December 31, 2012," shall be amended to read "December 31, 2013," and (ii) reaffirms the terms of the Consent Agreement, as further extended by this letter agreement, and agrees that the Consent Agreement, as amended hereby, shall remain in full force and effect until terminated in accordance with its terms. ESL Investments, Inc. represents that (a) all of its affiliates whose sole business is to invest in securities and related instruments
and
that Own (as such term is defined in the Framework Agreement) Common Stock are signatories to this letter agreement and (b) William Crowley is no longer a director, officer or principal of ESL Investments, Inc. or any such affiliate. Based on the foregoing representations, each of the parties hereto acknowledges that the signatories to this letter agreement are an accurate and complete list of the parties to the Consent Agreement as of the date hereof.
This letter agreement (a) may not be amended, waived or modified except by an instrument in writing signed by Toyota, AutoNation and ESL Investments, Inc. and (b) may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but which when taken together shall constitute one and the same letter agreement.
Please acknowledge your agreement to the foregoing by signing and returning to the undersigned as soon as possible a counterpart of this letter.
* * *
Very truly yours,
ESL INVESTMENTS, INC.
Name: Edward S. Lampert
Title: Chief Executive Officer
ESL PARTNERS, L.P.
Name: Edward S. Lampert
Title: Chief Executive Officer
ESL INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERS, L.P.
Name: Edward S. Lampert
Title: Chief Executive Officer
ESL INVESTORS, L.L.C.
Name: Edward S. Lampert
Title: Chief Executive Officer
CBL PARTNERS, L.P.
Name: Edward S. Lampert
Title: Chief Executive Officer
RBS PARTNERS, L.P.
Name: Edward S. Lampert
Title: Chief Executive Officer
RBS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, L.L.C.
Name: Edward S. Lampert
Title: Chief Executive Officer
SPE II PARTNERS, LP
Name: Edward S. Lampert
Title: Chief Executive Officer
SPE MASTER II, LP
Name: Edward S. Lampert
Title: Chief Executive Officer
EDWARD S. LAMPERT
/s/ Edward S. Lampert
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED TO
AS OF THE DATE FIRST WRITTEN ABOVE:
TOYOTA MOTOR SALES, U.S.A., INC.
/s/ Randy Pflughaupt
By: Randy Pflughaupt    
Its: Group Vice President, Sales Administration
AUTONATION, INC.
/s/ Michael E. Maroone
Michael E. Maroone, President


