FILE:CA/CA-8K-20041020163822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition; Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On October 20, 2004, Computer Associates International, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Shannon Lapierre 631-342-3839 Shannon.lapierre@ca.com
Press Contact:
Maureen May 631-342-6193 Maureen.may@ca.com
Investor Contact:
ISLANDIA, N.Y., October 20, 2004  Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE: CA), the world's largest management software company, today reported financial results for its fiscal year 2005 second quarter ended September 30, 2004, that exceeded previous guidance for revenue and operating earnings. In addition, the company provided revenue and earnings per share guidance for the third quarter and increased its operating earnings guidance for the full fiscal year 2005.
"CA's made significant progress in the second quarter," said CA's Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Cron. "We resolved the government investigations and initiated an aggressive restructuring plan. We continued to drive our business and revenue growth strategies and outperformed in what continues to be a challenging technology environment. This is a demonstration of the strength and resiliency of CA's business, and recognizes the promise of our go-forward growth strategy."
Stated CA Chief Operating Officer Jeff Clarke, "Business was solid across the geographies and product lines. I'm particularly pleased with the performance of
 
our channel business, one of our strategic growth opportunities, which grew by 20 percent. With our restructuring plan well underway, we are committed to continued expense controls, rigorous analysis to maximize our investments and expanding our margins. Clearly, we are in an excellent position to focus on our future and deliver value to our customers and shareholders."
Financial Overview: Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2005
Total revenue for the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 was $855 million, a 6 percent increase over the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, and $5 million greater than the high end of the range of the Company's previous preliminary guidance.
On a constant currency basis, total revenue for the second quarter increased approximately 3 percent compared to the similar period last year.
Revenue from CA's Technology Services unit was $59 million for the quarter, up approximately 7 percent when compared to the similar quarter last year, as a result of better execution in meeting customer needs.
Bookings, or new deferred subscription revenue for the second quarter increased by 70 percent to $690 million, including $41 million of indirect bookings. CA's total deferred subscription revenue balance as of September 30, 2004, was approximately $4.4 billion.
The Company reported a GAAP loss from continuing operations for the second quarter of $94 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, compared to a GAAP loss of $90 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, reported in the comparable period last year. The GAAP loss reflected a number of one-time items, including a $218 million, or $0.24 per diluted share, after-tax charge related to the previously announced establishment of a Restitution Fund to resolve the government investigations, a $7 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, non-cash gain related to the fiscal 2004 shareholder litigation settlement; a $28 million, or $0.03 per diluted share after-
 
tax charge related to the Company's restructuring plan; and a one-time tax benefit of approximately $26 million, or $0.04 per diluted share.
On a fully diluted operating basis, excluding acquisition amortization, the fiscal 2004 shareholder litigation settlement gain, the establishment of the Restitution Fund, and the Company's restructuring plan, CA earned $0.22 per share in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, compared with $0.14 per share in the second quarter of fiscal year 2004. Excluding the $0.04 per diluted share one-time tax benefit this quarter, CA earned $0.18 per share in the second quarter compared to the Company's previous guidance of $0.15 to $0.17 per share.
Operating earnings per share is a non-GAAP financial measure, as noted in the discussion of non-GAAP results below. A reconciliation of GAAP income from continuing operations to non-GAAP operating income is included in the tables following this press release.
Capital Structure
CA generated approximately $152 million in cash from continuing operations in the second quarter, compared to the $184 million reported in the similar period last year.
The balance of cash and marketable securities at September 30, 2004, was approximately $2.25 billion, up $82 million from June 30, 2004. With $2.3 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net debt position of $48 million.
"CA remains on track to deliver modest cash flow growth this year," said Clarke.
Developments During the Quarter
During the quarter, CA made a number of important advances, including:
 
"In an IT marketplace in which purchasers continue to demand a measured return on every dollar invested, CA's Enterprise Infrastructure Management strategy is a real competitive advantage," Cron continued. "We are delivering on that strategy by developing and acquiring products that strengthen our product portfolio and meet the needs of our customers. We're expanding our customer base to reach the growing small- to medium-sized enterprise market and we're moving in to new geographies with outstanding growth potential. We have a management team focused on growing the business and leading the industry's most talented employees to new levels of success."
Outlook for the Remainder of Fiscal Year 2005
 
The following updated guidance is based on current expectations and represents "forward looking statements" (as defined below):
For the third quarter ending December 31, 2004:
For the full fiscal year 2005 ending March 31, 2005:
Clarke said, "Our financial discipline and restructuring plan will allow us to focus on our strategic initiatives to drive top-line growth."
Second Quarter Webcast
The Company will host a webcast at 5 p.m. EDT today to discuss its second quarter fiscal year 2005 results. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at http://ca.com/invest or listen to the call at 1 (706) 679-5227.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release includes financial measures for net income and related per share amounts that exclude certain charges and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
 
(GAAP). Non-GAAP "operating" net income and earnings per share exclude non-cash amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles, the government investigation and restructuring charges, the class-action and derivative litigation settlement charge and the applicable tax effects of these items. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding non-cash acquisition-related charges, the government investigation and restructuring charges and the litigation settlement charge, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results, to competitors' operating results, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as provided with the financial statements attached to this press release.
About CA
Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE:CA), the world's largest management software company, delivers software and services across operations, security, storage and life cycle management to optimize the performance, reliability and efficiency of enterprise IT environments. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and operates in more than 100 countries. For more information, please visit http://ca.com.
 
Certain statements in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements." Actual results could differ materially from those projected or forecast in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following: the risks associated with Computer Associates' deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York, including that Computer Associates could be charged with criminal offenses if Computer Associates violates the agreement; civil litigation arising out of the matters that are the subject of the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") investigations, including shareholder and derivative litigation; Computer Associates is subject to intense competition; risks associated with the recent loss and ongoing replacement of key personnel; our products must remain compatible with, and our product development is dependent upon access to, changing operating environments; we have a significant amount of debt; our credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further; customers are still adapting to our Business Model; the failure to protect our intellectual property rights may weaken our competitive position; we may become dependent upon large transactions; customer decisions are influenced by general economic conditions; third parties may claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses; acts of war and terrorism may adversely affect our business; the volatility of the international marketplace; risks associated with the potential acquisition of Netegrity, including the possibility that the parties may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate Netegrity's operations into those of Computer Associates, such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected, revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected, operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) may be greater than expected following the transaction, the retention of certain key employees at Netegrity, the conditions to the completion of the transaction may not be satisfied, or the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule, and the parties' ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the merger; and the other factors discussed in "Risk Factors" in the Computer Associates' Annual Report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year and Computer Associates' other filings with the SEC, which are available at http://www.sec.gov. Computer Associates assumes no obligation to update the information in this release, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 
 


