FILE:CA/CA-8K-20040722162438.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Item 12. Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On July 22, 2004, Computer Associates International, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. The information contained in the press release shall be considered to be filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., July 22, 2004  Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE: CA), the world's largest management software company, today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, the first quarter of fiscal 2005. In addition, the Company provided revenue and earnings per share guidance for the second quarter and updated guidance for fiscal year 2005.
"We posted solid results this quarter in a challenging industry climate," said CA's interim Chief Executive Officer Ken Cron. "Customers are cautious with their technology spending and they're looking for a return on every dollar they invest in IT. That dynamic presents a real opportunity for CA because we provide software management solutions that enable our customers to leverage their IT assets in the most efficient and effective way."
Added Jeff Clarke, CA's chief operating officer, "Our results exceeded the preliminary revenue, earnings and cash flow guidance we provided earlier this month. We achieved these results through diligent focus on expenses while still investing in our major growth initiatives, including broadening our channel sales business; accelerating product development, especially in security management and enterprise management software; and expanding internationally."
Financial Overview: First Quarter Fiscal 2005
Total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 was $860 million, a 9 percent increase over the similar period last year, and $10 million more than the high end of the range of the Company's preliminary guidance provided on July 8, 2004. On a constant currency basis, total revenue for the first quarter increased approximately 7 percent compared to the similar period last year. Solid results were reported across all geographies, with particular strength noted in North America.
Software fees and other revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 increased $9 million or 13 percent from the comparable prior year quarter. This includes CA's revenue related to its distribution and OEM partners, referred to as the "channel" or indirect sales
 
business, which experienced a 37 percent increase in bookings for the quarter compared to last year. The increase in bookings included a higher mix of maintenance-inclusive arrangements than the prior year. This increase in deferred maintenance bookings of approximately $16 million will be amortized into revenue over time. As announced by the Company in its report of fourth quarter 2004 results, CA began offering more flexible licensing terms to its channel customers and initiated subscription accounting for the majority of its indirect business on July 1, the beginning of its second quarter of fiscal 2005.
Revenue from CA's Technology Services division declined approximately $4 million, or 7 percent for the quarter, when compared to last year, due to a higher percentage of services being bundled with products, which resulted in a larger amount of services revenue being deferred.
First quarter bookings, or new deferred subscription revenue, increased by 37 percent for the quarter to $530 million, bringing the total deferred subscription revenue balance to $4.2 billion.
Income from continuing operations for the first quarter was $53 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, compared to $8 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, reported in the comparable period last year.
On a fully diluted operating basis, excluding acquisition amortization and $5 million related to a fiscal 2004 shareholder litigation settlement, CA earned $0.21 per share in the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, compared with $0.14 per share in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004. Operating earnings per share is a non-GAAP financial measure as noted in the discussion of non-GAAP results below. A reconciliation of GAAP income from continuing operations to non-GAAP operating income is included in the tables following this press release.
Capital Structure
CA generated approximately $273 million in cash from continuing operations in the first quarter, up from the $169 million reported in the similar period last year. Cash from continuing operations benefited from a reduction of $114 million in estimated tax payments resulting from the adoption of a new IRS policy regarding cash receipts and deferred revenue.
The balance of cash and marketable securities at June 30, 2004 was approximately $2.2 billion, up $268 million from March 31, 2004. With $2.3 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net debt position of approximately $100 million.
"CA continues to consistently generate cash flow and remains on track to deliver modest cash flow growth this year," said Clarke.
Developments During the Quarter
During the quarter, the Company made the following announcements:
 
Outlook for Fiscal Year 2005
The following updated guidance is based on current expectations and represents "forward looking statements" (as defined below):
For the second quarter ending September 30, 2004:
For the full fiscal year 2005 ending March 31, 2005:
Clarke said, "We are bringing our full year guidance down modestly. We continue to see market growth in our segments of the software industry and, similar to the first quarter we just delivered, we expect to continue to drive solid revenue and earnings per share growth for fiscal 2005."
First Quarter Webcast
The Company will host a webcast at 4:30 p.m. EDT today to discuss its first quarter fiscal 2005 results. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at http://ca.com/invest or listen to the call at 1 (706) 679-5227.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release includes financial measures for net income and related per share amounts that exclude certain charges and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP
 
"operating" net income and earnings per share exclude non-cash amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles, the class-action and derivative litigation settlement charge and the applicable tax effects of these items. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding non-cash acquisition related charges and the litigation settlement charge, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results, to competitors' operating results, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision- making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as provided with the financial statements attached to this press release.
About CA
Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE:CA), the world's largest management software company, delivers software and services across operations, security, storage, life cycle and service management to optimize the performance, reliability and efficiency of enterprise IT environments. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and operates in more than 100 countries. For more information, please visit http://ca.com.
In addition to the historical information presented, certain statements in this release may constitute "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected or forecast in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following: we could be subject to substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions as a result of the joint inquiry by the SEC and U.S. Attorney's Office; we are subject to intense competition; we have lost senior management employees who may be difficult to replace; our products must remain compatible with, and our product development is dependent upon access to, changing operating environments; we have a significant amount of debt; our credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further; customers are still adapting to our Business Model; the failure to protect our intellectual property rights may weaken our competitive position; we may become dependent upon large transactions; customer decisions are influenced by general economic conditions; third parties may claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses; acts of war and terrorism may adversely affect our business; the volatility of the international marketplace; and other risks described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at http://www.sec.gov. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this press release, except as otherwise required by law.
 
 2004 Computer Associates International, Inc. One Computer Associates Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
The non-GAAP financial information set forth above is not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
The projected Diluted Operating EPS set forth above is not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The projected GAAP and non-GAAP financial information set forth in this reconciliation represent forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties as identified in the Safe Harbor Statement of this press release.


