FILE:CA/CA-8K-20050727170418.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 27, 2005, Computer Associates International, Inc. ("CA") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal of Activities.
     On July 27, 2005, CA issued a press release announcing a restructuring plan. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.05. CA expects the restructuring, which was initially approved on July 22, 2005, to be substantially completed by the end of the calendar year. CA estimates that the restructuring will result in cash expenditures of approximately $50 million, principally related to severance and related benefits. CA expects to record a charge of between $50 million and $75 million, of which more than half will be related to severance costs and the remainder to facilities and procurement rationalization and other items.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., July 27, 2005  Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, today reported financial results for its first quarter fiscal year 2006, ended June 30, 2005.
Financial Overview
 
"We've made progress laying the foundation for growth and are now focusing on accelerating the execution of our business strategy," said CA President and Chief Executive Officer John Swainson. "There have been, and will continue to be a number of significant, but necessary transitions at CA. And while the first quarter met our revenue and earnings goals, we need to do additional work to ensure that the changes yield the results intended and help effectively position CA for the long term.
"Enterprise security continues to be a big focus for the market and our European business is showing signs of improvement, both positive indicators for CA. CIOs are interested in working with CA, and our solutions and vision for helping them simplify and achieve the highest ROI from their IT infrastructure investments."
 
Total bookings for the first quarter decreased 30 percent over the prior year period to $415 million, including $69 million from the Company's indirect business.
Billings for the quarter were $672 million, down 2 percent over the prior year period. Billings for the trailing twelve months, which normalizes quarterly fluctuations and other factors, were $4.3 billion, an increase of 2 percent over the prior trailing twelve months.
"For fiscal year 2006, we modified our sales force compensation plan to drive sales of new products with the end goal of driving billings growth," said CA Chief Operating Officer Jeff Clarke. "At the start of the first quarter, billings were predictably slow due to the sales compensation changes, but they accelerated over the course of the period."
Clarke said that based on this momentum and a review of the Company's second quarter pipeline, the Company is confident it will meet its earlier projections of mid-to-high single digit billings growth for the year. In addition, he said the Company expects to reach 10 percent adjusted, non-GAAP cash flow growth* for the year.
CA reported approximately $93 million in cash flow from operations in the first quarter, compared to the $272 million reported in the similar period last year. On a comparable basis, adjusting for a one-time tax benefit in 2005 of approximately $110 million, cash flow from operations declined by $70 million. The decline is primarily due to fluctuations in working capital, along with timing of interest payments. As previously stated, CA expects GAAP cash flow from operations to decline between 15 percent and 20 percent in fiscal year 2006, primarily due to the aforementioned one-time tax benefit.
Expenses for the quarter totaled $834 million compared with $785 million in the prior year comparable period. The increase in expenses primarily was associated with additional control documentation and testing efforts associated with the Company's compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and legal expenses.
 
The balance of cash and marketable securities at June 30, 2005, was approximately $1.95 billion, down from $3.13 billion at March 31, 2005. With approximately $1.9 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net cash position of approximately $55 million. During the quarter, the Company repaid $825 million in debt, closed on its acquisition of Concord for approximately $350 million, and executed the repurchase of approximately 3.6 million CA shares.
As part of its continuing effort to improve its overall efficiency and productivity and more closely align the Company's investments with its strategic growth opportunities, CA also announced today a restructuring plan that is expected to yield approximately $75 million in annualized savings. The Company expects to take a charge of between $50 million to $75 million in the second quarter. A separate press release with additional details is available at http://ca.com/press.
Quarterly Progress
During Q1, CA:
 
Outlook for Q2 and Fiscal Year 2006
The following updated guidance is based on current expectations and represents "forward looking statements" (as defined below).
 
"Our overall financial position continues to be strong. We are confident in our ability to perform for the year and are committed to a rapid execution of our restructuring plan," said CA Chief Financial Officer Bob Davis. "Based on this, we are increasing our operating earnings per share guidance range for the full fiscal year 2006 from $0.90 to $0.95, to $0.93 to $0.98."
Webcast
The Company will host a webcast at 5 p.m. EDT today to discuss its first quarter results. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, including slides, at or listen to the call at 1 (706) 679-5227.
http://ca.com/invest
 
About CA
Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, delivers software and services across operations, security, storage, life cycle and service management to optimize the performance, reliability and efficiency of enterprise IT environments. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit
http://ca.com.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release includes a financial measure for per share earnings and cash flows that excludes certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP "operating" earnings per share excludes the following items: non-cash amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles, in process research and development charges, the government investigation and class settlement charges, restructuring charges, the tax resulting from the planned repatriation of approximately $500 million of foreign cash and interest on dilutive convertible bonds (the convertible shares rather than the interest, are more dilutive, thus the interest is added back and the shares increased to calculate non-GAAP operating earnings). Non-GAAP taxes are provided based on the estimated effective annual non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flows exclude the FY05 benefit from the IRS revenue procedure ruling issued that year, payments to the restitution fund and restructuring payments. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding certain items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results, and cash flows, to competitors' operating results, and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, which is attached to this press release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the risks and uncertainties associated with the CA deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office of the Eastern District, including that CA could be charged with criminal offenses if it violates this agreement; the risks and uncertainties associated with the agreement that CA entered into with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including that CA may be subject to substantial civil penalties and fines if it violates this agreement; civil litigation arising out of the matters that are the subject of the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission investigations, including shareholder derivative litigation; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies; CA is subject to intense competition and increased competition is expected in the future; certain software is licensed from third parties who require, among other things, the payment of royalties, which could affect the development and enhancement of CA's products; CA's products must remain compatible with, and CA's product development is dependent upon access to, changing operating environments; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights may weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent
 
upon large transactions; customer decisions are influenced by general economic conditions; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; customers are still adapting to CA's Business Model; third parties may claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses; the volatility of the international marketplace; and the other factors described in CA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2005 and its most recent quarterly report filed with the SEC. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
 2005 Computer Associates International, Inc. One Computer Associates Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Refer to the discussion of non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
Refer to the discussion of non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.

 
Exhibit 99.2
ISLANDIA, N.Y., July 27, 2005  Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE:CA) today announced a restructuring plan to continue its efforts to improve its overall efficiency and productivity and to more closely align the Company's investments with its strategic growth opportunities. Once completed, the restructuring is expected to yield approximately $75 million in savings on an annualized basis.
"As CA moves forward and further sharpens its market focus, we continuously evaluate our business to ensure we have the right people, processes and other investment strategies in place to take advantage of market opportunities that provide the strongest returns on invested capital to our shareholders," said CA Chief Operating Officer Jeff Clarke. "The changes we are making will enable CA to drive more efficiency and benefits from its resources, grow the business and generate even stronger bottom-line performance."
As a result of the restructuring plan, which is expected to be substantially implemented by the end of the calendar year, CA will reduce its workforce by approximately 5 percent or 800 positions worldwide, and is also identifying opportunities for facility and procurement rationalization. The workforce reductions are focused on improving productivity and simplifying the product portfolio in research and development; improving overall sales performance; driving efficiencies in back-office operations; and international operations. Workforce-reduction plans will vary by country, based on local legal requirements and in consultation with work councils and employee representatives, as appropriate.
 
CA expects to take a second quarter fiscal year 2006 pretax charge of between $50 million to $75 million related to severance and associated costs.
"We are committed to making the workforce reductions and taking the costs out of the business as quickly as possible to realize savings," said CA Chief Financial Officer Bob Davis.
CA has made a number of improvements over the past year as part of its overall efforts to rebuild and refocus the Company. As part of its overall strategy to focus on systems and security management solutions for the enterprise, CA announced a new business unit structure to improve accountability and productivity and has also evaluated its investments in its overall solutions portfolio. In addition, the Company has launched a new sales compensation program, made several key new management hires and acquired a handful of technology companies.
In September 2004, CA announced a restructuring plan that yielded annual savings of $70 million and resulted in a $28 million charge in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005.
Webcast
CA will discuss the restructuring plan during its first quarter fiscal year 2006 financial results webcast at 5 p.m. EDT today. Investors and the media can access the webcast at
http://ca.com/invest.
About CA
Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, delivers software and services across operations, security, storage, life cycle and service management to optimize the performance, reliability and efficiency of enterprise IT environments. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit
http://ca.com.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the risks and uncertainties associated with the CA deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office of the Eastern District, including that CA could be charged with criminal offenses if it violates this agreement; the risks and uncertainties associated with the agreement that CA entered into with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including that CA may be subject to substantial civil penalties and fines if its violates this agreement; civil litigation arising out of the matters that are the subject of the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission investigations, including shareholder derivative litigation; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies; CA is subject to intense competition and increased competition is expected in the future; certain software is licensed from third parties who require, among other things, the payment of royalties, which could affect the development and enhancement of CA's products; CA's products must remain compatible with, and CA's product development is dependent upon access to, changing operating environments; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights may weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; customer decisions are influenced by general economic conditions; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; customers are still adapting to CA's Business Model; third parties may claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses; the volatility of the international marketplace; and the other factors described in CA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2005 and its most recent quarterly report filed with the SEC. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
 2005 Computer Associates International, Inc. One Computer Associates Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.


