FILE:CA/CA-8K-20051115112951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On November 11, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Christopher B. Lofgren as a member of the Board. Mr. Lofgren will serve as a member of the Strategy Committee of the Board.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 14, 2005, the Company announced that it had appointed Christopher B. Lofgren to the Board of Directors. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
     Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated November 14, 2005.
Table of Contents
`
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., November 14, 2005  CA (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Christopher B. Lofgren, Ph.D. as an independent director of the Company.
Dr. Lofgren's election brings the number of directors on CA's Board to twelve, including eleven non-employee directors and one employee director.
"Christopher adds a tremendous amount of technological depth to CA's Board of Directors," said CA Chairman Lewis Ranieri. "His experience as a chief information officer and chief technology officer brings a strong customer view to our Board. Christopher's technology and management talents will be a great benefit to CA as the Company continues to move forward. In addition, Schneider National has long been viewed as an industry leader in the use of technology."
Dr. Lofgren, 46, is currently president, chief executive officer and a member of the Board of Directors for Schneider National, Inc., the ninth largest freight transportation company in North America, with 2004 revenue of $3.2 billion. Prior to his current role, he held a number of positions with Schneider, including chief operating officer, chief information officer, and chief technology officer. Previously, Dr. Lofgren held engineering and management roles with Symantec Corporation and Motorola, Inc.
Dr. Lofgren holds bachelor of science and master of science degrees in Industrial and Management Engineering from Montana State University and a Ph.D. in Industrial and System Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology. Dr. Lofgren also serves on the Board of Directors for the Green Bay Chapter of the Boys and Girls Club of
 
America, and the Board of Advisors for the School of Industrial and Systems Engineering for the Georgia Institute of Technology.
About CA
CA (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, unifies and simplifies the management of enterprise-wide IT. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit http://www.ca.com.
 2005 Computer Associates International, Inc. One Computer Associates Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.


