FILE:CA/CA-8K-20050830160128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
1. Matters relating to the Computer Associates International, Inc. Change in Control Severance Policy.
On August 24, 2005 at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Computer Associates International, Inc. (the "Company"), stockholders approved the Change in Control Severance Policy, effective October 18, 2004 (the "Policy"). The Policy, which was approved by the Board of Directors on October 18, 2004 subject to ratification by stockholders at the Annual Meeting, covers such senior executives of the Company as the Board of Directors may designate from time to time. Currently, thirteen executives of the Company are covered by the Policy and, currently, an approximate total of 33 senior executives are eligible to participate, subject to the Board of Directors' discretion. As more fully described in Proposal 2 of the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement filed on July 26, 2005 (the "Proxy Statement") (such description being incorporated herein by reference), the Policy provides for certain payments and benefits to participating senior executives in the event that, following a change in control or potential change in control of the Company, a covered executive's employment is terminated either without cause by the Company or for good reason by the executive.
The foregoing description of the Policy does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Policy (including any schedules or exhibits thereto), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit E of the Proxy Statement and incorporated by reference herein.
2. Matters relating to the Computer Associates International, Inc. 2002 Incentive Plan.
On August 24, 2005 at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company, stockholders approved amendments to the Computer Associates International, Inc. 2002 Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"). As more fully described in Proposal 4 of the Proxy Statement (such description being incorporated herein by reference), the amendments to the 2002 Plan, which were adopted by the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company on May 20, 2005 subject to shareholder approval (i) provided that up to 10,000,000 shares of Company's common stock may be issued in connection with certain types of stock-based awards that are not stock options (but did not increase the total number of shares authorized for issuance under the 2002 Plan), (ii) added billings growth and customer satisfaction as performance measures and (iii) modified the performance measure "Net Income" to read "Net Income, as adjusted".
The foregoing description of the amendments to the 2002 Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such 2002 Plan (including any schedules or exhibits thereto), a copy of which, as amended, is filed as Exhibit F to the Proxy Statement and incorporated by reference herein.
Table of Contents
3. Matters relating to the Computer Associates International, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
On August 24, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee approved the Computer Associates International, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, effective September 1, 2005 (the "Plan").
The Plan permits certain members of senior management to elect to defer receipt of certain bonus compensation until a future date. During the deferral period, participants will be able to notionally allocate deferred amounts among various hypothetical investment options (which are generally similar to the investment options available under the Company's 401(k) plan, the Computer Associates Savings Harvest Plan) for the purpose of determining the amount ultimately to be paid to the participant. Participants are able to select specified payment dates but amounts may be paid earlier, e.g., upon death, disability, termination of the Plan following a change in control or six months after termination of employment. The Plan is intended to satisfy new federal income tax requirements applicable to deferred compensation and may be amended from time to time as necessary to assure such compliance and in other respects.
The foregoing description of the Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such agreement (including any schedules or exhibits thereto), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
4. Employment Agreement Matters.
On August 24, 2005, the Company and John A. Swainson entered into an amendment (the "Swainson Amendment") to Mr. Swainson's employment agreement, dated November 22, 2004 (the "Swainson Agreement"). The Swainson Amendment provides that Mr. Swainson is eligible to receive temporary corporate housing and relocation benefits in accordance with the Company's policies until no later than November 22, 2006. The Swainson Agreement was previously described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 24, 2004 and that description is incorporated by reference herein.
The foregoing description of the Swainson Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Amendment (including any schedules and exhibits thereto), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.3 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
5. Matters relating to Compensation of Directors and Committee Members.
On August 24, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee modified the compensation arrangements for the non-employee directors of the Company, effective August 24, 2005.
Table of Contents
The modified arrangement provides for an annual fee to be paid to each non-employee director of the Company of $175,000, compared to $150,000 previously. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Company would receive $25,000 and the non-employee Chairmen of all other committees of the Board of Directors would each receive $10,000.
In connection with these increases, the Board of Directors amended (the "Plan Amendment") the Company's 2003 Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "2003 Plan"). The Plan Amendment allows the Board of Directors to authorize the payment of additional fees to any eligible director that chairs any committee of the Board of Directors rather than limiting such additional fees to directors who chair committees composed entirely of eligible directors. The Plan Amendment does not increase the aggregate number of shares of common stock that may be issued pursuant to the 2003 Plan nor does it materially modify the eligibility requirements for participation in the 2003 Plan. The foregoing description of the Plan Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Plan Amendment (including any schedules and exhibits thereto), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.4 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
By the execution of this Adoption Agreement the Plan Sponsor hereby (complete a. or b.)
Original Effective Date: ____________ [month, day, year]
Pre-409A Grandfathering: Yes No (If yes, complete Appendix B, "Summary of Grandfathered Provisions")
r
r
Plan Name:
Computer Associates International, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Plan Year:
April 1  March 31
Name:              Computer Associates International, Inc.
Address:          One Computer Associates Plaza, Islandia, NY 11749
Phone # :          631-342-6000
EIN:                 13 2847434
Fiscal Yr:          March 31  April 1
Form of Entity:  Corporation
If Plan Sponsor is a Corporation is stock publicly traded?
Yes No
x
r
The following entities have been authorized by the Plan Sponsor to participate in and have adopted the Plan:
 
 
 
For purposes of determining Participant contributions under Article 4 and Employer contributions under Article 5, Compensation shall be defined in the following manner [complete a. or b. and c., if applicable]:
Compensation, for purposes of the April 1, 2005-March 31, 2006 deferral period, shall mean only an employee's Annual Performance Bonus (paid in cash) for fiscal 2006, under the Plan Sponsor's 2002 Incentive Plan, as amended.
Compensation, as defined in Section 3.01 of the Adoption Agreement, includes the following type of bonuses:
 
 
A Participant may elect within the period specified in Section 4.01b of the Adoption Agreement to defer the following amounts of Compensation (select i. and ii. or iii.):
Note: The increment is required to determine the permissible deferral amounts. For example, a minimum of 0% and maximum of 20% with a 5% increment would allow an individual to defer 0%, 5%, 10%, 15% or 20%.
 
A special election period
a. Does            b. Does Not
x
r
apply to each eligible type of performance based compensation referenced in Section 3.02 of the Adoption Agreement.
The special election period, if applicable, will be determined by the Employer.
An employee who is classified or designated as an Eligible Employee during a Plan Year
a. May            b. May Not
x
r
elect to defer Compensation otherwise payable during the remainder of the Plan Year by completing a deferral agreement within the 30 day period beginning on the date he is eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
For each Plan Year, the Employer shall make a Matching Contribution on behalf of each Participant who defers Compensation for the Plan Year and satisfies the requirements of Section 5.01(a)(ii) of the Adoption Agreement equal to (Complete one):
A Participant who defers Compensation for the Plan Year shall receive an allocation of Matching Contributions determined in accordance with Section 5.01(a)(i) provided he satisfies the following requirements (complete the ones that are applicable):
 
Matching Contributions, if made, shall be treated as allocated [select one]:
The Employer shall make a contribution on behalf of each Participant who satisfies the requirements of Section 5.01(b)(ii) equal to [check one]:
 
A Participant shall receive an allocation of other Employer contributions for the Plan Year if he satisfies the following requirements:
Employer contributions, if made, will be allocated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The Plan may not select a common/collective trust fund or a self-directed brokerage option as an investment option.
 
 
 
 
 
September 2005
 
 
 
 
The Computer Associates International, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan is intended to promote the interests of the Plan Sponsor and its shareholders by encouraging certain Eligible Employees to remain in the employ of the Plan Sponsor and its subsidiaries by providing them with a means by which they may request to defer receipt of a portion of their compensation.
 
 
Pronouns used in the Plan are in the masculine gender but include the feminine gender unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Wherever used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.2
     
STEP 1
Employee Information
STEP 2     Annual Performance Bonus Election
For the performance period beginning on April 1, [2005] and ending on March 31, [2006], you may defer up to a maximum of 90% of your cash Annual Performance Bonus, if any, under the Computer Associates International, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The amount of any Annual Performance Bonus you elect to defer (minimum of 1%) will be withheld and credited to an account on the Company's books at the time such Annual Performance Bonus would have otherwise been payable, if applicable.
STEP 3     Investment Election
I hereby elect to direct that the deferred portion of my will be deemed invested in the following manner under the provisions of the Plan. I understand this will apply to the annual performance bonus, if any, that may be paid in connection with the annual performance period beginning on April 1, [2005] and ending on March 31, [2006] . I also understand that at any time I may transfer my account balances from one investment Fund option to another. (Your total Investment Election percentage must equal 100%)
Annual Performance Bonus
 
TOTAL of all Investment Elections   100%     
STEP 4     Distribution Election
In accordance with the terms of the Plan, I understand that I will receive a lump sum distribution of the value of my deferral account as soon as administratively practicable after the earlier of (i) six months following my separation from service, (ii) my death, (iii) my Disability, (iv) a termination of the Plan in connection with a Change in Control (as set forth in the Plan) or (v) a date specified by me below (if elected). I understand that I do not need to elect a specified date, in which case I will receive my distribution upon the earliest of the other events set forth in the preceding sentence.
Specified Date (choose one, desired):
if
April 1, [2011] April 1, [2016] April 1, [2021]                  
     
o
     
     
o
     
     
o
     
STEP 5     Signature
I hereby direct Computer Associates to defer my cash annual performance bonus as set forth above and pursuant to the terms of the Plan and deem it invested initially according to my elections in Step 3.
The foregoing elections are subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference. By executing this election, I acknowledge that (i) I have received and read a copy of the Plan and a summary of its terms (including the risk factors relating to deferring compensation under the Plan), (ii) my rights under the Plan are as a general unsecured creditor of Computer Associates International, Inc., (iii) any compensation that I defer pursuant to this election may be subject to certain employment taxes on a current basis for which I am responsible and (iv) my deferral election is irrevocable and may not be changed, except as otherwise provided under the Plan.
 
Return form to:
Treasury Department, Attn: Robert Liotto (Islandia, NY)
 
The information contained herein has been provided by Computer Associates and is solely the responsibility of Computer Associates.

 
Exhibit 10.3
John A. Swainson 32 Main Street Ridgefield, CT 06877
Re:
Amendment to Employment Agreement
Dear John:
Reference is made to your Employment Agreement, dated November 22, 2004 (the "Employment Agreement") with Computer Associates International, Inc. (the "Company").
As discussed, we wish to amend the Employment Agreement to delete and replace the last sentence of Section 3(e) of the Employment Agreement with the following:
"In addition, you shall receive temporary corporate housing in accordance with the Company's policies and you shall be eligible to receive relocation benefits in accordance with the Company's policies, in each case, until no later than November 22, 2006."
Except as otherwise amended by consent of both parties and as modified by this Amendment, the terms of your Employment Agreement remain unchanged. Please acknowledge your agreement to the terms of this letter by signing below.

 
Exhibit 10.4
     THIS AMENDMENT to the Computer Associates International, Inc. 2003 Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Plan") is hereby made and entered into by the Board of Directors (the "Board").
     WHEREAS, the Plan reserves to the Board the right to amend or modify the Plan from time to time; and
     WHEREAS, the Board desires to amend the Plan to authorize the payment of additional fees to any Eligible Director who chairs any committee of the Board.
     NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is amended as follows:
            1. Section 4.02(a) is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
     . Subject to Paragraph (d) of this Section 4.02, each Eligible Director's annual Director Fees for a Director Service Year shall initially be set at $150,000; provided, however, that the Board may from time to time, at the recommendation of the Committee, change the amount of Director Fees that will be payable in respect of a Director Service Year; and provided further, however, that the Board may from time to time, at the recommendation of the Committee, authorize the payment of additional fees to the chair of any committee of the Board who is an Eligible Director or to an Eligible Director serving as the lead director.
Amount of Director Fees
            2. This Amendment shall be effective as of August 24, 2005.
            3. Except as amended herein, the provisions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.


