FILE:CA/CA-8K-20050526170035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 26, 2005, Computer Associates International, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
Item 4.02 (a) Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review.
In April 2004, as previously announced, the Company restated its financial statements for fiscal years 2000 and 2001 because of errors in its revenue-recognition reflected in those statements. As required under its Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the Department of Justice and its Consent Judgment with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the Company has continued to review its revenue recognition during fiscal years 2000 and 2001, and the Company's independent auditors are conducting an audit of the restated financial statements for those years. As part of this process, the Company has now identified additional transactions that it entered into in fiscal years 1998 through 2001 that appear to have been accounted for improperly. In a few instances, these transactions involved contemporaneous purchases and sales (or investments and licenses) of software products and services with the same or related third parties. These transactions appear not to have been negotiated on an arm's-length basis and to have no valid commercial purpose. In several other cases, the terms of certain license agreements were altered by side agreements that would have prevented the full recognition of related revenue until some future point. Based on its review, the Company has determined that former members of senior management and others, who are no longer employed by the Company, were involved in negotiating and approving these transactions.
As a result, the Company will make further adjustments to its financial statements for fiscal years 2000 and 2001. In addition, while the Company entered into all of these transactions in fiscal years 1998 through 2001, the accounting treatment for these transactions has also affected the financial statements for each of the subsequent fiscal years, including 2005. Eliminating the impact of these prior-period errors on subsequent periods has the effect of increasing revenue and/or reducing expenses in the subsequent periods. While the impact on revenue and net income (loss) in subsequent periods is relatively small, the Company expects to restate its financial statements for fiscal years 2002 through 2004, and to make appropriate adjustments in its financial statements for fiscal year 2005, to eliminate the effects of these prior-period errors. (The financial results for fiscal year 2005 and prior periods described in the press release incorporated by reference in Item 2.02 above do not reflect these adjustments.) While the Company has not completed its review of these matters, it does not expect the impact of the adjustments in fiscal years 2002 through 2004 to increase revenue or net income (or reduce net loss) by more than $10 to $15 million in any particular fiscal year, or to increase revenue by more than $7 to $10 million or net income by more than $5 to $8 million in fiscal year 2005. The Company expects the adjustments in fiscal years 2000 and 2001and prior periods to reduce revenue by approximately $80 to $110 million in the aggregate and to reduce net income by approximately $15 to $25 million in the aggregate. None of these adjustments will have an impact on the Company's current or future cash flows.
The Company intends to issue restated financial statements for fiscal years 2000 and 2001 when the current re-audit of those years is completed later this summer. Because the effects on subsequent fiscal years are relatively small, the Company expects to include all the necessary adjustments for the subsequent fiscal years, including the restated financial statements for fiscal years 2003 and 2004, in its annual report on Form 10-K to be filed with the SEC in the coming weeks, as described below. In the meantime, the Company has concluded (on May 26, 2005) that its previously issued annual and interim financial statements and the related independent auditors' reports thereon for fiscal years ended March 31, 2000 through 2004, including interim periods for fiscal year 2005, should no longer be relied upon, insofar as adjustments for those periods will be made in order to eliminate the effects of errors in prior periods as described above. The audit committee of the Company's board of directors, as well as senior management, has discussed the matters described above with the Company's independent auditors.
The Company initially planned to file its annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2005 on the due date of June 14, 2005. However, the Company's continuing re-audit of its financial statements for fiscal years 2000 and 2001, the effort involved in finalizing the adjustments mentioned above and the ongoing review and assessment of internal control over financial reporting, on which management and the independent accountants are to provide their reports in the annual report for fiscal year 2005 as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have constrained the Company's internal financial and accounting resources to a significant degree. As a result, the Company will likely delay the filing of its annual report by up to 15 calendar days, as permitted
Table of Contents
under SEC Rule 12b-25. In that event, the Company would then expect to file its annual report for fiscal year 2005 on or about June 29, 2005.
The Company has not completed its review of the matters described above and could identify additional transactions requiring adjustments to prior-year financial statements. The Company does not, however, expect the adjustments to its financial statements for fiscal years 2002 through 2005 to differ materially from the estimates set forth above.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., May 26, 2005  Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, today reported financial results for its fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2005, ended March 31, 2005.
Financial Overview
"In this year of transition, CA continued to report solid financial results while investing to build a strong foundation for growth," said CA President and Chief Executive Officer John Swainson. "We are focusing on our strengths in systems and security management to advance our leadership position in the enterprise and deliver value to our shareholders. We are enthusiastic about our future."
"During fiscal year 2005, we invested in our growth strategies to drive sales and build for the future while still delivering on our promise of modest billings and cash flow growth for the year," said CA Chief Operating Officer Jeff Clarke. "We now must execute and leverage the investments we've made for sustainable, long-term
 
growth. Our cost restructuring plan announced this past fall is saving the Company about $70 million on an annualized basis and our procurement savings program is showing strong results. In the meantime, we're delivering immediate value to our shareholders, doubling the annual cash dividend and increasing the share repurchase program."
New deferred subscription revenue for the fourth quarter increased 84 percent over the prior year period to $1.54 billion, including $50 million from the Company's indirect channel sales. For the fiscal year, new deferred subscription revenue increased 59 percent over the prior year period to $3.65 billion, including $144 million from the Company's indirect channel sales. For the year, CA increased bookings from its indirect channel sales by 19 percent over the prior year period.
For the year, security management bookings nearly doubled over the prior year period, while enterprise systems management bookings increased 42 percent.
CA's total deferred subscription revenue balance as of March 31, 2005 was approximately $5.6 billion, compared with $4.3 billion at the end of fiscal year 2004.
Expenses for the quarter totaled $838 million compared with $807 million in the prior year comparable period. The increase in expenses was primarily associated with control documentation and testing efforts associated with the Company's compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For the year, expenses were $3.52 billion compared with $3.33 billion in the prior year. Expenses for fiscal year 2005 included an aggregate of $262 million for one-time costs associated with the DOJ/SEC and shareholder settlements and the September 2004 restructuring, compared to $168 million incurred in fiscal year 2004 associated with the DOJ/SEC and shareholder settlements.
Capital Structure
CA generated approximately $738 million in cash from continuing operations in the fourth quarter, compared to the $588 million reported in the similar period last year, an increase of 26 percent. For the year, CA generated $1.53 billion in cash from continuing operations, compared to the $1.28 billion reported in the similar period last year, a 19 percent increase.
 
CA's return on invested capital, defined as cash flow from operations as a percent of invested capital, was approximately 19 percent in fiscal year 2005.
In March 2005, CA redeemed its outstanding $660 million 5% Convertible Senior Notes and simultaneously exercised its call spread option to buy back approximately 27 million shares at $24.83, for a total of $673 million.
The balance of cash and marketable securities at March 31, 2005, was approximately $3.1 billion, up from $1.9 billion at March 31, 2004. With approximately $2.6 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net cash position of approximately $500 million, which is the highest net cash position in the Company's history.
"CA's financial position is very strong," said CA Chief Financial Officer Bob Davis. "With a strong cash flow and a solid cash position, CA is well-poised to execute on its strategic growth initiatives."
Recent Progress
Since December 31, 2004, CA has:
 
Adoption of SFAS 123(R)
Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, CA will adopt "Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 123(R)  Share-based Payment". In accordance with SFAS 123(R) and in order to provide a consistent year-to-year comparison of financial results, the Company will use the modified, retrospective basis, which adjusts the prior period financial results to include the impact of share-based compensation expense.
Outlook for Q1 and Fiscal Year 2006
The following updated guidance is based on current expectations and represents "forward-looking statements" (as defined below), and also includes the expected effect of SFAS 123(R) in each of the periods presented:
 
"Our FY06 guidance is consistent with the mid-point of current Wall Street earnings expectations after taking into account the impact of SFAS 123(R)," said CFO Davis. "Our first quarter is tracking to plan and we're pleased with our results."
Sarbanes-Oxley Act Update
CA continues to evaluate and test its internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and will report its conclusions in its annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2005. CA is likely to defer the filing of the Form 10-K by up to 15 days, as permitted under SEC Rule 12b-25.
Webcast
The Company will host a Webcast at 5 p.m. EDT today to discuss its fourth-quarter and full-year 2005 results. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at or listen to the call at 1 (706) 679-5227.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA
Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, delivers software and services across operations, security, storage, life cycle and service management to optimize the performance, reliability and efficiency of enterprise IT environments. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This press release includes a financial measure for per share earnings that excludes certain charges and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP "operating" earnings per share excludes the following items: non-cash amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles, the government investigation and class settlement charges, restructuring charges, the tax resulting from the planned repatriation of approximately $500 million of foreign cash, interest on dilutive convertible bonds and the applicable tax effects of these items. This non-GAAP financial measure may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these charges, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results, to competitors' operating results, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, which is attached to this press release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the CA deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office of the Eastern District, including that CA could be charged with criminal offenses if it violates this agreement; the agreement that CA entered into with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including that CA may be subject to substantial civil penalties and fines if it violates this agreement; civil litigation arising out of the matters that are the subject of the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission investigations, including shareholder derivative litigation; CA is subject to intense competition and increased competition is expected in the future; risks associated with the recent loss and ongoing replacement of key personnel; CA's products must remain compatible with, and CA's product development is dependent upon access to, changing operating environments; CA has a significant amount of debt; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further; customers are still adapting to CA's Business Model; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights may weaken its competitive position; certain software is licensed from third parties who require, among other things, the payment of royalties, which could affect the development and enhancement of CA's products; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; customer decisions are influenced by general economic conditions; third parties may claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses; acts of war and terrorism may adversely affect CA's business; the volatility of the international marketplace; and the other factors described in CA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2004 and its most recent quarterly report filed with the SEC. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
 2005 Computer Associates International, Inc. One Computer Associates Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 Does not reflect the benefit the Company expects to receive in FY06 associated with an adjustment to the taxes accrued at March 31, 2005 in connection with the repatriation of approximately $500 million under the Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
(1)


