FILE:CA/CA-8K-20051025165324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 25, 2005, Computer Associates International, Inc. ("CA") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On October 25, 2005, CA issued a press release announcing an increase in its share repurchase program. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., October 25, 2005  Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, today reported strong financial results for its second quarter fiscal year 2006, ended September 30, 2005.
Financial Overview
 
"We are very pleased with our results for the second quarter," said CA President and Chief Executive Officer John Swainson. "We clearly sharpened our execution as we implemented the changes necessary for growth. It continues to be a highly competitive IT environment where customers are demanding measurable ROI for their spending, and as a result, CA's solutions and our commitment to helping simplify, unify and secure IT environments are being well received.
"We've also made good progress in transforming CA during the first half of the fiscal year. We have aligned the business to our growth opportunities, put programs in place to encourage our sales force to become better partners to customers and made a number of key acquisitions to strengthen our product portfolio. Together, these and our other transformation initiatives continue to drive our goals of achieving sustainable growth, enhancing customer relationships and increasing shareholder value," added Swainson.
CA reported $299 million in cash flow from operations in the second quarter, compared to $152 million reported in the similar period last year. On a comparable basis, adjusting for the second of three $75 million in payments to the Restitution Fund and $4 million in restructuring payments and other charges, adjusted cash flow from operations would have been $378 million.
For the trailing twelve months, cash flow from operations was $1.50 billion, up from $1.35 billion in the previous trailing twelve months. Adjusted cash flow from operations for the trailing twelve months was up 19 percent over the prior year period to $1.48 billion, which is adjusted for $150 million in payments to the Restitution Fund, $29 million in restructuring and other payments, and excludes a $191 million tax benefit. On a comparable basis in the prior year, adjusted cash flow from operations for the trailing twelve months was $1.24 billion and is adjusted for a $109 million tax benefit.
Billings for the quarter were $975 million, up 14 percent over the prior year period, and 8 percent organically. Billings for the trailing twelve months, which normalize quarterly fluctuations and other factors, were $4.46 billion, an increase of 3 percent over the prior trailing twelve months, with growth driven by recent acquisitions.
 
"We entered the quarter with a strong pipeline, executed on our business plan, improved working capital management and held our costs in line," said CA Chief Operating Officer Jeff Clarke. "We generated billings growth across all geographies and delivered results."
Total bookings for the second quarter, which includes $73 million from the Company's indirect business, decreased 11 percent over the prior year period to $665 million. This decline was primarily due to an expected decrease in early contract renewals, as the Company has focused on driving new contract value.
Expenses for the quarter totaled $902 million compared with $1.05 billion in the prior year comparable period. Last year's expenses included charges related to the Restitution Fund for shareholders.
The balance of cash and marketable securities at September 30, 2005, was $1.64 billion, down from $1.95 billion at June 30, 2005. With $1.81 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net debt position of $171 million. During the quarter, the Company closed on its acquisition of Niku Corporation, repurchased approximately $176 million of CA shares and made a $75 million payment to the Restitution Fund.
Recent Progress
Since reporting first quarter results, CA:
 
Outlook for Q3 and Fiscal Year 2006
The following updated guidance is based on current expectations and represents "forward looking statements" (as defined below).
FOOTNOTES
 
"With the first half of the fiscal year completed, we are raising the floor on operating earnings and refining the guidance ranges previously provided to account for foreign currency exchange and increased investments in the business, including marketing initiatives and acquisitions," said CA Chief Financial Officer Bob Davis. "We are comfortable with our performance and execution in the first half of the fiscal year, and are confident in our ability to achieve the full-year goals we've set in place."
In addition, Davis said the Company continues to expect to meet its projections of mid-to-high single digit billings growth for the year and 10 percent adjusted, non-GAAP cash flow growth for the year. (1)
Webcast
The Company will host a Webcast at 5 p.m. EDT today to discuss its second quarter results. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, including slides, at or listen to the call at 1 (706) 679-5227.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA
Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, delivers software and services across operations, security, storage and life cycle management to optimize the performance, reliability and efficiency of enterprise IT environments. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in
 
Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
FOOTNOTES
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release includes financial measures for per share earnings and cash flows that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP "operating" earnings per share excludes the following items: non-cash amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles, in process research and development charges, the government investigation and class settlement charges, restructuring charges, the tax resulting from the planned repatriation of approximately $500 million of foreign cash and interest on dilutive convertible bonds (the convertible shares rather than the interest, are more dilutive, thus the interest is added back and the shares increased to calculate non-GAAP operating earnings). Non-GAAP taxes are provided based on the estimated effective annual Non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes the following items: investigation and class settlement payments, restructuring payments, and the impact of non-recurring tax payments or tax benefits. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, which is attached to this press release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the risks and uncertainties associated with the CA deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office of the Eastern District, including that CA could be subject to criminal prosecution or civil penalties if it violates this agreement; the risks and uncertainties associated with the agreement that CA entered into with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including that CA
 
may be subject to criminal prosecution or substantial civil penalties and fines if it violates this agreement; civil litigation arising out of the matters that are the subject of the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission investigations, including shareholder derivative litigation; changes to the compensation plan of CA's sales organization may encourage behavior not anticipated or intended as it is implemented; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies and products into its existing businesses; CA is subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing and increased competition is expected in the future; certain software that CA uses in daily operations is licensed from third parties and thus may not be available to CA in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production; if CA's products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, CA could lose customers and the demand for CA's products and services could decrease; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further which would require CA to pay additional interest under its credit agreement and could adversely affect CA's ability to borrow; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights would weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; general economic conditions may lead CA's customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; third parties could claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses; and the other factors described in CA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2005, and any amendment thereto, and in its most recent quarterly report filed with the SEC. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
 2005 Computer Associates International, Inc. One Computer Associates Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Refer to the discussion of non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
Refer to the discussion of non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
Refer to the discussion of non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.

 
Exhibit 99.2
ISLANDIA, N.Y., October 25, 2005  Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE: CA) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of an additional $200 million in Company shares during fiscal year 2006, for an annual total of up to $600 million. In April 2005, the Company announced its Board had authorized the repurchase of up to $400 million in Company shares for FY06, and the doubling of its annual cash dividend to $0.16 per share.
"The additional stock repurchase authorization reflects our continued confidence in the Company's market opportunity and long-term strategy," said CA President and CEO John Swainson. "CA's stock repurchase program is just one of the efforts underway aimed at enhancing shareholder value and we expect it will provide a meaningful benefit to our long-term shareholders."
Fiscal year 2006 to date, CA has repurchased approximately $300 million in Company stock.
About CA
Computer Associates International, Inc. (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, delivers software and services across operations, security, storage, life cycle and service management to optimize the performance, reliability and efficiency of enterprise IT environments. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit
http://ca.com.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the risks and uncertainties associated with the CA deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office of the Eastern District, including that CA could be subject to criminal prosecution or civil penalties if it violates this agreement; the risks and uncertainties associated with the agreement that CA entered into with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including that CA may be subject to criminal prosecution or substantial civil penalties and fines if it violates this agreement; civil litigation arising out of the matters that are the subject of the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission investigations, including shareholder derivative litigation; changes to the compensation plan of CA's sales organization may encourage behavior not anticipated or intended as it is implemented; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies and products into its existing businesses; CA is subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing and increased competition is
 
..
expected in the future; certain software that CA uses in daily operations is licensed from third parties and thus may not be available to CA in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production; if CA's products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, CA could lose customers and the demand for CA's products and services could decrease; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further which would require CA to pay additional interest under its credit agreement and could adversely affect CA's ability to borrow; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights would weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; general economic conditions may lead CA's customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; third parties could claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses; and the other factors described in CA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2005, and any amendment thereto, and in its most recent quarterly report filed with the SEC. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
 2005 Computer Associates International, Inc. One Computer Associates Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.


