FILE:CA/CA-8K-20060802164236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry of a Material Definitive Agreement.
1.
Employment Agreement Matters
     Effective as of July 31, 2006, the Company entered into a new employment agreement (the "Handal Agreement") with Kenneth V. Handal, whereby he will continue in his roles as an executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. The Handal Agreement covers Mr. Handal's employment for the one-year period beginning on July 31, 2006.
     Mr. Handal's annual base salary is $500,000 (payable in cash). With respect to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007, Mr. Handal is also eligible to receive a target annual cash bonus of $600,000 subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's Annual Performance Bonus program. He is also eligible for a target long-term bonus of $2,000,000 for the performance period commencing on April 1, 2006, subject to the terms and conditions of the Long-Term Performance Bonus program.
     Mr. Handal will continue to be eligible to participate in all pension, welfare and benefit plans made available to other senior employees of the Company. Additionally, for as long as Mr. Handal resides in New York City, he will be provided with a stipend of not less than $5,000 per month for transportation to and from the Company's offices from his residence in the metropolitan New York area.
     If Mr. Handal resigns for "good reason" or is terminated by the Company without "cause", other than on account of death or "disability" (all as defined in the Handal Agreement), subject to his execution and delivery of a valid and effective release and waiver, the Company will pay him a lump sum cash amount equal to his annual base salary.
     The foregoing description of the Handal Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Agreement (including any schedules and exhibits hereto), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
2.
Employment Agreement Matters
     Please see description under Item 5.02 below.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On July 27, 2006, the Board of Directors appointed Nancy Cooper executive vice president and chief financial officer of the Company, effective on her first day of employment, on or around August 15, 2006. Ms. Cooper, 52 years old, was formerly senior vice president and chief financial officer of IMS Health Incorporated, the world's leading provider of market intelligence to
Table of Contents
the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. Her responsibilities at IMS Health included finance and accounting, treasury, investor relations, human resources and business development. Prior to joining IMS Health, Ms. Cooper was the chief financial officer of Reciprocal, Inc., a leading digital rights management and consulting firm whose clients included McGraw Hill, Sony, Time Warner and Reuters. In addition, Cooper served as the chief financial officer of Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation, an international credit company. Ms. Cooper holds a bachelor of arts degree in economics and political science from Bucknell University and an MBA from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. Ms. Cooper also serves as a member of the board of directors for R.H. Donnelley, Inc.
     Once Ms. Cooper's appointment becomes effective, she will replace Robert Cirabisi as the Company's chief financial officer. Mr. Cirabisi will remain the Company's corporate controller and principal accounting officer.
     In connection with her appointment, on August 1, 2006, the Company entered into an employment agreement (the "Cooper Agreement") with Ms. Cooper. Under the Cooper Agreement, Ms. Cooper is designated as an executive vice president and chief financial officer of the Company, effective on her first day of employment, on or around August 15, 2006. The initial term of employment extends until August 31, 2009, unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Agreement. Beginning on August 31, 2009 and each August 31 thereafter, Ms. Cooper's employment period will automatically extend one year unless either the Company or Ms. Cooper gives at least 60 days' advance written notice of non-extension.
     Under the terms of the Cooper Agreement, Ms. Cooper will receive a $250,000 sign-on bonus, which she is required to immediately repay to the Company if she is terminated for "cause" or resigns without "good reason" (all as defined in the Cooper Agreement) at any time during her first year of employment.
     Ms. Cooper's annual base salary will be $500,000. With respect to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007, Ms. Cooper also will be eligible to receive a target annual cash bonus of $500,000 subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's Annual Performance Bonus program. She is also eligible for a target long-term bonus of $1,500,000 for the performance period commencing on April 1, 2006, subject to the terms and conditions of the Long-Term Performance Bonus program. Additionally, Ms. Cooper was approved as a Schedule A (2.99 times) participant in the Company's Change in Control Severance Policy, effective with the commencement of her employment.
     Ms. Cooper will be granted 50,000 restricted shares of the Company's common stock subject to restrictions on transferability set by the Company pursuant and subject to the Company's 2002 Incentive Plan and the applicable grant agreement. Restrictions on the restricted shares will lapse in three approximately equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the date of the grant. Additionally, to compensate Ms. Cooper for certain pension benefits that she would be forfeiting with her prior employer, $500,000 will be notionally credited to a deferred compensation account maintained by
Table of Contents
the Company for Ms. Cooper's benefit within four months of her date of hire. Ms. Cooper will vest in the deferred compensation account on the first anniversary of her employment.
     Ms. Cooper will be eligible to participate in all pension, welfare and benefit plans made available to other senior employees of the Company. She will also be provided with corporate housing in accordance with Company policy for at least 12 months following the date of employment.
     If Ms. Cooper resigns for "good reason" or is terminated by the Company without "cause", other than on account of death or "disability" (all as defined in the Cooper Agreement), subject to her execution and delivery of a valid and effective release and waiver, the Company will pay her a lump sum cash amount equal to her annual base salary.
     The foregoing description of the Cooper Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Agreement (including any schedules and exhibits hereto), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This Agreement is entered into by and between CA, Inc. (the "Company") and Kenneth V. Handal (the "Employee") as of July 31, 2006 (the "Effective Date").
     . The Company hereby agrees to continue to employ the Employee as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and the Employee hereby accepts such positions and agrees to serve the Company in such capacities during the Employment Period (as defined below). The Employee shall report directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer. The Employee's duties, responsibilities and authority shall be such duties, responsibilities and authority as are consistent with the above job titles and such other duties, responsibilities and authority as the Chief Executive Officer shall from time to time specify. The Employee will (a) serve the Company (and such of its subsidiary companies as the Company may designate) faithfully, diligently and to the best of the Employee's ability under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer, (b) devote his full working time and best efforts, attention and energy to the performance of his duties to the Company and (c) not do anything inconsistent with his duties to the Company.
1. Employment, Duties, Authority and Work Standards
     . The Employee represents that his employment hereunder will not violate any law or duty by which he is bound, and will not conflict with or violate any agreement or instrument to which the Employee is a party or by which he is bound.
2. Laws; Other Agreements
     .
3. Compensation
          (a) In consideration of services that the Employee will render to the Company, the Company agrees to pay the Employee, during the Employment Period, the sum of $500,000 per annum (less applicable withholdings) (the "Base Salary"), payable semi-monthly concurrent with the Company's normal payroll cycle.
          (b) In addition to the Base Salary, during the Employment Period, the Employee shall have an opportunity to earn an annual cash bonus ("Annual Bonus") under the Company's Annual Performance Bonus program in accordance with Section 4.4 of the Company's 2002 Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, or any successor thereto (the "Incentive Plan"); provided that, with respect to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007, the Employee's Annual Performance Bonus target shall equal $600,000, provided that such targeted amount and the other terms and conditions of such Annual Performance Bonus shall be subject to determination and approval of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") in accordance with the terms of the Incentive Plan.
          (c) In addition, the Employee shall also be eligible to receive a targeted Long-Term Performance Bonus of $2,000,000 for the performance period commencing on April 1, 2006 under the Company's Long-Term Performance Bonus program as set forth in Section 4.5 of the Incentive Plan, provided that such targeted amount and the other terms and conditions of such Long-Term Performance Bonus shall be subject to determination and approval of the Compensation Committee in accordance with the terms of the Incentive Plan.
     During the term of the Employee's employment, the Employee shall be eligible to participate in all pension, welfare and benefit plans and perquisites generally made available to other senior employees of the Company. Additionally, for so long as the Employee resides in New York City, the Company shall provide a stipend of not less than $5,000 per month for transportation to and from the Company's offices from the Employee's residence in the metropolitan New York area.
4. Benefits and Perquisites.
          Management will also recommend to the Board that the Employee be included as a participant in the Company's Change in Control Severance Policy (the "CIC Severance Policy"), provided that such participation and any other terms and conditions related to such participation shall be at the discretion of the Board in accordance with the terms of such CIC Severance Policy.
 
     
5. Termination; Termination Payments.
          (a) Unless the Employee's employment shall sooner terminate for any reason pursuant to paragraph 6 of this Agreement, the "Employment Period" shall commence on the Effective Date and shall terminate on the first anniversary of the Effective Date.
          (b) In the event that the Employee's employment is terminated during the Employment Period (i) by the Employee for Good Reason (as defined in Appendix A) or (ii) by the Company without Cause (as defined in Appendix A), other than as a result of the Employee's death or disability (within the meaning of the Company's long-term disability program then in effect), subject to the Employee's execution and delivery of a valid and effective release and waiver in a form satisfactory to the Company, the Company shall pay the Employee a lump sum cash amount equal to one (1) times Employee's Base Salary.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, upon the termination of the Employee's employment for any reason, the rights of the Employee with respect to any shares of restricted stock or options to purchase Common Stock held by the Employee which, as of the Termination Date, have not been forfeited shall be subject to the applicable rules of the plan or agreement under which such restricted stock or options were granted as they exist from time to time. In addition, upon the termination of the Employee's employment for any reason, the Company shall pay to the Employee his Base Salary through the Termination Date, plus any unused vacation time accrued through the Termination Date. Any vested benefits and other amounts that the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any employee benefit plan, policy, practice or program of the Company or any of its affiliates shall be payable in accordance with such employee benefit plan, policy, practice or program as the case may be, provided that the Employee shall not be entitled to receive any other payments or benefits in the nature of severance or termination pay.
          (d) In the event that the Employee resigns other than for Good Reason, is terminated for Cause, dies or becomes disabled (within the meaning of the Company's long-term disability program then in effect) during the Employment Period, no benefits shall be payable to the Employee under paragraph 5(b) of this Agreement, but the terms and conditions of paragraph 5(c) shall remain in effect.
          (e) If the Employee is a participant in the Company's CIC Severance Policy and a "Change in Control" occurs, any payments and benefits provided in the CIC Severance Policy that the Employee is entitled to will reduce (but not below zero) the corresponding payment or benefit provided under this Agreement. It is the intent of this provision to pay or to provide to the Employee the greater of the two payments or benefits but not to duplicate them.
     . Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company and the Employee each acknowledge and agree that the Employee's employment with the Company may be terminated by either the Company upon 30 days' written notice to the Employee (subject to the provisions of paragraph 5 of this Agreement) or by the Employee upon 60 days' written notice to the Company (subject to the provisions of paragraph 5 of this Agreement), at any time and for any reason, with or without cause; provided that this Agreement may be terminated for Cause immediately upon written notice from the Company to the Employee; and provided further that the Company may determine to waive all or part of the Employee's 60 days' notice period at its discretion. In addition, this Agreement shall automatically terminate upon Employee's death or disability (determined in accordance with the Company's practices and policies). Upon termination of the Employee's employment for any reason whatsoever, the Company shall have no further obligations to the Employee other than those set forth in paragraph 5 of this Agreement. The effective date of the Employee's termination of employment shall be referred to herein as the "Termination Date."
6. No Duration of Employment
     .
7. General
          (a) Any notice required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be made either:
               (i) by personal delivery to the Employee or, in the case of the Company, to the Company's principal office ("Principal Office") located at One CA Plaza, Islandia, New York 11749, Attention: Executive Vice President  Human Resources, or
               (ii) in writing and sent by registered mail, postage prepaid, to the Employee's residence, or, in the case of the Company, to the Company's Principal Office.
 
          (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon the Employee and his heirs, executors, assigns, and administrators and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns and any subsidiary or parent of the Company.
          (c) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflict of law principles. Any action relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in the state or federal courts of the State of New York, County of Suffolk.
          (d) This Agreement, the Employment and Confidentiality Agreement executed by the Employee on or about the Effective Date and the other documents referred to herein represent the entire agreement between the Employee and the Company related to the Employee's employment and supersede any and all previous oral or written communications, representations or agreements related thereto. This Agreement may only be modified, in writing, jointly by the Employee and a duly authorized representative of the Company. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
          (e) The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable in the event that any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single paragraph or sentence) are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable in any respect, and the validity and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be impaired and shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. In addition, waiver by any party hereto of any breach or default by the other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be implied from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by either party hereto to assert its or his rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.
.
CAUTION TO EXECUTIVE: This Agreement affects important rights. DO NOT sign it unless you have read it carefully and are satisfied that you understand it completely
 
     For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means any of the following:
          (1) The Employee's continued failure, either due to willful action or as a result of gross neglect, to substantially perform his duties and responsibilities to the Company and its affiliates (the "Group") under this Agreement (other than any such failure resulting from the Employee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness) that, if capable of being cured, has not been cured within thirty (30) days after written notice is delivered to the Employee, which notice specifies in reasonable detail the manner in which the Company believes the Employee has not substantially performed his duties and responsibilities.
          (2) The Employee's engagement in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Group, or that materially harms the reputation or financial position of the Group, unless the conduct in question was undertaken in good faith on an informed basis with due care and with a rational business purpose and based upon the honest belief that such conduct was in the best interest of the Group.
          (3) The Employee's indictment or conviction of, or plea of guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony or any other crime involving dishonesty, fraud or moral turpitude.
          (4) The Employee's being found liable in any SEC or other civil or criminal securities law action or entering any cease and desist order with respect to such action (regardless of whether or not he admits or denies liability).
          (5) The Employee's breach of his fiduciary duties to the Group which may reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Group. However, to the extent the breach is curable, the Company must give the Employee notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure.
          (6) The Employee's (i) obstructing or impeding, (ii) endeavoring to influence, obstruct or impede or (iii) failing to materially cooperate with, any investigation authorized by the Board (an "Investigation"). However, the Employee's failure to waive attorney-client privilege relating to communications with his own attorney in connection with an Investigation shall not constitute "Cause".
          (7) The Employee's withholding, removing, concealing, destroying, altering or by any other means falsifying any material which is requested in connection with an Investigation.
          (8) The Employee's disqualification or bar by any governmental or self-regulatory authority from serving in the capacity contemplated by this Agreement or his loss of any governmental or self-regulatory license that is reasonably necessary for him to perform his responsibilities to the Group under this Agreement, if (a) the disqualification, bar or loss continues for more than 30 days and (b) during that period the Group uses its good faith efforts to cause the disqualification or bar to be lifted or the license replaced. While any disqualification, bar or loss continues during the Employee's employment, he will serve in the capacity contemplated by this Agreement to whatever extent legally permissible and, if his employment is not permissible, he will be placed on leave (which will be paid to the extent legally permissible).
          (9) The Employee's unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, or related materials, or the violation of any of the terms of the Employment and Confidentiality Agreement executed by the Employee or any Company standard confidentiality policies and procedures, which may reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Group and that, if capable of being cured, has not been cured within thirty (30) days after written notice is delivered to the Employee by the Company, which notice specifies in reasonable detail the alleged unauthorized use or disclosure or violation.
          (10) The Employee's violation of the Group's (i) Workplace Violence Policy or (ii) policies on discrimination, unlawful harassment or substance abuse.
     For this definition, no act or omission by the Employee will be "willful" unless it is made by the Employee in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that his act or omission was in the best interests of the Group.
 
     For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean any of the following:
          (1) Any material and adverse change in the Employee's title;
          (2) Any material and adverse reduction in the Employee's authorities or responsibilities other than any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure by the Company that is not in bad faith and is cured promptly on the Employee's giving the Company notice (and for purposes of clarification, a change in the number of direct reports will not constitute a material and adverse reduction in the Employee's authorities or responsibilities);
          (3) Any reduction by the Company in the Employee's Base Salary or target level of Annual Bonus as set forth in Sections 4(a) and (b), respectively, other than any such reduction agreed to by the Employee in writing;
          (4) The Company's material breach of this Agreement;
          provided that, no alleged action, reduction or breach set forth in (1) through (4) above shall be deemed to constitute "Good Reason" unless such action, reduction or breach remains uncured, as the case may be, after the expiration of thirty (30) days following delivery to the Company from the Employee of a written notice, setting forth such course of conduct deemed by the Employee to constitute "Good Reason". The Company's placing the Employee on paid leave for up to 90 consecutive days while it is determining whether there is a basis to terminate the Employee's employment for Cause will not constitute Good Reason.

 
Exhibit 10.2
     This Agreement is entered into by and between CA, Inc. (the "Company") and Nancy Cooper (the "Employee") as of the date that it has been duly executed by both parties, provided that the Employee commences employment under the terms of this Agreement on or around August 15, 2006 as is mutually agreed by the parties (such first date of employment being referred to herein as the "Effective Date").
     . The Company hereby agrees to employ the Employee on the Effective Date as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") and the Employee hereby accepts such positions and agrees to serve the Company in such capacities during the Employment Period (as defined below). The Employee shall report directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer. The Employee's duties, responsibilities and authority shall be such duties, responsibilities and authority as are consistent with the above job titles and such other duties, responsibilities and authority as the Chief Executive Officer shall from time to time specify. The Employee will (a) serve the Company (and such of its subsidiary companies as the Company may designate) faithfully, diligently and to the best of the Employee's ability under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer, (b) devote her full working time and best efforts, attention and energy to the performance of her duties to the Company and (c) not do anything inconsistent with her duties to the Company; provided however, that the Company agrees that the Employee may continue to serve as a director of R.H. Donnelley, Inc., so long as such service does not significantly interfere with the Employee's duties to the Company under this Agreement.
1. Employment, Duties, Authority and Work Standards
     . The Employee represents that her employment hereunder will not violate any law or duty by which she is bound, and will not conflict with or violate any agreement or instrument to which the Employee is a party or by which she is bound.
2. Laws; Other Agreements
     . The Company shall pay the Employee a cash payment equal to $250,000 (the "Sign-On Bonus") in the following manner. The Company shall pay the Sign-On Bonus no later than the first scheduled payroll date after the first 30 days of the Employment Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Employee is terminated for Cause or resigns without Good Reason prior to the first anniversary of the Effective Date, the Employee shall be obligated to immediately repay to the Company the Sign-On Bonus paid to her.
3. Sign-On Bonus
     .
4. Compensation
          (a) In consideration of services that the Employee will render to the Company, the Company agrees to pay the Employee, during the Employment Period, the sum of $500,000 per annum (the "Base Salary"), payable semi-monthly concurrent with the Company's normal payroll cycle.
          (b) In addition to the Base Salary, during the Employment Period, the Employee shall have an opportunity to earn an annual cash bonus ("Annual Bonus") under the Company's Annual Performance Bonus program in accordance with Section 4.4 of the Company's 2002 Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, or any successor thereto (the "Incentive Plan"); provided that, with respect to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007, the Employee's Annual Performance Bonus target shall equal $500,000 and the other terms and conditions of such Annual Performance Bonus shall be subject to determination and approval of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") in accordance with the terms of the Incentive Plan.
          (c) In addition, the Employee shall also be eligible to receive a targeted Long-Term Performance Bonus of $1,500,000 for the performance period that commenced on April 1, 2006 under the Company's Long-Term Performance Bonus program as set forth in Section 4.5 of the Incentive Plan and the other terms and conditions of such Long-Term Performance Bonus shall be subject to determination and approval of the Compensation Committee in accordance with the terms of the Incentive Plan.
          (d) Subject to applicable law, management will recommend that, following the Effective Date, the Employee will be granted an award of 50,000 restricted shares of the Company's Common Stock ("Restricted Stock"), subject to restrictions on transferability as set
 
forth in the Incentive Plan and the Restricted Stock grant agreement provided to the Employee. Such Restricted Stock grant agreement shall provide that the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock shall lapse in three (3) relatively equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the date of grant, provided the Employee remains employed through each such anniversary.
          (e) Within four (4) months following the Effective Date, $500,000 will be notionally credited to a deferred compensation account maintained by the Company for the Employee's benefit. The Employee will vest in the deferred compensation account on the first anniversary of the Effective Date.
          (f) All payments to the Employee shall be subject to applicable tax withholding.
     During the term of the Employee's employment, the Employee shall be eligible to participate in all pension, welfare and benefit plans and perquisites generally made available to other senior employees of the Company. Additionally, the Employee will be provided with corporate housing in accordance with the Company's policy for at least 12 months following the Effective Date (the Company may, in its discretion, continue such corporate housing on an annual basis thereafter).
5. Benefits and Perquisites.
          Management will also recommend to the Board that the Employee be included as a participant in the Company's Change in Control Severance Policy (the "CIC Severance Policy"), provided that such participation and any other terms and conditions related to such participation shall be at the discretion of the Board in accordance with the terms of such CIC Severance Policy.
     
6. Termination; Termination Payments.
          (a) Unless the Employee's employment shall sooner terminate for any reason pursuant to paragraph 7 of this Agreement, the "Employment Period" shall commence on the Effective Date and shall initially terminate on August 31, 2009, except that beginning on August 31, 2009 and each August 31 thereafter, the Employment Period will automatically extend for one year unless either the Employee or the Company gives at least 60 days' advanced written notice of non-extension.
          (b) In the event that the Employee's employment is terminated during the Employment Period (i) by the Employee for Good Reason (as defined in Appendix A) or (ii) by the Company without Cause (as defined in Appendix A), other than as a result of the Employee's death or disability (within the meaning of the Company's long-term disability program then in effect), subject to the Employee's execution and delivery of a valid and effective release and waiver in a form satisfactory to the Company, the Company shall pay the Employee a lump sum cash amount equal to one (1) times the Employee's Base Salary.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, upon the termination of the Employee's employment for any reason, the rights of the Employee with respect to any shares of restricted stock or options to purchase Common Stock held by the Employee which, as of the Termination Date, have not been forfeited shall be subject to the applicable rules of the plan or agreement under which such restricted stock or options were granted as they exist from time to time. In addition, upon the termination of the Employee's employment for any reason, the Company shall pay to the Employee her Base Salary through the Termination Date, plus any unused vacation time accrued through the Termination Date. Any vested benefits and other amounts that the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any employee benefit plan, policy, practice or program of the Company or any of its affiliates shall be payable in accordance with such employee benefit plan, policy, practice or program as the case may be, provided that the Employee shall not be entitled to receive any other payments or benefits in the nature of severance or termination pay.
          (d) In the event that the Employee resigns other than for Good Reason, is terminated for Cause, dies or becomes disabled (within the meaning of the Company's long-term disability program then in effect) during the Employment Period, no benefits shall be payable to the Employee under paragraph 6(b) of this Agreement, but the terms and conditions of paragraph 6(c) shall remain in effect.
          (e) If the Employee is a participant in the Company's CIC Severance Policy and a "Change in Control" occurs, any payments and benefits provided in the CIC Severance Policy that the Employee is entitled to will reduce (but not below zero) the corresponding payment or benefit provided under this Agreement. It is the intent of this provision to pay or to provide to the Employee the greater of the two payments or benefits but not to duplicate them.
 
     . Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company and the Employee each acknowledge and agree that the Employee's employment with the Company may be terminated by either the Company upon 60 days' written notice to the Employee (subject to the provisions of paragraph 6 of this Agreement) or by the Employee upon 60 days' written notice to the Company (subject to the provisions of paragraph 6 of this Agreement), at any time and for any reason, with or without cause; provided that this Agreement may be terminated for Cause immediately upon written notice from the Company to the Employee; and provided further that the Company may determine to waive all or part of the Employee's 60 days' notice period at its discretion. In addition, this Agreement shall automatically terminate upon the Employee's death or disability (determined in accordance with the Company's practices and policies). Upon termination of the Employee's employment for any reason whatsoever, the Company shall have no further obligations to the Employee other than those set forth in paragraph 6 of this Agreement. The effective date of the Employee's termination of employment shall be referred to herein as the "Termination Date."
7. No Duration of Employment
     .
8. General
          (a) Any notice required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be made either:
               (i) by personal delivery to the Employee or, in the case of the Company, to the Company's principal office ("Principal Office") located at One CA Plaza, Islandia, New York 11749, Attention: Executive Vice President  Human Resources, or
               (ii) in writing and sent by registered mail, postage prepaid, to the Employee's residence, or, in the case of the Company, to the Company's Principal Office.
          (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon the Employee and her heirs, executors, assigns, and administrators and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns and any subsidiary or parent of the Company.
          (c) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflict of law principles. Any action relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in the state or federal courts of the State of New York, County of Suffolk.
          (d) This Agreement, the Employment and Confidentiality Agreement executed by the Employee on or about the Effective Date and the other documents referred to herein represent the entire agreement between the Employee and the Company related to the Employee's employment and supersede any and all previous oral or written communications, representations or agreements related thereto. This Agreement may only be modified in writing jointly executed by the Employee and a duly authorized representative of the Company. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. , this Agreement will not be effective until the date it has been executed by both parties.
However
          (e) The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable in the event that any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single paragraph or sentence) are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable in any respect, and the validity and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be impaired and shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. In addition, waiver by any party hereto of any breach or default by the other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be implied from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by either party hereto to assert its or her rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.
          (f) The parties agree that this Agreement is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder ("Section 409A") or an exemption from Section 409A. In the event that after execution of this Agreement either party makes a determination inconsistent with the preceding sentence, it shall promptly notify the other party of the basis for its determination. The parties agree to renegotiate in good faith the terms
 
of this Agreement at no additional cost to the Company, if the Employee determines that this Agreement as structured would have adverse tax consequences to her under applicable law. By way of example and not limitation, if the Employee is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, as amended and that, as a result of such status, any portion of the payment under this Agreement would be subject to additional taxation, the Company will delay paying any portion of such payment until the earliest permissible date on which payments may commence without triggering such additional taxation (with such delay not to exceed six (6) months), with the first such payment to include the amounts that would have been paid earlier but for the above delay.
.
CAUTION TO EXECUTIVE: This Agreement affects important rights. DO NOT sign it unless you have read it carefully and are satisfied that you understand it completely
 
Appendix A
     For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means any of the following:
          (1) The Employee's continued failure, either due to willful action or as a result of gross neglect, to substantially perform her duties and responsibilities to the Company and its affiliates (the "Group") under this Agreement (other than any such failure resulting from the Employee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness) that, if capable of being cured, has not been cured within thirty (30) days after written notice is delivered to the Employee, which notice specifies in reasonable detail the manner in which the Company believes the Employee has not substantially performed her duties and responsibilities.
          (2) The Employee's engagement in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Group, or that materially harms the reputation or financial position of the Group, unless the conduct in question was undertaken in good faith on an informed basis with due care and with a rational business purpose and based upon the honest belief that such conduct was in the best interest of the Group.
          (3) The Employee's indictment or conviction of, or plea of guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony or any other crime involving dishonesty, fraud or moral turpitude.
          (4) The Employee's being found liable in any SEC or other civil or criminal securities law action or entering any cease and desist order with respect to such action (regardless of whether or not she admits or denies liability).
          (5) The Employee's breach of her fiduciary duties to the Group which may reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Group. However, to the extent the breach is curable, the Company must give the Employee notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure.
          (6) The Employee's (i) obstructing or impeding, (ii) endeavoring to influence, obstruct or impede or (iii) failing to materially cooperate with, any investigation authorized by the Board or any governmental or self-regulatory entity (an "Investigation"). However, the Employee's failure to waive attorney-client privilege relating to communications with her own attorney in connection with an Investigation shall not constitute "Cause".
          (7) The Employee's purposely withholding, removing, concealing, destroying, altering or by any other means falsifying any material which is requested in connection with an Investigation.
          (8) The Employee's disqualification or bar by any governmental or self-regulatory authority from serving in the capacity contemplated by this Agreement or her loss of any governmental or self-regulatory license that is reasonably necessary for her to perform her responsibilities to the Group under this Agreement, if (a) the disqualification, bar or loss continues for more than 30 days and (b) during that period the Group uses its good faith efforts to cause the disqualification or bar to be lifted or the license replaced. While any disqualification, bar or loss continues during the Employee's employment, she will serve in the capacity contemplated by this Agreement to whatever extent legally permissible and, if her employment is not permissible, she will be placed on leave (which will be paid to the extent legally permissible).
          (9) The Employee's unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, or related materials, or the violation of any of the terms of the Employment and Confidentiality Agreement executed by the Employee or any Company standard confidentiality policies and procedures, which may reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Group and that, if capable of being cured, has not been cured within thirty (30) days after written notice is delivered to the Employee by the Company, which notice specifies in reasonable detail the alleged unauthorized use or disclosure or violation.
          (10) The Employee's violation of the Group's (i) Workplace Violence Policy or (ii) policies on discrimination, unlawful harassment or substance abuse.
     For this definition, no act or omission by the Employee will be "willful" unless it is made by the Employee in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that her act or omission was in the best interests of the Group.
 
     For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean any of the following:
          (1) Any material and adverse change in the Employee's title;
          (2) Any material and adverse reduction in the Employee's authorities or responsibilities other than any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure by the Company that is not in bad faith and is cured promptly on the Employee's giving the Company notice (and for purposes of clarification, a change in the number of direct reports will not constitute a material and adverse reduction in the Employee's authorities or responsibilities);
          (3) Any reduction by the Company in the Employee's Base Salary or target level of Annual Bonus as set forth in Sections 4(a) and (b), respectively, other than any such reduction agreed to by the Employee in writing;
          (4) The Company's material breach of this Agreement;
          provided that, no alleged action, reduction or breach set forth in (1) through (4) above shall be deemed to constitute "Good Reason" unless such action, reduction or breach remains uncured, as the case may be, after the expiration of thirty (30) days following delivery to the Company from the Employee of a written notice, setting forth such course of conduct deemed by the Employee to constitute "Good Reason". The Company's placing the Employee on paid leave for up to 90 consecutive days while it is determining whether there is a basis to terminate the Employee's employment for Cause will not constitute Good Reason.


