FILE:CA/CA-8K-20060124165623.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 24, 2006, Computer Associates International, Inc. ("CA") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., January 24, 2006  CA (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, today reported financial results for its third quarter fiscal year 2006, ended December 31, 2005.
Financial Overview
 
"In the third quarter, CA continued to make enhancements to the business to drive long-term growth," said CA President and Chief Executive Officer John Swainson. "We have the right strategy in place to transform the business and establish CA as the company customers turn to for end-to-end enterprise IT management solutions that unify and simplify their IT environments."
CA reported total revenues for the quarter of $967 million, an increase of 5 percent over the prior year period, or 8 percent on a constant currency basis. Revenue results reflect an increase in subscription revenue related to the Company's continued transition to its ratable business model and the effect of its recent acquisitions.
CA's income from continuing operations of $56 million for the quarter increased 81 percent from the prior year's third quarter principally as a result of higher revenue and lower interest and taxes.
CA reported $422 million in cash flow from continuing operations in the third quarter, compared to $365 million reported in the similar period last year. On a comparable basis, non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from continuing operations was $433 million (adjusted for $11 million in restructuring payments) versus $460 million reported the prior year (adjusted for $20 million in restructuring payments and a $75 million payment to the Restitution Fund).
For the first nine months ended December 31, cash flow from continuing operations was $814 million, up 3 percent from the $789 million reported in the prior year period. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from continuing operations for the first nine months of the fiscal year was up 17 percent to $904 million (adjusted for $75 million in payments to the Restitution Fund and $15 million in restructuring payments), from $775 million reported in the prior year (adjusted for a $75 million Restitution Fund payment, $20 million for restructuring payments and $109 million in tax benefits).
 
Billings for the third quarter were $1.29 billion, down 1 percent from the prior year period and up 2 percent on a constant currency basis. Organic billings for the quarter decreased approximately 5 percent, or 2 percent on a constant currency basis. Billings for the trailing twelve months, which normalize quarterly fluctuations and other factors, were $4.45 billion, an increase of 1 percent over the prior year comparable twelve month period. Organic billings for the trailing twelve months decreased approximately 2 percent. Currency fluctuations had an immaterial impact on billings for the trailing twelve months compared to the prior year comparable period.
As is normal in our industry, some customers pay the entire contract value in one single installment at the outset rather than being invoiced on an annual basis over the life of the contract. In the third quarter, CA executed two contracts with an outsourcer that provided for single payments. These two contracts had a favorable impact on third quarter billings and cash flows, contributing an incremental $59 million more in the period than if the contracts were invoiced on an annual basis over the term of these contracts.
Based on its strong year-to-date cash flow performance, CA increased its full-year guidance for non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from continuing operations growth over the prior year from 10 percent growth, to an expected growth range of 12 percent to 15 percent. (1)
The Company also reiterated its full-year guidance of billings growth of mid-to-high single digits.
"Despite the inherently variable nature in billings from quarter to quarter, we have an excellent pipeline going forward and we are confident in our ability to deliver strong fourth quarter performance," said CA Chief Operating Officer Jeff Clarke.
Total bookings for the third quarter, which include $82 million from the Company's indirect business, decreased 14 percent over the prior year period to $832 million. This decline was primarily due to an expected decrease in early contract renewals, as the Company has focused on driving new contract value. North American direct bookings for the quarter grew 11 percent; however, this gain was more than offset by a decline in international bookings.
Total expenses for the quarter were $899 million compared with $870 million in the prior year, up 3 percent, primarily due to restructuring charges, acquisitions and new marketing initiatives.
The balance of cash and marketable securities at December 31, 2005, was $1.83 billion, up from $1.64 billion at September 30, 2005. With $1.81 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net cash position of approximately $22 million.
During the quarter, the Company repurchased almost 4 million shares of its stock at an aggregate cost of $107 million. Since the beginning of its fiscal year 2006 through today, CA has repurchased approximately 14 million shares of its stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $400 million. The Company intends to repurchase $600 million of its shares during fiscal year 2006.
 
Recent Progress
Since reporting second quarter results in October, CA:
Outlook for Q4 and Fiscal Year 2006
The following updated financial guidance is based on current expectations and represents "forward looking statements" (as defined below). It also includes the estimated dilutive earnings per share effect from the close of the acquisition of Wily Technology, which is expected to occur during the fourth quarter.
 
"During the third quarter, CA continued to strive for operational excellence through strong expense control and cash optimization," said CA Chief Financial Officer Bob Davis. "We will continue to take the steps necessary to capture even more cost efficiencies while making the investments necessary to grow our business. In addition, we plan to carefully utilize our cash to return value to shareholders while also making strategic acquisitions that further build out our EITM strategy and give us a competitive advantage in the marketplace."
 
Webcast and Additional Information
This press release and the accompanying tables should be read in conjunction with additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package and related slide presentation, as well as a conference call which will be held at 5 p.m. EST today. The conference call will be archived on the site. Individuals can access the information at or listen to the call at 1 (706) 679-5227.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA
CA (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, unifies and simplifies the management of enterprise-wide IT. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
(1) A reconciliation of GAAP cash flow from continuing operations to non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from continuing operations for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 is included in the tables following this press release.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release includes financial measures for per share earnings and cash flows that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP "operating" earnings per share excludes the following items: non-cash amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles, in process research and development charges, the government investigation and class settlement charges, restructuring and other charges, and the tax resulting from the planned repatriation of approximately $500 million of foreign cash and interest on dilutive convertible bonds (the convertible shares rather than the interest, are more dilutive, thus the interest is added back and the shares increased to calculate non-GAAP operating earnings). Non-GAAP taxes are provided based on the estimated effective annual non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes the following items: Restitution Fund payments, restructuring payments, and the impact of certain non-recurring tax payments or tax benefits. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, which are attached to this press release.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the risks and uncertainties associated with the CA deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office of the Eastern District, including that CA could be subject to criminal prosecution or civil penalties if it violates this agreement; the risks and uncertainties associated with the agreement that CA entered into with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including that CA may be subject to criminal prosecution or substantial civil penalties and fines if it violates this agreement; civil litigation arising out of the matters that are the subject of the Department of Justice and the SEC investigations, including shareholder derivative litigation; changes to the compensation plan of CA's sales organization may encourage behavior not anticipated or intended as it is implemented; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies and products into its existing businesses; CA is subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing and increased competition is expected in the future; certain software that CA uses in daily operations is licensed from third parties and thus may not be available to CA in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production; if CA's products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, CA could lose customers and the demand for CA's products and services could decrease; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further which would require CA to pay additional interest under its credit agreement and could adversely affect CA's ability to borrow; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights would weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; general economic conditions may lead CA's customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; third parties could claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses; and the other factors described in CA's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended March 31, 2005, and any amendment thereto, and in its most recent quarterly reports filed with the SEC. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright  2006 CA. All Rights Reserved. One Computer Associates Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
(1) Fiscal year 2005 has been restated to reflect the modified retrospective adoption of SFAS 123(R) and other corrections relating to the recognition of revenue as disclosed in Note 12b of the Company's Form 10-K/A filing for fiscal year ended March 31, 2005.
 
(1) The three and nine month periods ended December 31, 2004 have been restated to reflect the modified retrospective adoption of SFAS 123(R) and other corrections relating to the recognition of revenue as disclosed in Note 12b of the Company's Form 10-K/A filing for fiscal year ended March 31, 2005.
 
Refer to the discussion of non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
Refer to the discussion of non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
Refer to the discussion of non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.


