FILE:CA/CA-8K-20060309171833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Effective as of March 6, 2006, upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of CA, Inc. (the "Company"), the Company entered into an amendment (the "Gnazzo Amendment") to the employment agreement (the "Gnazzo Agreement") of Patrick J. Gnazzo, the Company's Chief Compliance Officer. The Gnazzo Amendment extends the period during which the Company's relocation policy is made available to Mr. Gnazzo until December 31, 2006 or such later time as mutually agreed to by the parties. The Gnazzo Agreement was previously filed as Exhibit 10.52 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated June 29, 2005 and is incorporated by reference herein. The foregoing description of the Gnazzo Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Gnazzo Amendment (including any schedules and exhibits thereto), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
On March 6, 2006, the Compensation Committee also added Michael J. Christenson, the Company's Executive Vice President, Strategy and Business Development, as a "Schedule A" participant in the Company's Change in Control Severance Policy; as such, he would be entitled to a severance payment equal to 2.99 times his salary and bonus, and to certain other benefits, in the event of a termination without "cause" or for "good reason" (as those terms are defined in such Policy, which is described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 22, 2004) following a change in control of the Company.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Effective March 7, 2006, by action of the Board of Directors, the Company amended its By-laws to change the title of the By-laws to reflect the Company's name change from Computer Associates International, Inc. to CA, Inc. The name change, which was previously described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2006 became effective on February 1, 2006. A copy of the restated By-laws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
On March 7, 2006, the Board of Directors approved amendments to the Company's Certificate of Designation of Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A (the "Certificate of Designation") to reflect the Company's name change. The Company filed the amended and restated Certificate of Designation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, effective March 8, 2006. A copy of the amended and restated Certificate of Designation is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
On March 7, 2006, the Board of Directors also approved the restatement of its Certificate of Incorporation to include the amended and restated Certificate of Designation. The Company filed the restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware, effective March 8, 2006. A copy of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 9, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors authorized a $600 million common stock repurchase plan for fiscal year 2007. The repurchase plan will commence on April 1, 2006 and calls for quarterly common stock buybacks of up to $150 million. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 3.1
     The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located at 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, New Castle County, 19808, and the resident agent of the Corporation thereat shall be Corporation Service Company. The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may require from time to time.
     Section 1. . An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors from time to time. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting.
Annual Meeting
     Section 2. . Special meetings of the stockholders, for any proper purpose or purposes, may be called only by the Board of Directors.
Special Meeting
     Section 3. . The place of meeting for any annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders shall be designated by or under the authority of the Board of Directors. If no such designation is made, the place of meeting shall be the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware.
Place of Meeting
     Section 4. . Written or printed notice stating the place, date and time of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered, unless otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, or by these By-laws, not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail, addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, unless the adjournment
Notice of Meeting
 
is for more than 30 days or unless, after adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, in either of which cases notice of the adjourned meeting will be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation) any special meeting of stockholders may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting.
     Section 5. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which record date: (a) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting; (b) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, shall not be more than 10 days from the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors; and (c) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than 60 days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (x) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; (y) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting when no prior action of the Board of Directors is required by law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation in accordance with applicable law, or, if prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action; and (z) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth
Record Date
 
the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation, as provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law.
     Section 6. . The officer or agent having charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall make or cause to be made, at least 10 days before each meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, or any adjournment thereof, arranged in alphabetical order with the address of and the number of shares held by each, which list, shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to such meeting, for a period of at least 10 days prior to such meeting, during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the Corporation. In addition, such list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of such meeting during the whole time of such meeting, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger or to vote at any meeting of stockholders.
Voting Lists
     Section 7. . A majority of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote, present or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders. If less than a majority of the outstanding shares are represented at a meeting, the Chair of the meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. In the election of directors, a plurality of the votes cast shall be sufficient to elect. Unless otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-laws, in all matters other than the election of directors, the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
Quorum; Adjournment; Required Votes
     Section 8. . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy (a) executed in writing by the stockholder or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact; or (b) by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or an agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder; or (c) as otherwise permitted pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law. Such proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation before or at the time of the meeting. No proxy shall be valid after three years from the date of its execution, unless otherwise provided in the proxy.
Proxies
     Section 9. . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, each outstanding share entitled to vote shall be entitled to one vote upon each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of stockholders.
Voting of Shares
 
Shares standing in the name of another corporation may be voted by such officer, agent or proxy as the by-laws of such corporation may prescribe, or, in the absence of such provision, as the board of directors of such corporation may determine. Shares of its own capital stock belonging to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of any corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
     Section 10. .
Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting; Inspectors of Election; Procedures for Counting Consents
     (a) Subject to Section 5 of this Article II, any action required to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders, or any other action which may be taken at a meeting of the stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing setting forth the action so taken shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. The Corporation shall give prompt notice of the taking of corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent to stockholders who have not consented in writing and who, if the action had been taken at a meeting, would have been entitled to notice of the meeting if the record date for such meeting had been the date that written consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders to take the action were delivered to the Corporation in the manner provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law.
     (b) Within three (3) business days after receipt of the earliest dated consent delivered to the Corporation in the manner provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law or the determination by the Board of Directors of the Corporation that the Corporation should seek corporate action by written consent, as the case may be, the Secretary shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. The cost of retaining inspectors of election shall be borne by the Corporation. No action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with this Section 10 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.Consents and revocations shall be delivered to the inspectors upon receipt by the Corporation, the soliciting stockholders or their proxy solicitors or other designated agents. As soon as consents and revocations are received, the inspectors shall review the consents and revocations and shall maintain a count of the number of valid and unrevoked consents. The inspectors shall keep such count confidential and shall not reveal the count to the Corporation, the soliciting stockholder or their representatives or any other entity. As soon as practicable after the earlier of (i) 60 days after the date of the earliest dated consent delivered to the Corporation in the manner provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law or (ii) a
 
written request therefor by the Corporation or the soliciting stockholders (whichever is soliciting consents), notice of which request shall be given to the party opposing the solicitation of consents, if any, which request shall state that the Corporation or soliciting stockholders, as the case may be, have a good faith belief that the requisite number of valid and unrevoked consents to authorize or take the action specified in the consents has been received in accordance with these By-laws, the inspectors shall issue a preliminary report to the Corporation and the soliciting stockholders stating: (i) the number of valid consents; (ii) the number of valid revocations; (iii) the number of valid and unrevoked consents; (iv) the number of invalid consents; (v) the number of invalid revocations; (vi) whether, based on their preliminary count, the requisite number of valid and unrevoked consents has been obtained to authorize or take the action specified in the consents.
     Unless the Corporation and the soliciting stockholders shall agree to a shorter or longer period, the Corporation and the soliciting stockholders shall have 48 hours to review the consents and revocations and to advise the inspectors and the opposing party in writing as to whether they intend to challenge the preliminary report of the inspectors. If no written notice of an intention to challenge the preliminary report is received within 48 hours after the inspectors' issuance of the preliminary report, the inspectors shall issue to the Corporation and the soliciting stockholders their final report containing the inspectors' determination with respect to whether the requisite number of valid and unrevoked consents was obtained to authorize and take the action specified in the consents. If the Corporation or the soliciting stockholders issue written notice of an intention to challenge the inspectors' preliminary report within 48 hours after the issuance of that report, a challenge session shall be scheduled by the inspectors as promptly as practicable. Following completion of the challenge session, the inspectors shall as promptly as practicable issue their final report to the soliciting stockholders and the Corporation, which report shall contain the information included in the preliminary report, plus all changes in the vote totals as a result of the challenge and a certification of whether the requisite number of valid and unrevoked consents was obtained to authorize or take the action specified in the consents. A copy of the final report of the inspectors shall be filed with the proceedings of meetings of stockholders.
     Section 11. .
Nominations of Directors
     (a) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-laws shall be eligible to serve as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 11, who shall be entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11.
     (b) Nominations by stockholders shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) in the case of an annual meeting, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided,
 
however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is changed by more than 30 days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure was made, and (ii) in the case of a special meeting at which directors are to be elected, not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure was made. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (1) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (2) as to the stockholder giving the notice (A) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such stockholder and (B) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are beneficially owned by such stockholder and also that are owned of record by such stockholder; and (3) as to the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made, (A) the name and address of such person and (B) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are beneficially owned by such person. At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by the Board of Directors for election as a director shall furnish the Secretary of the Corporation that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee.
     (c) No person shall be eligible to serve as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11. The Chair of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these By-laws, and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
     Section 12. .
Notice of Stockholder Business
     (a) At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (i) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) by a stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of the notice provided for in this Section 12, who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 12.
     (b) For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a) of this Section 12, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice with respect to an annual meeting must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the meeting is changed by more than 30 days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to
 
be timely must be received no later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure was made. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, and the name and address of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder of record and by the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and (iv) any material interest of such stockholder of record and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made in such business.
     (c) No business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 12; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 12 shall be deemed to affect the right of any stockholder to request the inclusion of a proposal in a proxy statement of the Corporation pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any successor thereto. Only such matters provided for in the Corporation's notice of meeting shall be properly brought before a special meeting of stockholders. The Chair of the meeting shall, if the fact warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these By-laws, and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
     Section 13. . The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt such rules, regulations and procedures for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with any such rules and regulations, the Chair of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to take all such actions as, in the judgment of such Chair, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Chair of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (a) the establishment of an agenda and order of business for the meeting; (b) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (c) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the Chair shall permit; (d) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (e) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless, and to the extent, determined by the Board of Directors or the Chair of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
Conduct of Meetings
 
     Section 1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by its Board of Directors.
General Powers
     Section 2. . The Board of Directors shall consist of three or more members, the number thereof to be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. Directors need not be stockholders. Each director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor shall have been elected and shall have qualified.
Number and Tenure
     Section 3. . An annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held, without other notice, immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may also provide, by resolution, the time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, for the holding of other regular meetings without notice other than such resolution.
Annual and Regular Meetings
     Section 4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the Chairman, the President, or the Secretary upon the written request of any two directors. The persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix any place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the place for holding any special meeting of the Board of Directors called by them.
Special Meetings
     Section 5. . Notice of any special meeting or notice of a change in the time or place of any regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given to each director at his or her business or residence (a) in writing, by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, telegram, facsimile transmission, or electronic mail; or (b) orally, by telephone to the director or his or her representative. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately given when deposited in the U.S. mail so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five days before such meeting. If by telegram, overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately given when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company or the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least 24 hours before such meeting. If by electronic mail or facsimile transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately given when transmitted at least 12 hours before such meeting. If by telephone or hand delivery, such notice shall be deemed adequately given when delivered or given at least 12 hours before such meeting. A director may waive notice of any meeting. The attendance of a director at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where a director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice or any waiver of notice of such meeting. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting.
Notice
 
     Section 6. . A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, but if less than such majority is present at a meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice.
Quorum
     Section 7. . The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all the members of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or writings filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or such committee.
Manner of Acting
     Section 8. . Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from enlargement of the Board of Directors, may be filled by the directors by vote of a majority of the directors then in office though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, or by the plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders. A director elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term of his or her predecessor in office, or in the case of an enlargement of the Board of Directors, until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor shall have been elected and shall have qualified.
Vacancies
     Section 9. . Directors who are not employees of the Corporation may be paid such fees or other compensation for service on the Board of Directors or any Committee of the Board of Directors as may be approved by the Board of Directors. Such directors may also be reimbursed for the expenses they incur in attending or participating in meetings of the Board of Directors or any Committee of the Board.
Compensation
     Section 10. . Members of the Board of Directors, or any Committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board or Committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment, by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 10 shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Telephonic Meetings
     Section 11. .
Committees
     (a) Powers and Authority. The Corporation shall be governed by the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as that statute may be amended from time to time, in respect to the powers and authority of any committee of the Board of Directors.
     (b) Formation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the committee, the member
 
or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it.
     (c) Committee Rules. Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board of Directors may make, alter and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of such rules each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to Article III of these By-laws.
     Section 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, President, one or more Vice Presidents (the number thereof to be determined by the Board of Directors), a Secretary, and a Treasurer, each of whom shall be elected by the Board of Directors. One or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers and such other officers and assistant officers as may be deemed necessary may also be elected from time to time by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except the offices of President and Secretary.
Number
     Section 2. . The officers of the Corporation to be elected by the Board of Directors shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as practicable. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death or until he or she shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner hereinafter provided.
Election and Term of Office
     Section 3. . Any officer or agent elected by the Board of Directors may be removed by the Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.
Removal
     Section 4. . A vacancy in any office, whether caused by death, resignation, removal, disqualification or otherwise, may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term.
Vacancies
     Section 5. . The Board of Directors may appoint a Chairman of the Board. If the Board of Directors
Chairman of the Board and Vice Chairman of the Board
 
appoints a Chairman of the Board, he or she shall perform such duties and possess such powers as are assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors and these By-laws. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and the stockholders at which he or she is present. If the Board of Directors appoints a Vice Chairman of the Board, he or she shall, in the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman of the Board and shall perform such other duties and possess such other powers as may from time to time be vested in him or her by the Board of Directors.
     Section 6. . Except as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation; shall, subject to the direction of the Board, have general charge and supervision of the business of the Corporation; and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board. The President shall, when present and in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board, if one shall be appointed, or the Chief Executive Officer, if other than the President, preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. He or she may sign, with the Secretary or any other proper officer of the Corporation thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors, certificates for shares of the Corporation, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts, or other instruments which the Board has authorized to be executed, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board or by these By-laws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation, or shall be required by law to be otherwise signed or executed; and in general shall perform all duties incident to the office of President and such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board from time to time.
President
     Section 7. . In the absence of the President or in the event of his or her death, inability or refusal to act, the Vice President (or in the event there be more than one Vice President, the Vice Presidents in the order designated at the time of their election, or in the absence of any designation, then in the order of their election) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. Any Vice President may sign, with the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, certificates for shares of the Corporation; and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
The Vice President
     Section 8. . The Secretary shall: (a) keep the minutes of the meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors in one or more books provided for that purpose; (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws or as required by law; (c) be custodian of the corporate records and of the seal of the Corporation and see that the seal of the Corporation is affixed to all documents the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its seal is duly authorized; (d) sign, with the President or a Vice President, certificates for shares of the Corporation, the issuance of which shall have been authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors; and (e) in general perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
The Secretary
 
     Section 9. . The Treasurer shall: (a) have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the Corporation; receive and give receipts for moneys due and payable to the Corporation from any source whatsoever, and deposit or cause to be deposited all such moneys in the name of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of Article V of these By-laws; (b) have general charge of the stock transfer books of the Corporation, unless a transfer agent shall have been appointed; (c) sign, with the President or a Vice President, certificates for shares of the Corporation, the issuance of which shall have been authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors; and (d) in general perform all the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
The Treasurer
     Section 10. . The Assistant Secretaries, when elected by the Board of Directors, may sign, with the President or a Vice President, certificates for shares of the Corporation the issuance of which shall have been authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors. The Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, in general, shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Secretary or the Treasurer, respectively, or by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers
     Section 11. . The salaries of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by or under the authority of the Board of Directors, and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that he or she is also a director of the Corporation.
Salaries
     Section 1. . The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Contract
     Section 2. . No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation and no evidences of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by or under the authority of the Board of Directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Loans
     Section 3. . All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
Checks, Drafts, Etc
 
     Section 4. . All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as may be selected by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
Deposits
     Section 1. . Shares of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe; provided, that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution that some or all of any or all classes or series of stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled, upon request, to a certificate representing such shares. Shares represented by certificates shall be numbered and registered in a share register as they are issued. Share certificates shall exhibit the name of the registered holder and the number and class of shares and the series, if any, represented thereby and the par value of each share or a statement that such shares are without par value, as the case may be. Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificated shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
Certificates
     Section 2. . Every share certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the President or a Vice President, and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and shall be sealed with the Corporation's seal, which may be facsimile, engraved or printed.
Signatures on Certificates
     Section 3. . The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars and may require all certificates for shares to bear the signature or signatures of any of them. Where a certificate is signed (a) by a transfer agent or an assistant or co-transfer agent, or (b) by a registrar or co-registrar, the signature of any officer thereon may be facsimile. Where a certificate is signed by a registrar or co-registrar, the certificate of any transfer agent or co-transfer agent thereon may be by facsimile signature of the authorized signatory of such transfer agent or co-transfer agent. In case any officer or officers of the Corporation who have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures have been used on, any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be such officer or officers, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates have been delivered by the Corporation, such certificate or certificates may, nevertheless, be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile signature or signatures have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Corporation.
Transfer Agents and Registrars; Facsimile Signatures
     Section 4. . In case of the loss or destruction of any certificate of stock or other security of the Corporation, another may be issued in its place
Lost Certificates
 
upon satisfactory proof of such loss or destruction and upon the giving of a satisfactory bond of indemnity to the Corporation and to the transfer agents and registrars, if any, of such stock or other security, in such sum as the Board of Directors may prescribe. The Board of Directors may delegate to any officer or officers of the Corporation the authorization of the issuance of such new certificate or certificates and the approval of the form and amount of such indemnity bond and the surety thereon.
     Section 5. . Upon surrender to the Corporation, or a transfer agent of the Corporation, of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Corporation may issue a new certificate, or, upon request, evidence of the equivalent uncertificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder of uncertificated shares, the Corporation shall cancel such uncertificated shares and issue new equivalent uncertificated shares, or, upon such holder's request, certificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, and record the transaction upon its books.
Transfer of Shares
     Section 6. . The Corporation and its transfer agents shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares as the holder in fact thereof and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claims to, or interest in, such shares on the part of any other person and shall not be liable for any registration or transfer of shares which are registered, or to be registered, in the name of a fiduciary or the nominee of a fiduciary unless made with actual knowledge that a fiduciary, or nominee of a fiduciary, is committing a breach of trust in requesting such registration or transfer, or with knowledge of such facts that its participation therein amounts to bad faith.
Registered Shareholders
     The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of April and end on the last day of March in each year.
     The Board of Directors shall approve a corporate seal which shall be circular in form and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation and the state of incorporation and the words, "Corporate Seal".
 
     Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, these By-laws may be amended or repealed, or new By-laws may be adopted, (1) at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders, by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation, present or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on such action; provided, however, that the notice of such meeting shall have been given as provided in these By-laws, which notice shall mention that the amendment or repeal of these By-laws, or the adoption of new By-laws, is one of the purposes of such meeting; (2) by written consent of the stockholders pursuant to Section 10 of Article II of these By-laws; or (3) by action of the Board of Directors.
     To the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, and whether brought by a third party or by or in the right of the Corporation, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of, or in a similar capacity with respect to, any subsidiary or joint venture of the Corporation or other entity or enterprise, or as a fiduciary, trustee or administrator or in any similar capacity with respect to any employee benefit plan or other plan or program sponsored by the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), liability, loss, judgment, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with such action, suit or proceeding. Excise taxes assessed on any such person with respect to an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to be indemnifiable expenses, and action by any such person with respect to an employee benefit plan which he or she reasonably believes to be in the interests of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation.
     Expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by any such person in defending any such threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding shall be paid on behalf of such person by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit, or proceeding and within 30 days of receipt by the Secretary of the Corporation of (1) an application from such person setting forth the basis for such indemnification, and (2) an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article. A plea of guilty to a felony charge arising out of misconduct committed by such person in his or her capacity (a) as a director or officer of the Corporation, (b) as a director or officer of, or in a similar
 
capacity with respect to, any subsidiary or joint venture of the Corporation or other entity or enterprise referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article, or (c) as a fiduciary, trustee or administrator or in a similar capacity with respect to any employee benefit plan or other plan or program sponsored by the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation shall, for purposes of the mandatory advancement of expenses provided in the preceding sentence, constitute a final disposition of such action or proceeding. The financial ability of any person to make a repayment contemplated by this provision shall not be a prerequisite to the making of an advance.
     Such indemnity and right to advancement of expenses shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of any person so indemnified pursuant to this Article. The right to indemnification and to advancement of expenses under this Article shall be a contract right. Such indemnification and advancement of expenses shall be in addition to any other rights to which those persons seeking indemnification and advancement of expenses may be entitled under any law, agreement, vote of stockholders, or otherwise.
     Any repeal or amendment of this Article by the Board of Directors or stockholders of the Corporation or by changes in applicable law shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be prospective only, and shall not adversely affect any right to indemnification or advancement of expenses of any person existing at the time of such repeal or amendment. In addition to the foregoing, the right to indemnification and advancement of expenses shall be to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law or any other applicable law and all amendments to such laws as hereafter enacted from time to time.

 
EXHIBIT 3.2
     CA, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "Corporation"), in accordance with the provisions of Section 103 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
     1. That by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Corporation dated June 18, 1991, and by a Certificate of Designation filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on June 26, 1991, the Corporation authorized a series of 500,000 shares of Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A, without par value, of the Company (the "Series One Preferred Stock") and established the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other rights of the Series One Preferred Stock and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.
     2. As of the date hereof, no shares of Series One Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares of Series One Preferred Stock have been issued.
     3. That pursuant to the authority conferred on the Board of Directors of the Corporation by its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors adopted the following resolutions at a meeting duly called and held on March 7, 2006:
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Corporation has deemed it advisable that the Certificate of Designation of Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A (the "Certificate of Designation") of the Corporation, be amended to reflect the Corporation's change of name from "Computer Associates International, Inc." to "CA, Inc.", which name change became effective as of February 1, 2006;
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT AND IT HEREBY IS:
     RESOLVED, that, pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation (hereinafter called the Board of Directors or the Board) and in accordance with the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby amends the title of the Certificate of Designation by inserting the Corporation's new corporate name, "CA, Inc."
 
in place of the Corporation's old corporate name, "Computer Associates International, Inc."; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, notwithstanding the foregoing resolution, all other terms of the Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A, without par value (the Preferred Stock) of the Corporation, the designation and number of shares thereof, and the relative rights, preferences and limitations thereof, remain unchanged and are as set forth below:
     Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A
          Section 1. . The shares of such series shall be designated as Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A (the Series One Preferred Stock) and the number of shares constituting the Series One Preferred Stock shall be Five Hundred Thousand (500,000). Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series One Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series One Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
          Section 2. .
Dividends and Distributions
     (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any other stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series One Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, dividends in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent), equal to 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends declared on the Common Stock, par value $.10 per share (the Common Stock), and 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions declared on the Common Stock, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise). Any such dividend on the Preferred Stock shall be payable on the same date as any dividend payable with respect to the Common Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which
 
is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series One Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock).
     (C) The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be the same date as the record date for the determination of shares of Common Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution thereon and shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
          Section 3. . The holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
     (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series One Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1,000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Designation creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
     (C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series One Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
          Section 4. . (A) Whenever semi-annual or quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series One Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter
Certain Restrictions
 
and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series One Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
     (i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series One Preferred Stock;
     (ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series One Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series One Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled; or
     (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series One Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (as to dividends and upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series One Preferred Stock.
     (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under Paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
          Section 5. . Any shares of Series One Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Designation creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
Reacquired Shares
          Section 6. .
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
     (A) Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, prior and in preference to any distribution of any assets of the Corporation to the holders of Common Stock, the amount of $1,000.00 per share for each share of Series One Preferred Stock then held by them. Thereafter, the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock plus an amount equal to any
 
accrued and unpaid dividends. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) If the assets of the Corporation legally available for distribution to the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation are insufficient to pay the full preferential amount set forth in the first sentence of paragraph (A) above, then the entire assets of the Corporation legally available for distribution to the holders of Series One Preferred Stock shall be distributed among such holders in proportion to the shares of Series One Preferred Stock then held by them.
     (C) The foregoing rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up provided to the holders of Series One Preferred Stock shall be subject to the rights of the holders of any other series of Preferred Stock (or any other stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series One Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up.
          Section 7. . In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or other property, then in any such case each share of Series One Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchange. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc
 
          Section 8. . The shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amended Certificate of Designation is executed on behalf of the Corporation on this 8th day of March, 2006.

 
EXHIBIT 3.3
     CA, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
     FIRST: The name of the corporation (hereinafter called the "corporation") is CA, INC.
 
     SECOND: The address, including street, number, city, and county, of the registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400 New Castle County, Wilmington, Delaware 19808, and the name of the registered agent of the corporation in the State of Delaware at such address is United States Corporation Company.
     THIRD: The nature of the business and of the purposes to be conducted and promoted by the corporation, which shall be in addition to the authority of the corporation to conduct any lawful business, to promote any lawful purpose, and to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, is as follows:
     To provide services, facilities, concepts, programs, manuals and equipment of any and all kinds in the fields of electronic data processing and the sales, licensing, franchising and any other disposition of computer hardware, software, peripherals and related supplies, equipment and facilities. To purchase, receive, take by grant, gift, devise, bequest or otherwise, lease, or otherwise acquire, own, hold, improve, employ, use and otherwise deal in and with real or personal property, or any interest therein, wherever situated, and to sell, convey, lease, exchange, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or mortgage or pledge, all or any of its property and assets, or any interest therein, wherever situated.
     To take, lease, purchase or otherwise acquire, and to own, use, hold, sell, convey, exchange, lease, mortgage, work, clear, improve, develop, divide, and otherwise handle, manage, operate, deal in and dispose of real estate, real property, lands, multiple-dwelling structures, houses, buildings and other works and any interest or right therein; to take, lease, purchase or otherwise acquire, and to own, use, hold, sell, convey, exchange, hire, lease, pledge, mortgage, and otherwise handle, and deal in and dispose of, as principal, agent, broker, and in any lawful capacity, such personal property, chattels, chattels real, rights, easements, privileges, choses in action, notes, bonds, mortgages, and securities as may lawfully be acquired, held, or disposed of; and to acquire, purchase, sell, assign, transfer, dispose of, and generally deal in and with, as principal, agent, broker, and in any lawful capacity, mortgages and other interests in real, personal, and mixed properties.
     To carry on a general mercantile, industrial, investing, and trading business in all its branches; to devise, invent, manufacture, fabricate, assemble, install, service, maintain, alter, buy, sell, import, export, license as licensor or licensee, lease as lessor or lessee, distribute, job, enter into, negotiate, execute, acquire, and assign contracts in respect of, acquire, receive, grant, and assign licensing arrangements, options, franchises, and other rights in respect of, and generally deal in and with, at wholesale and retail, as principal, and as sales, business, special, or general agent, representative, broker, factor, merchant, distributor, jobber, advisor, and in any other lawful capacity, goods, wares, merchandise, commodities, and unimproved, improved, finished, processed, and other real, personal, and mixed property of any and all kinds, together with the components, resultants, and by-products thereof.
 
     To apply for, register, obtain, purchase, lease, take licenses in respect of or otherwise acquire, and to hold, own, use, operate, develop, enjoy, turn to account, grant licenses and immunities in respect of, manufacture under and to introduce, sell, assign, mortgage, pledge or otherwise dispose of, and, in any manner deal with and contract with reference to:
     (a) inventions, devices, formulas, processes and improvements and modifications thereof;
     (b) letters patent, patent rights, patented processes, copyrights, designs, and similar rights, trade-marks, trade names, trade symbols and other indications of origin and ownership granted by or recognized under the laws of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, any state or subdivision thereof, and any commonwealth, territory, possession, dependency, colony, possession, agency or instrumentality of the United States of America and of any foreign country, and all rights connected therewith or appertaining thereunto;
     (c) franchises, licenses, grants, and concessions.
     To guarantee, purchase, take, receive, subscribe for, and otherwise acquire, own, hold, use, and otherwise employ, sell, lease, exchange, transfer, and otherwise dispose of, mortgage, lend, pledge, and otherwise deal in and with securities (which term, for the purpose of this Article THIRD, includes, without limitation of the generality thereof, any shares of stock, bonds, debentures, notes, mortgages, other obligations, and any certificates, receipts or other instruments representing rights to receive, purchase or subscribe for the same, or representing any other rights or interests therein or in any property or assets) of any persons, domestic and foreign firms, associations, and corporations, and by any government or agency or instrumentality thereof; to make payment therefor in any lawful manner; and, while owner of any such securities, to exercise any and all rights, powers and privileges in respect thereof, including the right to vote.
     To make, enter into, perform and carry out contracts of every kind and description with any person, firm, association, corporation or government or agency or instrumentality thereof.
     To acquire by purchase, exchange or otherwise, all, or any part of, or any interest in, the properties, assets, business and good will of any one or more persons, firms, associations or corporations heretofore or hereafter engaged in any business for which a corporation may now or hereafter be organized under the laws of the State of Delaware; to pay for the same in cash, property or its own or other securities; to hold, operate, reorganize, liquidate, sell or in any manner dispose of the whole or any part thereof; and in connection therewith, to assume or guarantee performance of any liabilities, obligations or contracts of such persons, firms, associations or corporations, and to conduct the whole or any part of any business thus acquired.
 
     To lend money in furtherance of its corporate purposes and to invest and reinvest its funds from time to time to such extent, to such persons, firms, associations, corporations, governments or agencies or instrumentalities thereof, and on such terms and on such security, if any, as the Board of Directors of the corporation may determine.
     To make contracts of guaranty and suretyship of all kinds and endorse or guarantee the payment of principal, interest or dividends upon, and to guarantee the performance of sinking fund or other obligations of, any securities, and to guarantee in any way permitted by law the performance of any of the contracts or other undertakings in which the corporation may otherwise be or become interested, of any persons, firm, association, corporation, government or agency or instrumentality thereof, or of any other combination, organization or entity whatsoever.
     To borrow money without limit as to amount and at such rates of interest as it may determine; from time to time to issue and sell its own securities, including its shares of stock, notes, bonds, debentures, and other obligations, for such purposes and for such prices, now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware and by this certificate of incorporation, as the Board of Directors of the corporation may determine; and to secure any of its obligations by mortgage, pledge, or other encumbrance of all or any of its property, franchises and income.
     To be a promoter or manager of other corporations of any type or kind; and to participate with others in any corporation, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, or other association of any kind, or in any transaction, undertaking or arrangement which the corporation would have power to conduct by itself, whether or not such participation involves sharing or delegation of control with or to others.
     To draw, make, accept, endorse, discount, execute, and issue promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange, warrants, bonds, debentures, and other negotiable or transferable instruments and evidences of indebtedness whether secured by mortgage or otherwise, as well as to secure the same by mortgage or otherwise, so far as may be permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware.
     To purchase, receive, take, reacquire or otherwise acquire, own and hold, sell, lend, exchange, reissue, transfer or otherwise dispose of, pledge, use, cancel, and otherwise deal in and with its own shares and its other securities from time to time to such an extent and in such manner and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the corporation shall determine; provided that the corporation shall not use its funds or property for the purchase of its own shares of capital stock when its capital is impaired or when such use would cause any impairment of its capital, except to the extent permitted by law.
     To organize, as an incorporator, or cause to be organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, or of any other State of the United States of America, or of the District of Columbia, or of any commonwealth, territory, dependency, colony, possession, agency, or instrumentality of the United States of America, or of any foreign country, a corporation or corporations for the purpose of conducting and promoting any
 
business or purpose for which corporations may be organized, and to dissolve, wind up, liquidate, merge or consolidate any such corporation or corporations or to cause the same to be dissolved, wound up, liquidated, merged or consolidated.
     To conduct its business, promote its purposes, and carry on its operations in any and all of its branches and maintain offices both within and without the State of Delaware, in any and all States of the United States of America, in the District of Columbia, and in any or all commonwealths, territories, dependencies, colonies, possessions, agencies, or instrumentalities of the United States of America and of foreign governments.
     To promote and exercise all or any part of the foregoing purposes and powers in any and all parts of the world, and to conduct its business in all or any of its branches as principal, agent, broker, factor, contractor, and in any other lawful capacity, either alone or through or in conjunction with any corporations, associations, partnerships, firms, trustees, syndicates, individuals, organizations, and other entities in any part of the world, and, in conducting its business and promoting any of its purposes, to maintain offices, branches and agencies in any part of the world, to make and perform any contracts and to do any acts and things, and to carry on any business, and to exercise any powers and privileges suitable, convenient, or proper for the conduct, promotion, and attainment of any of the business and purposes herein specified or which at any time may be incidental thereto or may appear conducive to or expedient for the accomplishment of any of such business and purposes and which might be engaged in or carried on by a corporation incorporated or organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and to have and exercise all of the powers conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware upon corporations incorporated or organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     The foregoing provisions of this Article THIRD shall be construed both as purposes and powers and each as an independent purpose and power. The foregoing enumeration of specific purposes and powers shall not be held to limit or restrict in any manner the purposes and powers of the corporation, and the purposes and powers herein specified shall, except when otherwise provided in this Article THIRD, be in no wise limited or restricted by reference to, or inference from, the terms of any provision of this or any other Article of this certificate of incorporation; provided, that the corporation shall not conduct any business, promote any purpose, or exercise any power or privilege within or without the State of Delaware which, under the laws thereof, the corporation may not lawfully conduct, promote, or exercise.
     FOURTH: 4.1 The total number of shares of all classes of capital stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is one billion one hundred ten million (1,110,000,000 shares) of which ten million (10,000,000) shares shall be Preferred Stock, Class A without par value, issuable in one or more series, and one billion one hundred million (1,100,000,000) shares will be Common Stock, par value $.10 per share.
     4.2 The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized, at any time or from time to time, to divide any or all of the shares of Preferred Stock, Class A, into one
 
or more series, and in the resolution or resolutions establishing a particular series, before issuance of any of the shares thereof, to fix and determine the number of shares and the designation of such series so as to distinguish it from the shares of all other series and classes, and to fix and determine the preferences, voting rights, qualifications, privileges, limitations, options, conversion rights, restrictions and other special or relative rights of the Preferred Stock, Class A, or of such series to the fullest extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware, including, but not limited to, the variations between different series in the following respects:
     (a) The distinctive designation of such series and the number of shares which shall constitute such series, which number may be increased or reduced (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) from time to time by the Board of Directors;
     (b) The annual dividend rate for such series, and the date or dates from which dividends shall commence to accrue;
     (c) The price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions on which the shares of such series may be made redeemable;
     (d) The purchase or sinking fund provision, if any, for the purchase or redemption of shares of such series;
     (e) The preferential amount or amounts payable upon shares of such series in the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation;
     (f) The voting rights, if any, of shares of such series;
     (g) The terms and conditions, if any, upon which shares of such series may be converted and the class or classes or series of shares of the corporation, or other securities, into which such shares may be converted; or
     (h) The relative terms, qualifications, privileges, limitations, options, restrictions, and special or relative rights and preferences, if any, of shares of such series as the Board of Directors may, at the time of such resolution or resolutions, lawfully fix and determine under the laws of the State of Delaware.
     Unless otherwise provided in a resolution or resolutions establishing any particular series, the aggregate number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock, Class A, may be increased by an amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation approved solely by a majority vote of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (or solely with a lesser vote of the Common Stock, or solely by action of the Board of Directors, if permitted by law at the time).
     All shares of any one series shall be alike in every particular, except with respect to the accrual of dividends prior to the date of issuance.
 
     Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A, shall have the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, if any, or the qualifications, limitations or restrictions as set forth on Exhibit A hereto.
     4.3 Except for and subject to those rights expressly granted to the holders of Preferred Stock or any series thereof by resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 4.2 of this Article Fourth and except as may be provided by the laws of the State of Delaware, the holders of Common Stock shall have exclusively all other rights of shareholders.
     4.4 Shares of Common Stock of the corporation may be issued from time to time for such consideration as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, but not less than the par value thereof; and any and all shares so issued, the full consideration for which shall have been paid and delivered, shall be deemed fully paid and non-assessable stock and not liable to any further call or assessment thereon.
     FIFTH: The corporation is to have perpetual existence.
     SIXTH: Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between this corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or between this corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court of equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on the application in a summary way of this corporation or of any creditor or stockholder thereof or on the application of any receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions of Section 279 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code order a meeting of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in such manner as the said court directs. If a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or the stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, agree to any compromise or arrangement and to any reorganization of this corporation as consequence of such compromise or arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said reorganization shall, if sanctioned by the court to which the said application has been made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on all the stockholders or class of stockholders, of this corporation, as the case may be, and also on this corporation.
     SEVENTH: For the management of the business and for the conduct of the affairs of the corporation, and in further definition, limitation and regulation of the powers of the corporation and of its directors and of its stockholders or any class thereof, as the case may be, it is further provided:
     1. The management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of the corporation shall be vested in its Board of Directors. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be fixed by, or in the manner provided in, the By Laws. The phrase Whole Board and the phrase total number of directors shall be
 
deemed to have the same meaning, to wit, the total number of directors which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies. No election of directors need be by written ballot.
     2. The original By Laws of the corporation shall be adopted by the incorporator. Thereafter, the power to make, alter, or repeal, the By Laws, and to adopt any new By Law, except a By Law classifying directors for election for staggered terms, shall be vested in the Board of Directors.
     3. Whenever the corporation shall be authorized to issue only one class of stock, each outstanding share shall entitle the holder thereof to notice of, and the right to vote at, any meeting of stockholders. Whenever the corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock, no outstanding share of any class of stock which is denied voting power under the provisions of the certificate of incorporation shall entitle the holder thereof to the right to vote at any meeting of stockholders except as the provisions of Paragraph (c)(2) of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law shall otherwise require; provided, that no share of any such class which is otherwise denied voting power shall entitle the holder thereof to vote upon the increase or decrease in the number of authorized shares of said class.
     EIGHTH: The corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Section 145 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, as the same may be amended and supplemented, indemnify any and all persons whom it shall have power to indemnify under said section from and against any and all of the expenses, liabilities or other matters referred to in or covered by said section, and the indemnification provided for herein, shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled under any By Law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
     NINTH: From time to time any of the provisions of this certificate of incorporation may be amended, altered or repealed, and other provisions authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force may be added or inserted in the manner and at the time prescribed by said laws, and all rights at any time conferred upon the stockholders of the corporation by this certificate of incorporation are granted subject to the provisions of this Article NINTH.
     TENTH: No director shall be personally liable to the corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for any breach of fiduciary duty by such director as a director, except (i) for breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its shareholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) pursuant to Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. If the General Corporation Law of Delaware is amended after approval by the shareholders of this article to authorize corporate action further
 
eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the full extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, as so amended.
     Any repeal or modification of the foregoing paragraph by the shareholders of the corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by its officer thereunto duly authorized this 8th day of March 2006.
 
     CA, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "Corporation"), in accordance with the provisions of Section 103 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
     1. That by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Corporation dated June 18, 1991, and by a Certificate of Designation filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on June 26, 1991, the Corporation authorized a series of 500,000 shares of Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A, without par value, of the Company (the "Series One Preferred Stock") and established the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other rights of the Series One Preferred Stock and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.
     2. As of the date hereof, no shares of Series One Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares of Series One Preferred Stock have been issued.
     3. That pursuant to the authority conferred on the Board of Directors of the Corporation by its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors adopted the following resolutions at a meeting duly called and held on March 7, 2006:
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Corporation has deemed it advisable that the Certificate of Designation of Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A (the "Certificate of Designation") of the Corporation, be amended to reflect the Corporation's change of name from "Computer Associates International, Inc." to "CA, Inc.", which name change became effective as of February 1, 2006;
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT AND IT HEREBY IS:
     RESOLVED, that, pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation (hereinafter called the Board of Directors or the Board) and in accordance with the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby amends the title of the
 
Certificate of Designation by inserting the Corporation's new corporate name, "CA, Inc." in place of the Corporation's old corporate name, "Computer Associates International, Inc."; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, notwithstanding the foregoing resolution, all other terms of the Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A, without par value (the Preferred Stock) of the Corporation, the designation and number of shares thereof, and the relative rights, preferences and limitations thereof, remain unchanged and are as set forth below:
     Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A
          Section 1. . The shares of such series shall be designated as Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Class A (the Series One Preferred Stock) and the number of shares constituting the Series One Preferred Stock shall be Five Hundred Thousand (500,000). Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series One Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series One Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
          Section 2. .
Dividends and Distributions
     (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any other stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series One Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, dividends in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent), equal to 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends declared on the Common Stock, par value $.10 per share (the Common Stock), and 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions declared on the Common Stock, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise). Any such dividend on the Preferred Stock shall be payable on the same date as any dividend payable with respect to the Common Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which
 
is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series One Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock).
     (C) The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be the same date as the record date for the determination of shares of Common Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution thereon and shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
          Section 3. . The holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
     (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series One Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1,000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Designation creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
     (C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series One Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
          Section 4. . (A) Whenever semi-annual or quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series One Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter
Certain Restrictions
 
and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series One Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
     (i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series One Preferred Stock;
     (ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series One Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series One Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled; or
     (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series One Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (as to dividends and upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series One Preferred Stock.
     (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under Paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
          Section 5. . Any shares of Series One Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Designation creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
Reacquired Shares
          Section 6. .
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
     (A) Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, prior and in preference to any distribution of any assets of the Corporation to the holders of Common Stock, the amount of $1,000.00 per share for each share of Series One Preferred Stock then held by them. Thereafter, the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock plus an amount equal to any
 
accrued and unpaid dividends. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) If the assets of the Corporation legally available for distribution to the holders of shares of Series One Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation are insufficient to pay the full preferential amount set forth in the first sentence of paragraph (A) above, then the entire assets of the Corporation legally available for distribution to the holders of Series One Preferred Stock shall be distributed among such holders in proportion to the shares of Series One Preferred Stock then held by them.
     (C) The foregoing rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up provided to the holders of Series One Preferred Stock shall be subject to the rights of the holders of any other series of Preferred Stock (or any other stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series One Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up.
          Section 7. . In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or other property, then in any such case each share of Series One Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchange. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc
 
          Section 8. . The shares of Series One Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amended Certificate of Designation is executed on behalf of the Corporation on this 8th day of March, 2006.

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
March 7, 2006
WHEREAS, Computer Associates International, Inc. (renamed CA, Inc., the "Company") and Pat Gnazzo (the "Employee") entered into an Employment Agreement, effective as of January, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement); and
WHEREAS, the parties thereto wish to amend the Employment Agreement to extend the period during with the Company's relocation policy is made available to the Employee;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the second paragraph under Section 5 of the Employment Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
"Until December 31, 2006 or such later time as mutually agreed to by the parties, the Company will provide the Employee, at the Employee's election, with assistance to relocate from his current home in Connecticut to the New York area in accordance with the Company's then-effective relocation policy."
and;
FURTHER RESOLVED, that except as otherwise amended by consent of both parties of the Employment Agreement and as modified by this Amendment, the terms of the Employment Agreement remain in full force and effect in accordance with the terms thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and Employee has hereunto set his hand, effective as of the 6 of March, 2006.
th

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., March 9, 2006  CA (NYSE:CA) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a $600 million common stock repurchase plan for its fiscal year 2007, beginning April 1, 2006.
"Returning money to shareholders is an important component of CA's capital allocation strategy," said CA CEO and President John Swainson. "We carefully consider ways to use our capital to make investments to grow our business and to return cash to our shareholders through vehicles like the stock repurchase plan we announced today."
The stock repurchase plan calls for quarterly common stock buybacks of $150 million, or $600 million in total for fiscal year 2007. During the quarter, the regular purchases will be made in the open market or in private transactions.
About CA
CA (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, unifies and simplifies the management of enterprise-wide IT. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the risks and uncertainties associated with the CA deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office of the Eastern District, including that CA could be subject to criminal prosecution or civil penalties if it violates this agreement; the risks and uncertainties associated with the agreement that CA entered into with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including that CA may be subject to criminal prosecution or substantial civil penalties and fines if it violates this agreement; civil litigation arising out of the matters that are the subject of the Department of Justice and the SEC investigations, including shareholder derivative litigation; changes to the compensation plan of CA's sales
 
organization may encourage behavior not anticipated or intended as it is implemented; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies and products into its existing businesses; CA is subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing and increased competition is expected in the future; certain software that CA uses in daily operations is licensed from third parties and thus may not be available to CA in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production; if CA's products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, CA could lose customers and the demand for CA's products and services could decrease; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further which would require CA to pay additional interest under its credit agreement and could adversely affect CA's ability to borrow; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights would weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; general economic conditions may lead CA's customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; third parties could claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses; if we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, including the successful implementation of our enterprise resource planning software, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed; and the other factors described in CA's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended March 31, 2005, and any amendment thereto, and in its most recent quarterly reports filed with the SEC. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright 2006 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies


