FILE:CA/CA-8K-20060725162552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry of a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On July 24, 2006, CA, Inc. (the "Company") entered into the Company's standard form of Separation Agreement and General Claims Release (the "Separation Agreement") with Gregory Corgan, the Company's former Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales. The following summary of the Separation Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Separation Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Corgan's employment with the Company ended on June 30, 2006.
     Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Corgan provided the Company with a general release of claims against the Company, certified that he has complied with his employment and confidentiality agreement, acknowledged his obligation to continue to preserve the confidentiality of certain information created or learned during his employment and agreed to make himself available in connection with matters relating to his employment. In exchange for this general release, the Company agreed to pay Mr. Corgan the sum of $550,000 (equal to one year's base salary) and $12,000 to assist him with medical insurance coverage. The Company also agreed to indemnify Mr. Corgan with respect to any action, suit or proceeding to which he is made or threatened to be made a party that arises out of Mr. Corgan's good faith performance of his job responsibilities with the Company.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
CA, Inc., on behalf of its officers, directors, shareholders, employees, agents, representatives, parents, subsidiaries, legal entities in or outside the United States, affiliates, divisions, successors and assigns (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Company") and "I" Gregory Corgan agree as follows:
1. I acknowledge that the Company advised me to read this agreement (the "Agreement") and carefully consider all of its terms before signing it. The Company gave me 21 calendar days to consider this Agreement. I acknowledge that:
2. I understand that I may revoke this Agreement within seven (7) days after I sign it by providing written notice on or before the seventh (7) day after signing this Agreement to Andrew Goodman, Executive Vice President of Human Resources, located at One CA Plaza, Islandia, New York, 11749. I understand and agree that the Company will not send me any consideration described in paragraph 3 below until the seven (7) day revocation period has expired.
th
3. My employment with the Company ended on June 30, 2006. In exchange for my full acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Company agrees to pay me the following consideration:
     (a) the sum of $550,000 DOLLARS and NO CENTS as a separation payment ("Separation Payment"); and
     (b) the sum of $12,000 DOLLARS and NO CENTS to assist me in continuing my medical insurance coverage ("COBRA Assistance Payment").
1
 
 
I understand and agree that the Company will make normal withholdings from the Separation Payment and COBRA Assistance Payment for things such as federal, state and local taxes. I further understand that the combined amount of the Separation Payment and COBRA Assistance Payment will be made in one lump sum payable on the first full payroll cycle following my return of this executed Agreement to the Company.
4. To the greatest extent permitted by law, I release the Company from any and all known or unknown claims and obligations of any nature and kind, in law, equity or otherwise, arising out of or in any way related to agreements, events, acts or conduct at any time prior to and including the date I execute this Agreement. The claims I am waiving and releasing under this Agreement include, but are not limited to, any claims and demands that directly or indirectly arise out of or are in any way connected to my employment with the Company or the Company's termination of my employment; any claims or demands related to salary, bonuses, commissions, stock, stock options, or any other ownership interest in the Company; and, any claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Acts of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act and any other federal law, state law, local law, country law, common law, or any other statute, regulation, or law of any type. I also waive any right to any remedy that has been or may be obtained from the Company through the efforts of any other person or any government agency.
5. I understand and agree that the waiver and release of claims contained in paragraph 4 of this Agreement shall not apply to any of the following:
 
6. I acknowledge that the Company is under no obligation to make the payments or provide the benefits being provided to me pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Agreement, and that the Company will do so only subject to my agreement to, and compliance with, the terms of this Agreement.
7. I understand and agree that I will not say that this Agreement is an admission of guilt or wrongdoing by the Company and I acknowledge that the Company does not believe or admit that it has done anything wrong. I also will not do anything to criticize, denigrate, or disparage the Company.
8. I certify that I have complied with the provisions of the Employment and Confidentiality Agreement (or similar agreement) that I signed when I began working for the Company (the "Employee Agreement") and that I have not done or in any way been a party to, or knowingly permitted, any of the following;
 
9. I understand and agree that I have a continuing obligation to preserve as confidential (and not to reveal to anyone or use, for myself or anyone else) any trade secret, know-how or confidential information created or learned by me during my employment with the Company. By signing this Agreement, I confirm my promise to perform each and every one of the obligations that I undertook in the Employee Agreement, to the extent applicable. I expressly confirm that I know of no reason why any promise or obligation set forth in the Employee Agreement, to the extent applicable, should not be fully enforceable against me. I understand that the terms of the Employee Agreement are incorporated into this Agreement by reference.
10. I agree that if a court of law determines that I have breached a promise that I make under this Agreement that I will be obligated to pay the reasonable attorney's fees and any damages the Company may incur as a result of or related to such breach. I acknowledge that any actual or threatened violation of Paragraphs 8 or 9 would irreparably harm the Company, and that the Company will be entitled to an injunction (without the need to post any bond) prohibiting me from committing any such violation.
11. This Agreement and the Employee Agreement contain the entire agreement between me and the Company regarding the subjects addressed herein, and may be amended only by a writing signed by myself and the Company's Executive Vice President of Human Resources. I acknowledge that the Company has made no representations or promises to me other than those in this Agreement. If any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement is determined to be illegal or unenforceable for any reason, such provision or other portion thereof will be modified or deleted in such manner as to make this Agreement, as modified, legal and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted under applicable law.
 
12. I agree that if I am notified that any claim has been filed against me or the Company that relates to my employment with the Company, I will provide prompt written notice of the same to the Company, and shall cooperate fully with the Company in resolving any such claim. Further, I agree that I will make myself reasonably available to the Company representatives in connection with any and all claims, disputes, negotiations, investigations, lawsuits or administrative proceedings relating to my tenure with the Company. I further agree that I will provide the Company with any information and/or documentation in my possession or control that it may request in connection with any and all claims, disputes, negotiations, investigations, lawsuits or administrative proceedings related to my tenure with the Company. I further agree that if requested to do so by the Company, I will provide declarations or statements to the Company, will meet with attorneys or other representatives of the Company, and will prepare for and give depositions or testimony on behalf of the Company relating to any claims, disputes, negotiations, investigations, lawsuits or administrative proceedings related to my tenure with the Company. I understand and agree that to the extent my compliance with the terms of this paragraph 12 requires me to travel or otherwise incur expenses, the Company will reimburse me for any such reasonable expenses that I incur. Finally, I understand that subject to and in accordance with applicable law and the Company Bylaws as in effect from time to time, the Company agrees to indemnify me with respect to any action, suit or proceeding to which I am made or threatened to be made a party that arises out of my good faith performance of my job responsibilities with the Company.
13. This Agreement binds my heirs, administrators, representatives, executors, successors, and assigns, and will inure to the benefit of the Company.
14. This Agreement shall be governed by and, for all purposes, construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in such state. The federal or state courts of the State of New York shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over any claim or cause of action relating to this Agreement, my employment with the Company, or my separation from the Company. I will accept service of process as provided under New York law or by registered mail, return receipt requested, and waive any objection to personal jurisdiction over me in the state or federal courts of the State of New York.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREFORE, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed in its corporate name, by an individual with full authorization to act on its behalf. Further, I sign my name and enter this Agreement on behalf of myself, my legal representatives, executors, heirs and assigns.


