FILE:CA/CA-8K-20071105161638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Table of Contents
On November 5, 2007, CA, Inc. (the "Company") announced the election of Marc F. Stoll as Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, who will also serve as the Company's principal accounting officer, effective November 5, 2007. Mr. Stoll is not receiving any additional compensation or benefits for his service in the Controller role. However, he is being asked to relocate to the Company's Islandia, New York offices to perform his new role and in connection with this relocation, he may receive relocation benefits, including reimbursement for rental expenses, not greater in amount than would be generally available to employees similarly situated under the Company's relocation policies.
Prior to becoming the Company's Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Mr. Stoll served as the Company's Senior Vice President  Finance from August 2006, reporting directly to the Company's Chief Financial Officer and responsible for all aspects of the Company's Financial Planning and Analysis, Treasury, Tax and Corporate Business Development departments. From June 2004 to August 2006, Mr. Stoll served as the Company's Senior Vice President  Strategic Finance, responsible for quantitatively assessing and financially pricing the impact of corporate actions and competitive response. From September 2002 to June 2004, Mr. Stoll was Vice President  Technology Equity Research for Julius Baer Investment Management, a private asset management company, where he was responsible for large-cap buy-side equity research.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., November 5, 2007  CA, Inc. (NYSE: CA) today announced that Marc Stoll has been named senior vice president and corporate controller, reporting to CA Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Nancy Cooper.
In addition, Robert Cirabisi, who has served as corporate controller since July 2005, has been named chief risk officer and interim head of internal audit, reporting to CA Executive Vice President, Global Risk and Compliance, and Chief Compliance Officer Kenneth Handal.
"Marc's focus as corporate controller will be on enhancing the corporate financial strategy, planning and analysis, and financial controls for the company worldwide," said Cooper.
"In his new role, Bob will help to further develop CA's enterprise risk program." Handal said. "Bob will be leveraging more than seven years of experience at CA in both finance and investor relations to help the company identify and manage its most important risks."
Stoll, 37, brings more than fourteen years of experience in the technology industry to the position of corporate controller. Since joining CA in 2004, Stoll has held senior vice president positions in finance and has had responsibilities for financial planning and analysis, treasury, tax, business development and strategic finance. Prior to joining CA, Stoll was vice president of equity research for the technology sector at Julius Baer Investment Management. Previously, he worked at Compaq Computer Corporation progressing from engineering, to business planning and strategy to the position of finance manager for Compaq's venture group. He also served as a manager of information technology integration at DTE Energy.
Stoll earned a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering, cum laude, from Michigan Technological University and a master of business administration degree from the University of Chicago, Graduate School of Business. He also attended the graduate school of business international exchange program at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.
Cirabisi, 43, joined CA in 2000 in finance before becoming vice president of investor relations in 2002, and senior vice president and chief accounting officer in July, 2004. He became corporate controller in July, 2005. He also served as interim CFO for three months in 2006. A Certified Public Accountant, Cirabisi has accumulated more than 13 years of public accounting experience at major U.S. accounting firms. He earned a bachelor's degree in public accounting from Hofstra University.
About CA
 
CA (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, unifies and simplifies the management of enterprise-wide IT. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
Copyright 2007 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.


