FILE:CA/CA-8K-20070201164305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On February 1, 2007, CA, Inc. ("CA") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
ISLANDIA, N.Y., February 1, 2007  CA, Inc. (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, today reported financial results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2007, ended December 31, 2006.
Financial Overview
 
"I am pleased with our third quarter performance," said John Swainson, CA's president and chief executive officer. "We made progress executing on our second half plan and recorded a solid third quarter with significant growth in cash flow from operations and total bookings.
"Overall, we are seeing healthy demand in the marketplace for our Enterprise IT Management solutions and especially those solutions we have acquired over
 
the past two years," Swainson said. "Our customers continue to turn to us to help them solve their most complex information technology management and security issues. Going forward, we will continue to focus on superior execution and on becoming even stronger partners with our customers."
Revenue for the third quarter was $1 billion, an increase of 4 percent or 1 percent in constant currency, over the $965 million reported in the comparable period last year. Aside from currency gains, the increase in revenue primarily was attributed to growth in subscription revenue, partially offset by declines in software fees and other revenue, maintenance and financing fees. Revenue from professional services increased 11 percent over the prior year. Total North America revenue was up 4 percent while revenue from international operations was up 3 percent, or down 3 percent in constant currency.
Subscription revenue for the third quarter was $773 million, an increase of 8 percent or 5 percent in constant currency, compared to $717 million reported in the third quarter of last year. The increase primarily was due to growth in new deferred subscription value from the sale of solutions in CA's Enterprise Systems Management, Business Service Optimization and Security Management business units, led by the sale of acquired products. Subscription revenue accounted for 77 percent of total revenue in the quarter, up from 74 percent reported in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006.
Total product and services bookings in the third quarter were $1.55 billion, up 65 percent from $944 million in the prior year period. This increase was attributed in part to growth in sales of new products and services, improved management of contract renewals, the benefits achieved from the realignment of CA's sales force earlier in the fiscal year and an increase in the volume, length and dollar amounts of large contracts. During the quarter, the Company renewed six license agreements valued in excess of
 
$40 million for an aggregate value of approximately $472 million, with one contract valued at over $100 million. The average contract length grew to 3.7 years compared to 3.5 years during the prior year period due to an improved process and greater discipline in evaluating the financial implications of executing longer contracts. In the comparable period last year, the Company renewed two contracts each totaling more than $40 million with an aggregate value of approximately $108 million.
Total expenses, before interest and taxes, for the third quarter were $907 million, compared to the $910 million reported in the prior year period. On a constant currency basis, expenses were down 3 percent. The Company experienced significantly lower commission expenses associated with the Company's revised incentive compensation program. This was offset in part by costs associated with the delivery of professional services commensurate with the increase in professional services revenue. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company reported operating expenses of $791 million, which excludes restructuring, acquisition amortization, and certain legal expenses and was up 2 percent from the $775 million reported in the comparable period last year and slightly down on a constant currency basis. A reconciliation of GAAP expenses to non-GAAP operating expenses is included in the tables following this news release.
In the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, the Company recorded restructuring and other charges of approximately $32 million, of which $14 million was related to severance costs and $15 million was associated with the closure of facilities under the fiscal year 2007 cost reduction and restructuring plan. The Company continues to expect the total costs associated with the 2007 restructuring plan to be approximately $150 million, which will be recognized during the remainder of fiscal year 2007 and into fiscal year 2008.
The Company recorded GAAP income from continuing operations of $52 million for the third quarter, or $0.10 per diluted common share, compared
 
to income from continuing operations of $56 million, or $0.09 per diluted common share, reported in the prior year period. The improvement in GAAP earnings per share reflects the reduced share count principally associated with the completion of the Company's $1 billion share repurchase in the second quarter of fiscal year 2007.
The Company reported non-GAAP income from continuing operations of $133 million for the third quarter, or $0.24 per diluted common share, compared to $146 million, or $0.24 per diluted common share a year earlier. A reconciliation of GAAP income from continuing operations to non-GAAP income is included in the tables following this news release.
For the third quarter, CA generated cash flow from operations of $587 million, up 39 percent compared to $422 million in cash flow from operations reported in the prior year comparable period. Third quarter cash flow was affected positively by the higher volume of bookings and associated billings and an increase of approximately $120 million in the aggregate amount of upfront single installment contract payments over the comparable period last fiscal year. In addition, the third quarter positively was affected by improved accounts receivable collections including the early receipt of one payment of approximately $46 million scheduled for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007.
During the third quarter, restructuring payments were $27 million, compared to restructuring payments of $11 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006. Adjusting for these payments, cash flow from operations was $614 million, up 42 percent from the prior year period.
The balance of cash and marketable securities at December 31, 2006, was $1.8 billion. With $2.6 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net debt position of approximately $743 million.
 
The Company said it is continuing to evaluate its ongoing performance, as well as market conditions, before making a decision on the implementation of further stock repurchases. Year-to-date, CA has repurchased 51 million shares of common stock at a cost of about $1.2 billion.
Outlook for Fiscal Year 2007
CA updated its outlook for the fiscal year and believes it will:
The Company also anticipates total product and services bookings to grow in the range of 12 percent to 15 percent for the full fiscal year as it focuses on new product sales and continued discipline in its contract renewal process.
 
Webcast
This news release and the accompanying tables should be read in conjunction with additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, as well as a webcast that the Company will host at 5 p.m. ET today to discuss its unaudited third quarter results. The webcast will be archived on the website. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at or listen to the call at 888-576-4172. The international participant number is 706-902-0518.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA
CA (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, unifies and simplifies the management of enterprise-wide IT. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release, the accompanying tables and the additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, include financial measures for per share earnings and cash flows that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP "operating" earnings per share excludes the following items: non-cash amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles, in process research and development charges, the government investigation and class settlement charges, restructuring and other charges, and the tax resulting from the repatriation of approximately $584 million of foreign cash and interest on dilutive convertible bonds (the convertible shares, rather than the interest, are more dilutive, thus the interest is added back and the shares
 
increased to calculate non-GAAP operating earnings). Non-GAAP taxes are provided based on the estimated effective annual non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes the following items: Restitution Fund payments, restructuring payments, and the impact of certain non-recurring tax payments or tax benefits. Free cash flow excludes capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this news release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, which are attached to this news release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the risks and
 
uncertainties associated with the CA deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office of the Eastern District, including that CA could be subject to criminal prosecution or civil penalties if it violates this agreement; the risks and uncertainties associated with the agreement that CA entered into with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including that CA may be subject to criminal prosecution or substantial civil penalties and fines if it violates this agreement; civil litigation arising out of the matters that are the subject of the Department of Justice and the SEC investigations, including shareholder derivative litigation; changes to the CA incentive compensation plan, sales organization and sales coverage model may lead to outcomes that are not anticipated or intended as they are implemented; CA may not adequately manage and evolve its financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, including the successful implementation of its enterprise resource planning software; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies and products into its existing businesses; CA is subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing and increased competition is expected in the future; if CA's products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, CA could lose customers and the demand for CA's products and services could decrease; certain software that CA uses in daily operations is licensed from third parties and thus may not be available to CA in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further which would require CA to pay additional interest under its credit agreement and could adversely affect CA's ability to borrow; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights would weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; general economic conditions may lead CA's customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; third parties could claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in translation losses; and the
 
other factors described in CA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 and CA's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September, 30, 2006. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright 2007 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 


