FILE:CA/CA-8K-20071211170927.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
On December 11, 2007, CA, Inc. (the "Company") announced the retirement of Lewis S. Ranieri as a member of the Company's Board of Directors, effective December 10, 2007.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Ranieri's retirement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., December 11, 2007  CA, Inc. (NYSE: CA) today announced that Lewis Ranieri, who led CA's Board of Directors through one of the most critical periods in the Company's 31-year history, has retired from the Board, effective December 10, 2007.
In informing the Board of his decision, Ranieri, 60, cited family circumstances as the reason for ending his six-year tenure on CA's Board of Directors. Ranieri was re-elected to CA's Board last August with more than 97 percent of votes cast for his election.
"I am truly honored to have been part of the turnaround at CA, and feel I leave the company in strong hands with a strong board led by you as its chairman and John Swainson as its CEO," Ranieri wrote to William E. McCracken, CA's non-executive chairman of the Board.
Ranieri began his service as a director of the Company in 2001, served as lead independent director from May 2002 to April 2004, and served as non-executive chairman of the Board from April 2004 to June 2007.
In his role first as lead independent director and then as non-executive chairman, Ranieri is credited with leading the Board during the investigation of accounting improprieties, negotiating a successful settlement with the government and rebuilding the Company.
"The CA that exists today is a direct result of the dedication and commitment of Lewis Ranieri," McCracken said. "His unselfish leadership was key to restoring confidence in the Company with shareholders, customers and employees."
"Lewis made tremendous contributions to this Company, and his leadership has been vital to CA's transformation," Swainson said. "I am personally grateful for his support and guidance over the years. We wish him the best."
The Company said it will not replace Ranieri at this time. With Ranieri's retirement, CA's Board now numbers 11 members.
 
About CA
CA (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, unifies and simplifies the management of enterprise-wide IT. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
Copyright 2007 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.


