FILE:CA/CA-8K-20070827164726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     On August 22, 2007, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of CA, Inc. (the "Company"), stockholders approved the 2007 Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan"). The 2007 Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors on June 12, 2007, subject to the appropriate approval by a vote at the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the holders of at least a majority of the Company's shares, present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at such meeting. The Plan is intended to enable the Company to achieve superior financial performance by providing incentives and rewards to certain employees and consultants who are in a position to contribute to the Company's success and long-term objectives. As more fully described in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement filed July 13, 2007 (the "Proxy Statement") (such description being incorporated herein by reference), the 2007 Plan is also intended to aid in the recruitment and retention of employees and to provide employees and consultants an opportunity to acquire or expand equity interests in the Company, thus aligning the interest of such employees and consultants with those of stockholders.
     The foregoing description of the 2007 Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such plan (including any schedules and exhibits hereto), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
     As previously reported, on November 22, 2004, the Compensation and Human Resource Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company granted restricted share units to Mr. Swainson under which he will be entitled to receive common shares upon any future termination of his employment. On August 21, 2007, the Committee approved a $45,000 cash payment to Mr. Swainson in light of certain taxes that are payable by him in respect of this grant even though he will not receive any of the shares until a future date.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 10.1 CA, Inc. 2007 Incentive Plan
Exhibit 10.2 Form of Award Agreement  Restricted Stock Units
Exhibit 10.3 Form of Award Agreement  Restricted Stock Awards
Exhibit 10.4 Form of Award Agreement  Nonqualified Stock Options
Exhibit 10.5 Form of Award Agreement  Incentive Stock Options
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
     1.1 . The purpose of this CA, Inc. 2007 Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to enable CA, Inc. (the "Company") to achieve superior financial performance, as reflected in the performance of its Common Stock and other key financial or operating indicators by (i) providing incentives and rewards to certain Employees and Consultants who are in a position to contribute to the success and long-term objectives of the Company, (ii) aiding in the recruitment and retention of Employees and (iii) providing Employees and Consultants an opportunity to acquire or expand equity interests in the Company, thus aligning the interests of such Employees and Consultants with those of the Company's shareholders. Towards these objectives, the Plan provides for the grant of Annual Performance Bonuses, Stock Options, Restricted Stock and Other Equity-Based Awards.
Purpose
     1.2 . The Plan is effective as of June 12, 2007, subject to the approval by a vote at the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or any adjournment of such meeting, of the holders of at least a majority of the Shares of the Company, present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at such meeting. Any Awards granted under the Plan prior to the approval of the Plan by the Company's shareholders, as provided herein, shall be contingent on such approval; if such approval is not obtained, the Plan shall have no effect, and any Awards granted under the Plan shall be rescinded.
Effective Date; Shareholder Approval
     For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless another definition is clearly indicated by particular usage and context:
     2.1 "" means an Award described in Section 4.4 of the Plan.
Annual Performance Bonus
     2.2 "" means any form of incentive or performance award granted under the Plan, whether singly or in combination, to a Participant pursuant to such terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations (if any) as the Committee may establish and as
Award
 
set forth in the applicable Award Agreement. Awards granted under the Plan may consist of:
     2.3 "" means the document issued, either in writing or by electronic means, by the Company to a Participant evidencing the grant of an Award.
Award Agreement
     2.4 "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     2.5 "" means the happening of any of the following events:
Change in Control
     (a) an acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"))(a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 35% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); excluding, however, the following: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, other than an acquisition by virtue of the exercise of a conversion privilege unless the security being so converted was itself directly acquired from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, or (iv) any acquisition pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (c) of this Section 2.5; or
     (b) a change in the composition of the Board such that the individuals who, as of the effective date of the Plan, constitute the Board (such Board shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board; , , for purposes of this Section 2.5, that any individual who becomes a member of the Board subsequent to the effective date of the Plan, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of a majority of those individuals who are members of the Board and who were also members of the Incumbent Board (or deemed to be such pursuant to this proviso) shall be considered as though such individual was a member of the Incumbent Board; but,
provided
however
 
, that any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of any actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board shall not be so considered as a member of the Incumbent Board; or
provided
further
     (c) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company ("Corporate Transaction"); excluding, however, such a Corporate Transaction pursuant to which (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who are beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction (including, without limitation, a corporation which as the result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (other than the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction) will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, 30% or more of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Corporate Transaction, and (iii) individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board will constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction; or
     (d) the approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
     2.6 "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     2.7 "" means the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board formed to act on performance-based compensation for Key Employees, or any successor committee or subcommittee of the Board. However, if a member of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee is not an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code or is not a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, the Compensation and Human Resource Committee may from time to time delegate some or all of its functions under the Plan to a committee or subcommittee composed of members that meet the relevant requirements. The term "Committee" includes any such committee or subcommittee, to the extent of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee's delegation.
Committee
 
     2.8 "" means the Common Stock, $.10 par value per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
     2.9 "" means CA, Inc.
Company
     2.10 "" means any consultant or adviser if:
Consultant
     (a) the consultant or advisor renders bona fide services to the Company;
     (b) the services rendered by the consultant or advisor are not in connection with the offer or sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction and do not directly or indirectly promote or maintain a market for the Company's securities; and
     (c) the consultant or adviser is a natural person who has contracted directly with the Company to render such services.
     2.11 "" or " means permanently and totally disabled within the meaning of Section 22(e) of the Code.
Disabled
"Disability
     2.12 "" means any individual who performs services as a common law employee for the Company or a Related Company. "Employee" shall not include any seasonal or temporary employees.
Employee
     2.13 "" means the price per Share, as fixed by the Committee, at which Shares may be purchased under a Stock Option. In no event shall the Exercise Price with respect to any Share subject to a Stock Option be set at a price that is less than the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date of grant.
Exercise Price
     2.14 "" of a Share means either (a) the closing sales price of a Share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the applicable date, (b) if no sales of Shares are reported for such date, for the next preceding day for which such sales were reported, or (c) the fair market value of a Share determined in accordance with any other reasonable method approved by the Committee in its discretion.
Fair Market Value
     2.15 "" means a Stock Option the Exercise Price of which is set by the Committee at a price per Share equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant.
Fair Market Value Stock Option
     2.16 "" means generally accepted accounting principles.
GAAP
     2.17 "" means a Stock Option granted under Section 4.7 of the Plan that meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code and any regulations or rules promulgated thereunder and is designated in the Award Agreement to be an Incentive Stock Option.
Incentive Stock Option
     2.18 "" means an Employee who is a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.
Key Employee
 
     2.19 "" means an Award described in Section 4.5 of the Plan.
Long-Term Performance Bonus
     2.20 "" means any Stock Option granted under Section 4.7 of the Plan that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Stock Option
     2.21 "" means an Employee or Consultant who has been granted an Award under the Plan.
Participant
     2.22 "" means a period measured by the Company's fiscal year or years over which the level of attainment of performance of one or more Performance Measures shall be determined; provided, however, that the Committee, in its discretion, may determine to use a period that is less than a full fiscal year.
Performance Cycle
     2.23 "" means, with respect to any Award granted in connection with a Performance Cycle, the business criteria selected by the Committee to measure the level of performance of the Company during such Performance Cycle. The Committee may select as the Performance Measure for a Performance Cycle any one or combination of the following Company measures (including any component thereof), as interpreted by the Committee, which (to the extent applicable) shall be determined on a GAAP basis, either pre-tax or after-tax and may be determined on a per share basis:
Performance Measure
     (a) Net Operating Profit;
     (b) Return On Invested Capital;
     (c) Total Shareholder Return;
     (d) Relative Total Shareholder Return (as compared against a peer group of the Company, which, unless otherwise specified by the Committee, shall be the companies comprising the Standard & Poor's Systems Software Index, excluding the Company);
     (e) Earnings;
     (f) Net Income, as adjusted;
     (g) Cash Flow;
     (h) Revenue;
     (i) Revenue Growth;
     (j) Share Performance;
     (k) Relative Share Performance;
     (l) Billings Growth; and/or
 
     (m) Customer Satisfaction.
     2.24 "" means the CA, Inc. 2007 Incentive Plan, as set forth in this document and as may be further amended from time to time.
Plan
     2.25 "" means an Annual Performance Bonus, Long-Term Performance Bonus, Restricted Stock Award or Other Equity-Based Award that is intended by the Committee to meet the requirements for "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Code section 162(m) and Treasury Regulation section 1.162-27(e).
Qualified Performance Award
     2.26 "" means the period within which Committee determinations regarding Performance Measures, targets and payout formulas in connection with Qualified Performance Awards must be made. The Qualified Performance Award Determination Period is the period beginning on the first day of a Performance Cycle and ending no later than ninety (90) days after commencement of the Performance Cycle; provided, however, that in the case of a Performance Cycle that is less than 12 months in duration, the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period shall end no later than the date on which 25% of the Performance Cycle has elapsed.
Qualified Performance Award Determination Period
     2.27 "" means a consolidated subsidiary of the Company for purposes of reporting in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Related Company
     2.28 "" means an Employee who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Reporting Person
     2.29 "" means Shares issued under a Long-Term Performance Bonus under Section 4.5 or under a Restricted Stock Award pursuant to Section 4.6, which are subject to such restrictions as the Committee, in its discretion, may impose.
Restricted Stock
     2.30 "" means retirement (i) at or after age 55 with ten years of service or (ii) at or after age 65.
Retirement
     2.31 "" means the Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement dated as of October 16, 2006 between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC (as rights agent).
Rights Agreement
     2.32 "" means shares of Common Stock.
Shares
     2.33 "" means a right granted under Section 4.7 of the Plan to purchase from the Company a stated number of Shares at a specified price. Stock Options awarded under the Plan shall be in the form of either Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options.
Stock Option
     2.34 "" means the date of cessation of a Consultant's service relationship with the Company for any reason, with or without cause, as determined by the Company.
Termination of Consultancy
 
     2.35 "" means the date of cessation of an Employee's employment relationship with the Company and any Related Company for any reason, with or without cause, as determined by the Company; provided, however, that, subject to the requirements of applicable law, an Employee's employment relationship for purposes of the Plan may be treated as continuing intact while the Employee is on military leave, sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence (such as temporary employment with the Government). Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan, an Employee's employment relationship shall be treated as continuing intact if the period of such leave does not exceed ninety (90) days, or if longer, so long as the Employee's right to reemployment with the Company or a Related Company is guaranteed either by statute or by contract.
Termination of Employment
     3.1 . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
The Committee
     3.2 . The Committee shall have authority, in its sole and absolute discretion and subject to the terms of the Plan, to (1) interpret the Plan; (2) prescribe such rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the proper operation and administration of the Plan, and amend or rescind any existing rules or regulations relating to the Plan; (3) select Employees and Consultants to receive Awards under the Plan; (4) determine the form of an Award, the number of Shares subject to an Award, all the terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations, if any, of an Award including, without limitation, the timing or conditions of exercise or vesting, and the terms of any Award Agreement; (5) determine whether Awards will be granted singly, in combination or in tandem; (6) establish and administer Performance Measures in connection with Awards, including Qualified Performance Awards granted under the Plan; (7) certify the level of performance attainment for Performance Measures in connection with Qualified Performance Awards granted under the Plan; (8) except as provided in Section 4.10, waive or amend any terms, conditions, restrictions or limitations of an Award; (9) in accordance with Article V, make such adjustments to the Plan (including but not limited to adjustment of the number of shares available under the Plan or any Award) and/or to any Award granted under the Plan, as may be appropriate; (10) accelerate the vesting, exercise or payment of an Award; (11) provide for the deferred payment of Awards in Shares and the extent to which dividend equivalents shall be paid or credited with respect to such Awards; (12) determine whether Nonqualified Stock Options may be transferable to family members, a family trust or a family partnership; (13) establish such subplans as the Committee may determine to be necessary in order to implement and administer the Plan in foreign countries; and (14) take any and all other action it deems necessary or advisable for the proper operation or administration of the Plan.
Authority of the Committee
     3.3 . All determinations of the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons having an interest in the Plan.
Effect of Determinations
 
     3.4 . The Committee, in its discretion, may delegate its authority and duties under the Plan to such other individual, individuals or committee as it may deem advisable, under such conditions and subject to such limitations as the Committee may establish. Notwithstanding the foregoing, only the Committee shall have authority to grant and administer Awards to Key Employees and other Reporting Persons, to establish and certify Performance Measures and to grant Awards to any Employee who is acting as a delegate of the Committee in respect of the Plan.
Delegation of Authority
     3.5 . No member of the Committee, nor any person acting as a delegate of the Committee in respect of the Plan, shall be liable for any losses incurred by any person resulting from any action, interpretation or construction made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted thereunder.
No Liability
     4.1 . Except as otherwise provided herein with respect to a specific form of an Award, all Employees and Consultants shall be eligible to receive Awards granted under the Plan.
Eligibility
     4.2 . The Committee, at its sole discretion, shall select from time to time Participants from those persons eligible under Section 4.1 above to receive Awards under the Plan.
Participation
     4.3 . (a) Awards granted under the Plan shall be in the form of Annual Performance Bonuses, Long-Term Performance Bonuses, Restricted Stock, Stock Options, and Other Equity-Based Awards. Awards shall be in the form determined by the Committee, in its discretion, and shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement. Awards may be granted singly, in combination or in tandem with other Awards. The terms and conditions applicable to Annual Performance Bonuses shall be as set forth in Section 4.4. The terms applicable to Long-Term Performance Bonuses shall be as set forth in Section 4.5. The terms and conditions applicable to Restricted Stock shall be as set forth in Section 4.6. The terms and conditions applicable to Stock Options shall be as set forth in Section 4.7. The terms and conditions applicable to Other Equity-Based Awards shall be as set forth in Section 4.8.
Form of Awards
     (b) . The Committee shall designate whether an Annual Performance Bonus, Long-Term Performance Bonus, Restricted Stock Award or Other Equity-Based Award granted under the Plan is intended to constitute a Qualified Performance Award. Qualified Performance Awards under the Plan may be granted either separately, at the same time as other Awards designated as Qualified Performance Award, or at the same time as Awards that are not designated as Qualified Performance Awards; provided, however, that in no event may the payment of an Award that is not a Qualified Performance Award be contingent upon the failure to attain a specific level of
Qualified Performance Awards
 
performance on the Performance Measure(s) applicable to a Qualified Performance Award for the same Performance Cycle. In the event the Committee designates an Award as a Qualified Performance Award, any determinations of the Committee pertaining to Performance Measures and other terms and conditions of such Qualified Performance Award (other than a determination under Section 4.4(c)(ii), 4.5(c)(ii) or 4.6(b)(iii) to reduce the amount of an Award) shall be in writing and made within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period.
     4.4 . The Committee may grant Annual Performance Bonuses under the Plan only to such Employees as the Committee may from time to time select, in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine. An Annual Performance Bonus awarded under the Plan may, at the discretion of the Committee, be designated as a Qualified Performance Award. An Annual Performance Bonus that the Committee designates as a Qualified Performance Award shall be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d) below.
Annual Performance Bonuses
     (a) . Annual Performance Bonuses designated as Qualified Performance Awards shall be awarded in connection with a 12-month Performance Cycle, which shall be the fiscal year of the Company; provided, however, that the Committee may, in its discretion, establish a Performance Cycle of less than 12 months.
Performance Cycles
     (b) . Within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period, the Committee shall determine the Employees who shall be eligible to receive an Annual Performance Bonus designated as a Qualified Performance Award for such Performance Cycle.
Bonus Participants
     (c) .
Performance Measures; Targets; Payout Formula
     (i) For each Annual Performance Bonus designated as a Qualified Performance Award, the Committee shall fix and establish, in writing, within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period (A) the Performance Measure(s) that shall apply to such Annual Performance Bonus; (B) the target amount of such Annual Performance Bonus that shall be payable to each such Employee; and (C) subject to paragraph (g) below, the payout formula for computing the actual amount of such Annual Performance Bonus that shall become payable with respect to each level of attained performance. Towards this end, such payout formula shall, based on objective criteria, set forth for the applicable Performance Measure(s) the minimum level of performance that must be attained during the Performance Cycle before any such Annual Performance Bonus shall become payable and the percentage (which percentage may not exceed 200%) of the target amount of such Annual Performance Bonus that shall be payable to each such Employee upon attainment of various levels of performance that equal or exceed the minimum required level.
 
     (ii) Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph (c) to the contrary, the Committee may, on a case by case basis and in its sole discretion, reduce, but not increase, any Annual Performance Bonus designated as a Qualified Performance Award that is payable to any Employee with respect to any given Performance Cycle, , , that no such reduction shall result in an increase in the dollar amount of any such Annual Performance Bonus payable to any Key Employee.
provided
however
     (d) . No Annual Performance Bonus designated as a Qualified Performance Award shall be paid to a Key Employee under this Section 4.4 unless and until the Committee certifies in writing the level of attainment of the applicable Performance Measure(s) for the applicable Performance Cycle.
Payment of Bonuses; Certification
     (e) . Annual Performance Bonuses that are not Qualified Performance Awards shall be based on a Performance Cycle (which may be less than 12 months) and such Performance Measures and payout formulas (which may be the same as or different than those applicable to Annual Performance Bonuses that are designated as Qualified Performance Awards) as the Committee, in its discretion, may establish for such purposes.
Other Annual Performance Bonuses
     (f) . Annual Performance Bonuses shall be paid in cash.
Form of Payment
     (g) . The maximum amount that may be paid as an Annual Performance Bonus to any one Participant during any fiscal year of the Company shall not exceed $10,000,000.
Amount of Bonus
     4.5 . The Committee may grant Long-Term Performance Bonuses under the Plan only to such Employees as the Committee may from time to time select, in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine. A Long-Term Performance Bonus awarded under the Plan may, at the discretion of the Committee, be designated as a Qualified Performance Award. A Long-Term Performance Bonus that the Committee designates as a Qualified Performance Award shall be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d) below.
Long-Term Performance Bonuses
     (a) . Long-Term Performance Bonuses designated as Qualified Performance Awards shall be awarded in connection with a Performance Cycle, which shall be at least one fiscal year of the Company. The Committee shall determine the length of a Performance Cycle within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period. In the event that the Committee determines that a Performance Cycle shall be a period greater than one fiscal year, a new Long-Term Performance Bonus Award may be granted and designated as a Qualified Performance Award and a new Performance Cycle may commence prior to the completion of the Performance Cycle associated with the prior Long-Term Performance Bonus Award.
Performance Cycles
 
     (b) . Within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period, the Committee shall determine the Employees who shall be eligible to receive a Long-Term Performance Bonus designated as a Qualified Performance Award for such Performance Cycle.
Bonus Participants
     (c) .
Performance Measures; Targets; Payout Formula
     (i) For each Long-Term Performance Bonus designated as a Qualified Performance Award, the Committee shall fix and establish, in writing, within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period (A) the Performance Measure(s) that shall apply to such Performance Cycle; (B) the target amount of such Long-Term Performance Bonus that shall be payable to each such Employee; and (C) subject to paragraph (g) below, the payout formula for computing the actual amount of such Long-Term Performance Bonus that shall become payable with respect to each level of attained performance. Towards this end, such payout formula shall, based on objective criteria, set forth for the applicable Performance Measure(s) the minimum level of performance that must be attained during the Performance Cycle before any such Long-Term Performance Bonus shall become payable and the percentage (which percentage may not exceed 200%) of the target amount of such Long-Term Performance Bonus that shall be payable to each such Employee upon attainment of various levels of performance that equal or exceed the minimum required level.
     (ii) Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph (c) to the contrary, the Committee may, on a case by case basis and in its sole discretion, reduce, but not increase, any Long-Term Performance Bonus designated as a Qualified Performance Award that is payable to any Employee with respect to any given Performance Cycle, , , that no such reduction shall result in an increase in the dollar amount of any such Long-Term Performance Bonus payable to any Key Employee.
provided
however
     (d) . No Long-Term Performance Bonus designated as a Qualified Performance Award shall be paid to a Key Employee under this Section 4.5 unless and until the Committee certifies in writing the level of attainment of the applicable Performance Measure(s) for the applicable Performance Cycle.
Payment of Bonuses; Certification
     (e) . Long-Term Performance Bonuses that are not Qualified Performance Awards shall be based on such Performance Cycles, Performance Measures and payout formulas (which may be the same as or different than those applicable to Long Term Performance Bonuses that are designated as Qualified Performance Awards) as the Committee, in its discretion, may establish for such purposes.
Other Long-Term Performance Bonuses
     (f) . Long-Term Performance Bonuses may be either paid in cash or the value of the Award may be settled in Shares, Shares of
Form of Payment
 
Restricted Stock, Stock Options or other Awards or any combination of the foregoing in such proportions as the Committee may, in its discretion, determine. To the extent that a Long-Term Performance Bonus is paid in Shares of Restricted Stock, and/or Stock Options, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock payable and/or the number of Stock Options granted shall be based on the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant, subject to such reasonable Restricted Stock discount factors and/or Stock Option valuation methodology as the Committee may, in its discretion, apply. Any Shares of Restricted Stock or Awards granted in connection with a Long-Term Performance Bonus shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 4.6(e), (f) or 4.8, as applicable. Any Stock Options granted in payment of a Long-Term Performance Bonus shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 4.7(a), (b), (c), (d), (f) and (g).
     (g) . Subject to Section 4.6(f), the maximum amount that may be paid as a Long-Term Performance Bonus in the form of Restricted Stock to any one Participant during any fiscal year of the Company shall not exceed $20,000,000.
Amount of Bonus
     4.6 . The Committee may grant Restricted Stock under the Plan to such Employees as the Committee may from time to time select, in such amounts and subject to such terms, conditions and restrictions as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine. A Restricted Stock Award may, at the discretion of the Committee, be designated as a Qualified Performance Award. A Restricted Stock Award that the Committee designates as a Qualified Performance Award shall be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) below.
Restricted Stock
     (a) . A Restricted Stock Award designated as a Qualified Performance Award shall be awarded in connection with a Performance Cycle. Unless the Committee determines that some other period shall apply, the Performance Cycle shall be the fiscal year of the Company. In the event that the Committee determines that a Performance Cycle shall be a period greater than a 12-month period, a new Restricted Stock Award may be granted and designated as a Qualified Performance Award and a new Performance Cycle may commence prior to the completion of the Performance Cycle associated with the prior Restricted Stock Award.
Performance Cycles
     (b) .
Performance Measures; Targets and Payout Formulas
     (i) Within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period, the Committee shall determine the Employees who shall be eligible to receive a Restricted Stock Award designated as a Qualified Performance Award for such Performance Cycle and shall establish, in writing, the Performance Measure(s) that shall apply for such Performance Cycle.
     (ii) For each Restricted Stock Award designated as a Qualified Performance Award, the Committee shall establish, in writing, within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period (A) a target amount of
 
Restricted Stock that shall be payable to each such Employee and (B) subject to paragraph (f) below, a payout formula for computing the actual amount of Restricted Stock that shall become payable with respect to each level of attained performance. Towards this end, such payout formula shall, based on objective criteria, set forth for the applicable Performance Measure the minimum level of performance that must be attained during the Performance Cycle before any such Restricted Stock shall become payable and the percentage (which percentage may not exceed 200%) of the target amount of Restricted Stock that shall be payable to each such Employee upon attainment of various levels of performance that equal or exceed the minimum required level.
     (iii) The actual amount of Restricted Stock that shall be paid to each such Employee for any given Performance Cycle under a Restricted Stock Award designated as a Qualified Performance Award shall be determined based on such Employee's target Restricted Stock Award, the actual level of achievement of the Performance Measure(s) and the payout formula determined by the Committee pursuant to this paragraph (b) for such Performance Cycle. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, on a case by case basis and in its sole discretion, reduce, but not increase, the actual amount of any Restricted Stock Award designated as a Qualified Performance Award that is payable to any Employee with respect to any given Performance Cycle, , , that no such reduction shall result in an increase in the amount of such Restricted Stock Award payable to any Key Employee.
provided
however
     (c) . No Shares of Restricted Stock payable under a Restricted Stock Award designated as a Qualified Performance Award shall be paid to a Key Employee under this Section 4.6 unless and until the Committee certifies in writing the level of attainment of the applicable Performance Measure(s) for the applicable Performance Cycle.
Committee Certification
     (d) . Restricted Stock Awards that are not Qualified Performance Awards shall be subject to such provisions as the Committee may, in its discretion, determine, and may be granted at any time; provided, however, that to the extent that the Committee determines that a Restricted Stock Award that is not a Qualified Performance Award shall be performance-based, such Restricted Stock Award shall be awarded in connection with a Performance Cycle, applying such Performance Measures and payout formulas (which may be the same as or different than those applicable to Restricted Stock Awards designated as Qualified Performance Awards) as the Committee, in its discretion, may establish for such purposes.
Other Restricted Stock Awards
     (e) . As soon as practicable after Restricted Stock has been awarded, a certificate or certificates for all such Shares of Restricted Stock shall be registered in the name of the Participant and, at the discretion of the Company, be either (i) delivered to the Participant or (ii) held for
Payment of Restricted Stock
 
the Participant by the Company. The Participant shall thereupon have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to such Shares, including the right to vote and receive dividends or other distributions made or paid with respect to such Shares, except that such Shares shall be subject to the vesting and forfeiture provisions of paragraph (e)(i) below. The Committee may, in its discretion, impose such restrictions on Restricted Stock as it deems appropriate. Except as the Committee may otherwise determine, and subject to the Committee's authority under Section 3.2, such Shares shall be subject to the following vesting provisions:
     (i) . Shares of Restricted Stock that have not yet vested shall be forfeited by a Participant upon the Participant's Termination of Employment for any reason other than death or Disability. Shares of Restricted Stock shall vest in approximately equal annual installments over a threeyear period after the end of the applicable Performance Cycle (or date of grant, in the case of Awards that are not Qualified Performance Awards).
Vesting and Forfeiture
     (ii) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Shares of Restricted Stock shall immediately vest upon a Change in Control or upon the death or Disability of the Participant.
Acceleration of Vesting
     (iii) . In order to enforce any restrictions that the Committee may impose on Restricted Stock, the Committee shall cause a legend or legends setting forth a specific reference to such restrictions to be placed on all certificates for Shares of Restricted Stock. As restrictions are released, a new certificate, without the legend, for the number of Shares with respect to which restrictions have been released shall be issued and delivered to the Participant as soon as possible thereafter.
Legend
     (f) . The maximum aggregate number of Shares of Restricted Stock that may be issued to any one Participant under Section 4.5 and this Section 4.6 during any fiscal year of the Company shall not exceed 1,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.3.
Amount of Restricted Stock
     4.7 . Stock Options granted under the Plan may, at the discretion of the Committee, be in the form of either Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options or a combination of the two, subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph (e) below. Where both a Nonqualified Stock Option and an Incentive Stock Option are granted to a Participant at the same time, such Awards shall be deemed to have been granted in separate grants, shall be clearly identified, and in no event will the exercise of one such Award affect the right to exercise the other Award. Unless otherwise specified, a Stock Option shall be a Non-Qualified Stock Option. Except as the Committee may otherwise determine, and subject to the Committee's authority under Section 3.2, Stock Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Stock Options
     (a) . The Committee may grant Stock Options to a Participant in such amounts as the Committee may determine, subject to the
Amount of Shares
 
limitations set forth in Section 5.1 of the Plan. The number of Shares subject to a Stock Option shall be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
     (b) . Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be Fair Market Value Stock Options. The Exercise Price of a Stock Option, as determined by the Committee pursuant to this Section 4.7(b), shall be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
Exercise Price
     (c) . Except as provided in Section 4.7(g), all Stock Options granted under the Plan shall lapse no later than the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
Option Term
     (d) . Except as may otherwise be provided in the Award Agreement or as the Committee may otherwise determine, and subject to the Committee's authority under Section 3.2 to accelerate the vesting of an Award and to waive or amend any terms, conditions, limitations or restrictions of an Award, each Stock Option granted under the Plan shall be exercisable in whole or in part, subject to the following conditions, limitations and restrictions:
Timing of Exercise
     (i) 34% of the Shares subject to a Stock Option shall first become exercisable on the one-year anniversary of the date of grant, 33% shall first become exercisable on the two-year anniversary of the date of grant and the remainder shall first become exercisable on the three-year anniversary of the date of grant;
     (ii) All Stock Options subject to the Award shall become immediately exercisable upon a Change in Control;
     (iii) All Stock Options granted to a Participant shall become immediately exercisable upon the death or Disability of the Participant and must be exercised, if at all, within one year after such Participant's death or Disability, but in no event after the date such Stock Options would otherwise lapse. Stock Options of a deceased Participant may be exercised only by the estate of the Participant or by the person given authority to exercise such Stock Options by the Participant's will or by operation of law. In the event a Stock Option is exercised by the executor or administrator of a deceased Participant, or by the person or persons to whom the Stock Option has been transferred by the Participant's will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Company shall be under no obligation to deliver Shares thereunder unless and until the Company is satisfied that the person or persons exercising the Stock Option is or are the duly appointed executor(s) or administrator(s) of the deceased Participant or the person to whom the Stock Option has been transferred by the Participant's will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution;
 
     (iv) Upon an Employee's Retirement, all Stock Options that have not become exercisable as of the date of Retirement shall be forfeited and to the extent that Stock Options have become exercisable as of such date, such Stock Options must be exercised, if at all, within one year after Retirement, but in no event after the date such Stock Options would otherwise lapse; and
     (v) Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.7(g) or Section 7.5, upon an Employee's Termination of Employment, or a Consultant's Termination of Consultancy, for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, all Stock Options that have not become exercisable as of the date of termination shall be forfeited and to the extent that Stock Options have become exercisable as of such date, such Stock Options must be exercised, if at all, within 90 days after such Termination of Employment or Termination of Consultancy.
     (e) . The Exercise Price shall be paid in full when the Stock Option is exercised and stock certificates shall be registered and delivered only upon receipt of such payment. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, payment of the Exercise Price may be made in cash or by certified check, bank draft, wire transfer, or postal or express money order or any other form of consideration approved by the Committee. In addition, at the discretion of the Committee, payment of all or a portion of the Exercise Price may be made by
Payment of Exercise Price
     (i) Delivering a properly executed exercise notice to the Company, or its agent, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale proceeds with respect to the portion of the Shares to be acquired upon exercise having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the sum of the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid and appropriate tax withholding;
     (ii) Tendering (actually or by attestation) to the Company previously acquired Shares that have been held by the Participant for at least six months having a Fair Market Value on the day prior to the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid; or
     (iii) any combination of the foregoing.
     (f) . Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be subject to the following additional conditions, limitations and restrictions:
Incentive Stock Options
     (i) . Incentive Stock Options may only be granted to Employees of the Company or a Related Company that is a subsidiary or
Eligibility
 
parent corporation, within the meaning of Code Section 424, of the Company (an ""). In no event may an Incentive Stock Option be granted to an Employee who owns stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or such Related Company or to a Consultant.
ISO Related Company
     (ii) . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted under the Plan after the 10-year anniversary of the date the Plan is adopted by the Board.
Timing of Grant
     (iii) . The aggregate Fair Market Value on the date of grant of the Shares with respect to which such Incentive Stock Options first become exercisable during any calendar year under the terms of the Plan for any Participant may not exceed $100,000 (or such other limit as may be specified in the Code). For purposes of this $100,000 limit, the Participant's Incentive Stock Options under this Plan and all Plan's maintained by the Company and an ISO Related Company shall be aggregated. To the extent any Incentive Stock Option first becomes exercisable in a calendar year and such limit would be exceeded, such Incentive Stock Option shall thereafter be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option for all purposes.
Amount of Award
     (iv) . In the event that the Committee exercises its discretion to permit an Incentive Stock Option to be exercised by a Participant more than 90 days after the Participant's Termination of Employment and such exercise occurs more than three months after such Participant has ceased being an Employee (or more than 12 months after the Participant is Disabled or dies), such Incentive Stock Option shall thereafter be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option for all purposes.
Timing of Exercise
     (v) . In no event shall the Committee permit an Incentive Stock Option to be transferred by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and any Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable, during his or her lifetime, only by the Participant.
Transfer Restrictions
      .
(g)
Extension of Stock Option Term for Blackouts
At its discretion, the Committee may extend the term of any Stock Option beyond its earlier termination pursuant to Section 4.7(c), (d)(iii), (iv) or (v) if the Company had prohibited the participant from exercising the option prior to termination or expiration in order to comply with applicable Federal, state, local or foreign law, provided that such extension may not exceed 30 days from the date such prohibition is lifted.
     4.8 . The Committee may, from time to time, grant Awards (other than Performance Bonuses, Restricted Stock or Stock Options) under
Other Equity-Based Awards
 
this Section 4.8 that consist of, or are denominated in, payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares to any Employee or Consultant. These Awards may include, among other things Shares, restricted stock options, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights (SARs) (which shall lapse no later than the tenth anniversary of the grant date, subject to extension consistent with Section 4.7(g)), phantom or hypothetical Shares and Share units. The Committee shall determine, in its discretion, the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations, if any, that shall apply to Awards granted pursuant to this Section 4.8, including whether dividend equivalents shall be credited or paid with respect to any Award, which terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations shall be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement; provided, however, that in no event will the exercise price of an SAR with respect to any Share be less than the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date of grant.
     Other Equity Based Awards under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be designated as Qualified Performance Awards. In the event the Committee designates an Other Equity-Based Award as a Qualified Performance Award, the Committee shall condition the grant of such Other Equity-Based Award on the attainment during a Performance Cycle of specified levels of performance of one or more Performance Measures. The Performance Cycle, Performance Measure(s) and payout schedules applicable to Other Equity-Based Awards that are designated as Qualified Performance Awards shall be determined by the Committee at such time and in the manner as set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.6. In such case, no Other Equity-Based Award designated as a Qualified Performance Award shall be paid to a Key Employee under this Section 4.8 unless and until the Committee certifies in writing the level of attainment of the applicable Performance Measure(s) for the applicable Performance Cycle.
     4.9 ). It is the intent of the Company that Qualified Performance Awards granted to Key Employees under the Plan satisfy the applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder so that the Company's tax deduction for Qualified Performance Awards is not disallowed in whole or in part by operation of Code Section 162(m). If any provision of this Plan pertaining to Qualified Performance Awards, or any Award to a Key Employee under the Plan that the Committee designates as a Qualified Performance Award, would otherwise frustrate or conflict with such intent, that provision or Award shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid such conflict.
Code Section 162(m
     4.10 . Repricing of Options or SARs shall not be permitted without stockholder approval. For this purpose, a "repricing" means any of the following (or any other action that has the same effect as any of the following): (A) changing the terms of an Option or SAR to lower its Exercise Price (other than pursuant to Section 5.3); (B) any other action that is treated as a "repricing" under generally accepted accounting principles; and (C) repurchasing for cash or canceling an Option or SAR at a time when its Exercise Price is greater than the Fair Market Value of the underlying stock in exchange for another Award, unless the cancellation and exchange occurs in connection with an event set forth in Section 5.3. Such cancellation and exchange would be considered a "repricing" regardless of whether it is treated as a "repricing" under
No Repricing
 
generally accepted accounting principles and regardless of whether it is voluntary on the part of the Participant.
     5.1 . The Shares issuable under the Plan shall be authorized but unissued Shares or Shares held in the Company's treasury. Subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 5.3, the total number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be issued under the Plan may equal but shall not exceed in the aggregate 30,000,000 Shares; provided, however, that from the aggregate limit no more than 10,000,000 Shares may be granted in the form of Incentive Stock Options and the maximum aggregate number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted to any one Participant during any such fiscal year of the Company may not exceed 3,000,000 Shares. Any Shares (a) delivered by the Company, (b) with respect to which Awards are made hereunder and (c) with respect to which the Company becomes obligated to make Awards, in each case through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by an acquired entity, shall not count against the Shares available to be delivered pursuant to Awards under this Plan.
Shares Available
     5.2 . For purposes of determining the number of Shares remaining available under the Plan, only Awards payable in Shares shall be counted. Any Shares related to Awards, which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation or otherwise without issuance of Shares, or are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, shall be available again for issuance under the Plan. In the event Shares are tendered or withheld in payment of all or part of the Exercise Price of a Stock Option, or in satisfaction of the withholding obligations of any Award, the Shares so tendered or withheld shall become available for issuance under the Plan. An outstanding stock appreciation right shall not be taken into account in determining the aggregate number of Shares with respect to which Stock Options may thereafter be granted. With respect to stock appreciation rights (SARs), when a SAR is exercised and settled in whole or in part in Shares, the Shares subject to a SAR grant agreement shall be counted against the Shares available for issuance as one (1) Share for every Share subject thereto, regardless of the number of Shares used to settle the SAR upon exercise.
Counting Rules
     5.3 . In the event of any change in the number of issued Shares (or issuance of shares of stock other than shares of Common Stock) by reason of any stock split, reverse stock split, or stock dividend, recapitalization, reclassification, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, reorganization, combination, or exchange of Shares, the exercisability of stock purchase rights received under the Rights Agreement, the issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities, or any other change in corporate structure or in the event of any extraordinary distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or other property), the Committee
Adjustments
 
shall adjust the number or kind of Shares that may be issued under the Plan, and the terms of any outstanding Award (including, without limitation, the number of Shares subject to an outstanding Award, the type of property to which the Award relates and the Exercise Price of a Stock Option, stock appreciation right or other Award) in such manner as the Committee shall determine is appropriate in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, and such adjustment shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustments shall be made with respect to Qualified Performance Awards granted to a Key Employee to the extent such adjustment would cause the Award to fail to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and no adjustment shall be required if the Committee determines that such action could cause an Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A of the Code ("") or otherwise could subject a Participant to the additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of an outstanding Award.
Section 409A
     5.4 . Upon the occurrence of (i) a merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, reorganization or otherwise involving the Company in which the Company is not to be the surviving corporation, (ii) a merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, reorganization or otherwise involving the Company in which the Company is the surviving corporation but holders of Shares receive securities of another corporation, or (iii) a sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (as an entirety) or capital stock to another person, any Award granted hereunder shall be deemed to apply to the securities, cash or other property (subject to adjustment by cash payment in lieu of fractional interests) to which a holder of the number of Shares equal to the number of Shares the Participant would have been entitled, and proper provisions shall be made to ensure that this clause is a condition to any such transaction; , , that the Committee (or, if applicable, the board of directors of the entity assuming the Company's obligations under the Plan) shall, in its discretion, have the power to either:
Consolidation, Merger or Sale of Assets
provided
however
     (a) provide, upon written notice to Participants, that all Awards that are currently exercisable must be exercised within the time period specified in the notice and that all Awards not exercised as of the expiration of such period shall be terminated without consideration; , , that the Committee (or successor board of directors) may provide, in its discretion, that, for purposes of this subsection, all outstanding Awards are currently exercisable, whether or not vested; or
provided
however
     (b) cancel any or all Awards and, in consideration of such cancellation, pay to each Participant an amount in cash with respect to each Share issuable under an Award equal to the difference between the Fair Market Value of such Share on such date (or, if greater, the value per Share of the consideration received by holders of Shares as a result of such merger, consolidation, reorganization or sale) and the Exercise Price.
 
     5.5 . No fractional Shares shall be issued under the Plan. In the event that a Participant acquires the right to receive a fractional Share under the Plan, such Participant shall receive, in lieu of such fractional Share, cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the fractional Share as of the date of settlement.
Fractional Shares
     6.1 . The Plan may be amended at any time and from time to time by the Board without the approval of shareholders of the Company, except that no amendment which increases the aggregate number of Shares which may be issued pursuant to the Plan, decreases the Exercise Price at which Stock Options or stock appreciation rights may be granted or materially modifies the eligibility requirements for participation in the Plan shall be effective unless and until the same is approved by the shareholders of the Company. No amendment of the Plan shall materially adversely affect any right of any Participant with respect to any Award theretofore granted without such Participant's written consent.
Amendment
     6.2 . The Plan shall terminate upon the earlier of the following dates or events to occur:
Termination
     (a) the adoption of a resolution of the Board terminating the Plan; or
     (b) the 10-year anniversary of the date of the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
     No Awards shall be granted under this Plan after it has been terminated. However, the termination of the Plan shall not alter or impair any of the rights or obligations of any person, without such person's consent, under any Award theretofore granted under the Plan. After the termination of the Plan, any previously granted Awards shall remain in effect and shall continue to be governed by the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.
     7.1 . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7.1, no Awards under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to alienation, anticipation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or transfer, other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution, by the Participant and no other persons shall otherwise acquire any rights therein. During the lifetime of a Participant, Stock Options (except for Nonqualified Stock Options that are transferable pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b)
Nontransferability of Awards
 
below) shall be exercisable only by the Participant and shall not be assignable or transferable except as provided above.
     (a) In the case of a Nonqualified Stock Option, except as the Committee may otherwise determine, and subject to the Committee's authority under Section 3.2 to waive or amend any terms, conditions, limitations or restrictions of an Award, all or any part of such Nonqualified Stock Option may, subject to the prior written consent of the Committee, be transferred to one or more of a following classes of donees: family member, a trust for the benefit of a family member, a limited partnership whose partners are solely family members or any other legal entity set up for the benefit of family members. For purposes of this Section 7.1, a family member means a Participant's spouse, children, grandchildren, parents, grandparents (natural, step, adopted, or in-laws), siblings, nieces, nephews and grandnieces and grandnephews.
     (b) Except as the Committee may at any time determine, and subject to the Committee's authority under Section 3.2 to waive or amend any terms, conditions, limitations or restrictions of an Award, any Nonqualified Stock Option transferred by a Participant pursuant to paragraph (a) above may be exercised by the transferee only to the extent such Nonqualified Stock Option would have been exercisable by the Participant had no transfer occurred. Any such transferred Nonqualified Stock Option shall be subject to all of the same terms and conditions as provided in the Plan and in the applicable Award Agreement. The Participant or the Participant's estate shall remain liable for any withholding tax which may be imposed by any federal, state or local tax authority and the transfer of Shares upon exercise of such Nonqualified Stock Option shall be conditioned on the payment of such withholding tax. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, withhold its consent to all or a part of any transfer of a Nonqualified Stock Option pursuant to this Section 7.1 unless and until the Participant makes arrangements satisfactory to the Committee for the payment of any such withholding tax. The Participant must immediately notify the Committee, in such form and manner as required by the Committee, of any proposed transfer of a Nonqualified Stock Option pursuant to this Section and no such transfer shall be effective until the Committee consents thereto in writing.
     (c) Anything in this Section 7.1 to the contrary notwithstanding, in no event may the Committee permit an Incentive Stock Option to be transferred by any Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
     7.2 .
Withholding of Taxes
          (a) . As a condition to the delivery of any Shares pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Option, the Committee may require that the Participant, at the time of such exercise, pay to the Company by cash or by certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or postal or express money order an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations. The Committee may, however, in its discretion, accept payment of tax withholding
Stock Options
 
obligations through any of the Exercise Price payment methods described in Section 4.7(e). In addition, the Committee may, in its discretion, permit payment of tax withholding obligations to be made by instructing the Company to withhold Shares that would otherwise be issued on exercise having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the tax withholding obligations being so paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may any amount greater than the minimum statutory withholding obligation or such other withholding obligation as required by applicable law be satisfied by tendering or withholding Shares.
          (b) . The Company shall satisfy tax withholding obligations arising in connection with the release of restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units held by Participants subject to the tax laws of the United States, United Kingdom or Israel (and such other country where withholding is required at the time of the release of restrictions or as may be determined by the Company from time to time) by withholding Shares that would otherwise be available for delivery upon such release having a Fair Market Value on the date of release equal to the minimum statutory withholding obligation or such other withholding obligation as required by applicable law.
Restricted Stock
          (c) . To the extent not covered by 7.2(a) or (b) above, as a condition to the delivery of any Shares, other property or cash pursuant to any Award or the lifting or lapse of restrictions on any Award, or in connection with any other event that gives rise to a federal or other governmental tax withholding obligation on the part of the Company relating to an Award (including, without limitation, FICA tax), (a) the Company may deduct or withhold (or cause to be deducted or withheld) from any payment or distribution to the Participant, whether or not pursuant to the Plan, (b) the Company shall be entitled to require that the Participant remit cash to the Company (through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (c) the Company may enter into any other suitable arrangements to withhold, in each case in an amount sufficient in the opinion of the Company to satisfy such withholding obligation.
Awards
     7.3
Non-Uniform Determinations
     None of Committee's determinations under the Plan and Award Agreements need to be uniform and any such determinations may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards under the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations under Award Agreements, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Award Agreements, as to (a) the persons to receive Awards, (b) the terms and provisions of Awards, (c) whether a Participant's employment has been terminated for purposes of the Plan and (d) any adjustments to be made to Awards pursuant to Section 5.3 or otherwise
     7.4
Required Consents and Legend
 
     (a) If the Committee shall at any time determine that any consent (as hereinafter defined) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any Award, the delivery of Shares or the delivery of any cash, securities or other property under the Plan, or the taking of any other action thereunder (each such action being hereinafter referred to as a "plan action"), then such plan action shall not be taken, in whole or in part, unless and until such consent shall have been effected or obtained to the full satisfaction of the Committee. The Committee may direct that any Certificate evidencing Shares delivered pursuant to the Plan shall bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on transferability as the Committee may determine to be necessary or desirable, and may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended shares. By accepting an Award, each Participant shall have expressly provided consent to the items described in Section 7.4(b)(iv) hereof.
     (b) The term "consent" as used herein with respect to any plan action includes (i) any and all listings, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange or under any federal, state or local law, or law, rule or regulation of a jurisdiction outside the United States, (ii) any and all written agreements and representations by the Participant with respect to the disposition of shares, or with respect to any other matter, which the Committee may deem necessary or desirable to comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification or to obtain an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration be made, (iii) any and all other consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a plan action by any governmental or other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory agency, (iv) any and all consents by the Participant to (A) the Company's supplying to any third party recordkeeper of the Plan such personal information as the Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, (B) the Company's deducting amounts from the Participant's wages, or another arrangement satisfactory to the Committee, to reimburse the Company for advances made on the Participant's behalf to satisfy certain withholding and other tax obligations in connection with an Award and (C) the Company's imposing sales and transfer procedures and restrictions and hedging restrictions on Shares delivered under the Plan and (v) any and all consents or authorizations required to comply with, or required to be obtained under, applicable local law or otherwise required by the Committee. Nothing herein shall require the Company to list, register or qualify the Shares on any securities exchange
     7.5 . If the Committee, in its discretion, determines and the applicable Award Agreement so provides, a Participant who, without prior written approval of the Company, enters into any employment or consultation arrangement (including service as an agent, partner, stockholder, consultant, officer or director) to any entity or person engaged in any business in which the Company or its affiliates is engaged which, in the sole judgment of the Company, is competitive with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate, (i) shall forfeit all rights under any outstanding Stock Option or stock appreciation right and shall return to the Company the amount of any profit realized upon the exercise, within such period as the Committee may determine, of any Stock Option or stock appreciation right and (ii) shall forfeit and return to the Company all Shares of Restricted Stock and other Awards which are not then
Special Forfeiture Provision
 
vested or which vested but remain subject to the restrictions imposed by this Section 7.3, as provided in the Award Agreement.
     7.6 . Neither the Company, any Related Company, nor the Committee shall have any responsibility in connection with a Participant's election, or attempt to elect, under Code section 83(b) to include the value of a Restricted Stock Award in the Participant's gross income for the year of payment. Any Participant who makes a Code section 83(b) election with respect to any such Award shall promptly notify the Committee of such election and provide the Committee with a copy thereof.
Code Section 83(b) Elections
     7.7 . The establishment and subsequent operation of the Plan, including eligibility as a Participant, shall not be construed as conferring any legal or other right upon any Employee for the continuation of his or her employment, or upon any Consultant for the continuation of his or her consultancy, for any Performance Cycle or any other period. The Company expressly reserves the right, which may be exercised at any time and without regard to when, during a Performance Cycle or other accounting period, such exercise occurs, to discharge any individual and/or treat him or her without regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him or her under any outstanding Award.
No Implied Rights
     7.8 . The granting of a Stock Option shall impose no obligation upon the Participant to exercise such Stock Option.
No Obligation to Exercise Options
     7.9 . A Participant granted an Award under the Plan shall have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to such Award unless and until such time as certificates for the Shares underlying the Award are registered in such Participant's name. The right of any Participant to receive Shares by virtue of the terms of an Award or participation in the Plan shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company. With respect to any or all Awards, the Company may, in lieu of physical certificates, cause for electronic shares to be held in the Participant's name with a transfer agent or broker.
No Rights as Stockholders
     7.10 . The Company shall indemnify, to the full extent permitted by law, each person made or threatened to be made a party to any civil or criminal action or proceeding by reason of the fact that he, or his testator or intestate, is or was a member of the Committee or a delegate of the Committee so acting.
Indemnification of Committee
     7.11 . Neither the Company nor any Related Company shall be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by Awards granted pursuant to the Plan.
No Required Segregation of Assets
     7.12 . All Awards made pursuant to the Plan are in consideration of services for the Company or the Related Companies. Any gain realized pursuant to Awards under the Plan constitutes a special incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be taken into account as compensation for purposes of any of the
Nature of Payments
 
employee benefit plans of the Company or any Related Company except as may be determined by the Board or by the board of directors of the applicable Related Company.
     7.13 . Awards under the Plan are intended to satisfy the requirements of Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. If any provision or this Plan or of any grant of an Award would otherwise frustrate or conflict with such intent, that provision shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid such conflict.
Securities Exchange Act Compliance
     7.14 . The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by the internal substantive laws, and not the choice of law rules, of the State of New York and construed accordingly, to the extent not superseded by applicable federal law. If any provision of the Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, the unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of the Plan or part thereof, each of which shall remain in full force and effect.
Governing Law; Severability

 
Exhibit 10.2
Grant Number Total Number of Shares Underlying Restricted Stock Unit Award Grant Date
This Agreement confirms the grant under the CA, Inc. 2007 Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to the above-named participant of the number of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. This Agreement does not constitute ownership of any shares of Common Stock of CA, Inc. (the "Company") or confer any rights associated with the ownership of shares, except as expressly set forth herein. This grant is subject in all respects to the applicable terms of the Plan. This Agreement incorporates by reference the terms of the Plan [(including without limitation, Section 7.5 of the Plan, such that the participant may be subject to the forfeiture of the unvested portion of this Restricted Stock Unit award and must return any vested shares already delivered pursuant to this Agreement in certain circumstances described in that Section),] and is subject to the provisions thereof. A copy of the Plan (or related Prospectus delivered to you with this Agreement) may be obtained at no cost by contacting the HR Service Center at 1-866-514-4772 or opening an issue via the web at http://caportal.ca.com (via Employee Self-Service  ESS). If you are located outside of North America, please contact your local Human Resources Representative.
This award will vest [INSERT VESTING SCHEDULE] on [INSERT VESTING DATE(S)]. No shares of Common stock shall be issued to the participant prior to the date on which the Restricted Stock Units vest, and shall be forfeited by the participant upon the participant's Termination of Employment, as defined in the Plan, prior to vesting for any reason other than death or Disability, as defined in the Plan. All shares of restricted stock units will immediately vest upon the participant's death or Disability or upon a Change in Control of the Company.
If the participant has an employment agreement with CA, Inc. which contains different or additional provisions relating to vesting of restricted stock unit awards, or otherwise conflicts with the terms of this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, the provisions of the employment agreement shall govern and be incorporated herein by reference.
Where required pursuant to the terms of the Plan, the Company will satisfy any federal income tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units by withholding shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be available for delivery upon the vesting of this award having a Fair Market Value, as defined in the Plan, on the date the shares of Restricted Stock Units first become taxable equal to the minimum statutory withholding obligation or such other withholding obligation as required by applicable law with respect to such taxable shares. In other cases, as a condition to the delivery of Shares or the lapse of restrictions related to this Restricted Stock Unit, or in connection with any other event that gives rise to a tax withholding obligation, the Company (i) may deduct or withhold from any payment or distribution to the Participant (whether or not pursuant to the Plan), (ii) will be entitled to require that the Participant remit cash to the Company (through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (iii) may enter into any other suitable arrangements to withhold, in each case, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such withholding obligation.
 

 
Exhibit 10.3
Grant Number Total Number of Shares Underlying Restricted Stock Award Grant Date
This Agreement confirms the grant under the CA, Inc. 2007 Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to the above-named participant of the number of Restricted Stock set forth above. This Agreement merely evidences such grant, and does not constitute property of any nature or type or confer any additional rights. This grant is subject in all respects to the applicable terms of the Plan. This Agreement incorporates by reference the terms of the Plan [(including without limitation, Section 7.5 of the Plan, such that the participant may be subject to the forfeiture of the unvested portion of this Restricted Stock award and must return any vested shares already delivered pursuant to this Agreement in certain circumstances described in that Section),] and is subject to the provisions thereof. A copy of the Plan (or related Prospectus delivered to you with this Agreement) may be obtained at no cost by contacting the HR Service Center at 1-866-514-4772 or opening an issue via the web at http://caportal.ca.com (via Employee Self-Service  ESS). If you are located outside of North America, please contact your local Human Resources Representative.
This Restricted Stock award will vest [INSERT VESTING SCHEDULE] on [INSERT VESTING DATE(S)]. Shares of Restricted Stock that are included in this award may not be transferred by the participant prior to vesting and shall be forfeited by the participant upon the participant's Termination of Employment, as defined in the Plan, prior to vesting for any reason other than death or Disability, as defined in the Plan. All shares of Restricted Stock will immediately vest upon a Change in Control.
If the participant has an employment agreement with CA, Inc. which contains different or additional provisions relating to vesting of restricted stock awards, or otherwise conflicts with the terms of this Restricted Stock Award Agreement, the provisions of the employment agreement shall govern and be incorporated herein by reference.
Where required pursuant to the terms of the Plan, the Company will satisfy any federal income tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the vesting of the Restricted Stock (or in connection with an election by the participant under section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, 1986, as amended, with respect to the Restricted Stock, if applicable) by withholding shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be available for delivery upon the vesting of this award having a Fair Market Value, as defined in the Plan, on the date the shares of Restricted Stock first become taxable equal to the minimum statutory withholding obligation or such other withholding obligation as required by applicable law with respect to such taxable shares. In other cases, as a condition to the delivery of Shares or the lapse of restrictions
 
related to this Restricted Stock Award, or in connection with any other event that gives rise to a tax withholding obligation, the Company (i) may deduct or withhold from any payment or distribution to the Participant (whether or not pursuant to the Plan), (ii) will be entitled to require that the Participant remit cash to the Company (through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (iii) may enter into any other suitable arrangements to withhold, in each case, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such withholding obligation.

 
Exhibit 10.4
NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION granted by CA, Inc., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") to the above-named option holder (the "Optionee"), an employee or consultant of the Company or one of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the CA, Inc. 2007 Incentive Plan (the "Plan") the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference and which, in the event of any conflict, shall control over the terms contained herein. A copy of the Plan (or related Prospectus delivered to you with this Agreement) may be obtained at no cost by contacting the HR Service Center at 1-866-514-4772 or opening an issue via the web at http://caportal.ca.com (via Employee Self-Service  ESS). If you are located outside of North America, please contact your local Human Resources Representative.
1. Grant and Vesting Option
Subject to the vesting schedule below, the Company hereby grants to the Optionee an option to purchase on the terms herein provided a total of the number of shares of common stock, $.10 par value, of the Company set forth above, at an exercise price per share as set forth above.
This option may be exercised only with respect to the portion thereof that is vested. The Optionee's right to exercise this option shall become vested according to the following vesting schedule:
Vested rights shall be calculated only in terms of full years (for example, from one anniversary date to the next) and no partial vesting credit shall be given for partial years of employment.
This option shall expire and shall not be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date it is granted.
2. Stock to be Delivered
Stock to be delivered upon the exercise of this option may constitute an original issue of authorized stock or may consist of treasury stock.
3. Exercise of Option
Each election to exercise this option shall be made, by delivering to the Company or its agent a properly executed exercise notice, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds with respect to the portion of shares to be acquired upon exercise. Exercise of this option will not be permitted if the Company determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that issuance of shares at that time could violate any law or regulation.
In the event an option is exercised by the executor or administrator of a deceased Optionee, or by the person or persons to whom the option has been transferred by the Optionee's will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Company shall be under no obligation to deliver stock there under unless and until the Company is satisfied that the person or persons exercising the option is or are the duly
 
appointed executor(s) or administrator(s) of the deceased Optionee or the person to whom the option has been transferred by the Optionee's will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
4. Payment for and Delivery of Stock
Payment in full by cash, certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or postal or express money order may be made for all shares for which this option is exercised at the time of such exercise, and no shares shall be delivered until such payment is made.
Alternatively, payment may be made by (i) delivering to the Company a properly executed exercise notice, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds with respect to the portion of the shares to be acquired upon exercise having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the sum of the applicable portion of the exercise price being so paid and appropriate tax withholding, (ii) tendering to the Company (by physical delivery or by attestation) certificates representing shares of outstanding common stock, par value $.10, of the Company that have been held by the Optionee for at least six months prior to exercise, having a Fair Market Value on the day prior to the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the exercise price being so paid, together with stock powers duly executed and with signature guaranteed; or (iii) any combination of the foregoing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a form of payment will not be available if the Company determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that such form of payment could violate any law or regulation.
The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any stock unless and until (i) satisfactory arrangements have been made with the Company for the payment of any applicable tax withholding obligations, (ii) all applicable federal and state laws and regulations have been complied with, (iii) in the event the outstanding common stock is at the time listed upon any stock exchange, the             shares to be delivered have been listed, or authorized to be listed upon official notice of issuance upon the exchanges where it is listed, and (iv) all legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of the shares have been approved by counsel of the Company. The Optionee shall have no rights of a stockholder until the stock is actually delivered to him. Further, the Optionee acknowledges and consents that, pursuant to the Plan, if the Compensation and Human Resource Committee determines that any consent (as defined in the Plan) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with the grant of this option, delivery of shares or other property or the taking of any other action, then such action will not be taken unless and until such consent is effected or obtained to the Compensation and Human Resource Committee's satisfaction.
5. Recovery and Reimbursement of Option Gain
The Company shall have the right to recover, or receive reimbursement for, any compensation or profit realized by the exercise of this option or by the disposition of any option shares to the extent that the Company has such a right of recovery or reimbursement under applicable securities laws.
6. Transferability of Options
Except as provided below, this option may not be transferred by the Optionee otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and during the Optionee's lifetime this option may be exercised only by the Optionee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this option may be transferred by the Optionee to members of his or her immediate family or to one or more trusts for the benefit of such family members or to one or more partnerships in which such family members are the only partners provided that (i) the optionee does not receive any consideration for such transfer, (ii) written notice of any proposed transfer and the details thereof shall have been furnished to the Compensation and Human Resource Committee at least three (3) days in advance of such transfer, and (iii) the Compensation and Human Resource Committee consents to the transfer in writing. Options transferred pursuant to this provision will continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions that were applicable to such options immediately prior to transfer and the option may be exercised by the transferee only to the same extent that the option could have been exercised by the Optionee had no transfer been made. For this purpose, the Optionee's "family members" shall include the Optionee's spouse, children, grandchildren, parents, grandparents (whether natural step, adopted or in-laws) siblings, nieces, nephews and grandnieces and grand nephews.
7. Termination of Employment or Consultancy
Upon termination of employment or consultancy, other than termination of employment or consultancy by reason of (i) Retirement, as defined in the Plan , (ii) disability, or (iii) death, any portion of this option that has not become vested as of the date of termination shall immediately terminate and any portion of this option that has already vested as of such date shall terminate ninety (90) days after termination of employment or consultancy or the expiration date of the option, whichever occurs first.
8. Retirement
In the event of the Optionee's Retirement, as defined in the Plan, from the employ of Company or any subsidiary, any portion of this option that has not become vested as of the date of Retirement shall immediately terminate and any portion of this option that has already vested as of such date shall terminate one (1) year after such Retirement or on the expiration date of the option, whichever occurs first.
9. Disability
In the event of termination of employment of the Optionee because of disability, any unexercised portion of this option held by the Optionee at the date of such termination (vested and unvested) will immediately become exercisable in full and will remain exercisable by the Optionee for a period of one (1) year or the remaining term of the option, whichever is shorter.
10. Death
 
If an Optionee dies while employed by the Company, any unexercised portion of this option held by the Optionee at his date of death (vested and unvested) will immediately become exercisable in full and will remain exercisable by the estate of the deceased Optionee or the person given authority to exercise his options by his will or by operation of law for a period of one (1) year or the remaining term of the option, whichever is shorter.
11. Changes In Stock
In the event of any change in the number of issued shares (or issuance of shares of stock other than shares of Common Stock) by reason of any stock split, reverse stock split, or stock dividend, recapitalization, reclassification, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, reorganization, combination, or exchange of shares, the exercisability of stock purchase rights received under the Rights Agreement, the issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities, or any other change in corporate structure or in the event of any extraordinary distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares, other securities or other property), the Compensation and Human Resource Committee shall adjust the number or kind of shares that may be issued under the Plan, and the terms of this option (including, without limitation, the number of shares subject to this option, the type of property to which this option relates and the exercise price of this option) in such manner as the Compensation and Human Resource Committee shall determine is appropriate in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, and such adjustment shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustments shall be made with respect to Qualified Performance Awards granted to a Key Employee to the extent such adjustment would cause the award to fail to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and no adjustment shall be required if the Compensation and Human Resource Committee determines that such action could cause an award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A") or otherwise could subject the Optionee to the additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of an outstanding award. In the event of (i) a consolidation or merger in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, (ii) a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation but holders of shares receive securities or another corporation, or (iii) a sale of substantially all of the Company's assets (as an entirety) or capital stock to another person, this option shall be deemed to apply to the equivalent amount of securities, cash or other property that is received by Company stockholders in exchange for their Company shares pursuant to such transaction; provided, however, that the Compensation and Human Resource Committee may, in its discretion, either (i) provide, upon written notice to the Optionee, that this option shall terminate as of the date specified in such notice (in which case the Compensation and Human Resource Committee may, but does not have to, accelerate the vesting of any portion of this option that has not already vested as of the date such notice is provided to the Optionee), or (ii) cancel this option and in consideration of such cancellation pay to the Optionee an amount in cash with respect to each share then remaining under the option equal to the difference between the Fair Market Value of such share on the date of cancellation (or, if greater, the per share value of the consideration received by Company stockholders as a result of the merger, consolidation, reorganization or sale) and the per share exercise price of the option.
12. Continuance of Employment
This option shall not be deemed to obligate the Company or any subsidiary to retain the Optionee in its employ for any period.
13. Provisions of the Plan
This Agreement incorporates by reference the terms of the Plan [(including without limitation, Section 7.5 of the Plan, which provides for the forfeiture of this option and the return of any profit realized upon the exercise of such option in certain circumstances)], and is subject to the provisions thereof.
14. Incorporation by Reference of Employment Agreement
If the Optionee has an employment agreement with CA, Inc. which contains different or additional provisions relating to vesting of the stock option grant, or otherwise conflicts with the terms of this Agreement, the provisions of the employment agreement shall govern and be incorporated herein by reference.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CA, Inc. has caused this Agreement to be executed by the President and CEO. This option is granted at the Company's principal executive office, One CA Plaza, Islandia, New York 11749, on the date stated above.

 
Exhibit 10.5
INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION granted by CA, Inc., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") to the above-named option holder (the "Optionee"), an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the CA, Inc. 2007 Incentive Plan (the "Plan") the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference and which, in the event of any conflict, shall control over the terms contained herein. A copy of the Plan (or related Prospectus delivered to you with this Agreement) may be obtained at no cost by contacting the HR Service Center at 1-866-514-4772 or opening an issue via the web at http://caportal.ca.com (via Employee Self-Service  ESS). If you are located outside of North America, please contact your local Human Resources Representative.
1. Grant and Vesting Option
Subject to the vesting schedule below, the Company hereby grants to the Optionee an option to purchase on the terms herein provided a total of the number of shares of common stock, $.10 par value, of the Company set forth above, at an exercise price per share as set forth above.
This option may be exercised only with respect to the portion thereof that is vested. The right to exercise this option shall become vested according to the following vesting schedule:
Vested options shall be calculated only in terms of full years (for example, from one anniversary date to the next) and no partial vesting credit shall be given for partial years of employment.
This option shall expire and shall not be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date it is granted.
2. Stock to be Delivered
Stock to be delivered upon the exercise of this option may constitute an original issue of authorized stock or may consist of treasury stock.
3. Exercise of Option
Each election to exercise this option shall be made by delivering to the Company or its agent a properly executed exercise notice, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds with respect to the portion of shares to be acquired upon exercise. Exercise of this option will not be permitted if the Company determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that issuance of shares at that time could violate any law or regulation.
 
In the event an option is exercised by the executor or administrator of a deceased Optionee, or by the person or persons to whom the option has been transferred by the Optionee's will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Company shall be under no obligation to deliver stock there under unless and until the Company is satisfied that the person or persons exercising the option is or are the duly appointed executor(s) or administrator(s) of the deceased Optionee or the person to whom the option has been transferred by the Optionee's will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
4. Payment for and Delivery of Stock
Payment in full by cash, certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or postal or express money order may be made for all shares for which this option is exercised at the time of such exercise, and no shares shall be delivered until such payment is made.
Alternatively, payment may be made by (i) delivering to the Company a properly executed exercise notice, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds with respect to the portion of the shares to be acquired upon exercise having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the sum of the applicable portion of the exercise price being so paid and appropriate tax withholding, (ii) tendering to the Company (by physical delivery or by attestation) certificates representing shares of outstanding common stock, par value $.10, of the Company that have been held by the Optionee for at least six months prior to exercise, having a Fair Market Value on the day prior to the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the exercise price being so paid, together with stock powers duly executed and with signature guaranteed; or (iii) any combination of the foregoing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a form of payment will not be available if the Company determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that such form of payment could violate any law or regulation.
The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any stock unless and until (i) satisfactory arrangements have been made with the Company for the payment of any applicable tax withholding obligations, (ii) all applicable federal and state laws and regulations have been complied with, (iii) in the event the outstanding common stock is at the time listed upon any stock exchange, the             shares to be delivered have been listed, or authorized to be listed upon official notice of issuance upon the exchanges where it is listed, and (iv) all legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of the shares have been approved by counsel of the Company. The Optionee shall have no rights of a stockholder until the stock is actually delivered to him. Further, the Optionee acknowledges and consents that, pursuant to the Plan, if the Compensation and Human Resource Committee determines that any consent (as defined in the Plan) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with the grant of this option, delivery of shares or other property or the taking of any other action, then such action will not be taken unless and until such consent is effected or obtained to the Compensation and Human Resource Committee's satisfaction.
5. Recovery and Reimbursement of Option Gain
The Company shall have the right to recover, or receive reimbursement for, any compensation or profit realized by the exercise of this option or by the disposition of any option shares to the extent that the Company has such a right of recovery or reimbursement under applicable securities laws.
6. Nontransferability of Option
This option may not be transferred by the Optionee otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and during the Optionee's lifetime this option may be exercised only by the Optionee.
7. Termination of Employment
Upon termination of employment, other than termination of employment by reason of (i) Retirement, as defined in the Plan, (ii) disability, or (iii) death, any portion of this option that has not become vested as of the date of termination shall immediately terminate and any portion of this option that has already vested as of such date shall terminate ninety (90) days after termination of employment or the expiration date of the option, whichever occurs first.
8. Retirement
In the event of the Optionee's Retirement, as defined in the Plan, from the employ of Company or any subsidiary, any portion of this option that has not become vested as of the date of Retirement shall immediately terminate and any portion of this option that has already vested as of such date shall terminate one (1) year after such retirement or on the expiration date of the option, whichever occurs first.
9. Disability
In the event of termination of employment of the Optionee because of disability, any unexercised portion of this option held by the Optionee at the date of such termination (vested and unvested) will immediately become exercisable in full and will remain exercisable by the Optionee for a period of one (1) year or the remaining term of the option, whichever is shorter.
10. Death
If an Optionee dies while employed by the Company, any unexercised portion of this option held by the Optionee at his date of death (vested and unvested) will immediately become exercisable in full and will remain exercisable by the estate of the deceased Optionee or the person given authority to exercise his options by his will or by operation of law for a period of one (1) year or the remaining term of the options, whichever is shorter.
11. Changes In Stock
 
In the event of any change in the number of issued shares (or issuance of shares of stock other than shares of Common Stock) by reason of any stock split, reverse stock split, or stock dividend, recapitalization, reclassification, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, reorganization, combination, or exchange of shares, the exercisability of stock purchase rights received under the Rights Agreement, the issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities, or any other change in corporate structure or in the event of any extraordinary distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares, other securities or other property), the Compensation and Human Resource Committee shall adjust the number or kind of shares that may be issued under the Plan, and the terms of this option (including, without limitation, the number of shares subject to this option, the type of property to which this option relates and the exercise price of this option) in such manner as the Compensation and Human Resource Committee shall determine is appropriate in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, and such adjustment shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustments shall be made with respect to Qualified Performance Awards granted to a Key Employee to the extent such adjustment would cause the award to fail to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and no adjustment shall be required if the Compensation and Human Resource Committee determines that such action could cause an award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A") or otherwise could subject the Optionee to the additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of an outstanding award. In the event of (i) a consolidation or merger in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, (ii) a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation but holders of shares receive securities or another corporation, or (iii) a sale of substantially all of the Company's assets (as an entirety) or capital stock to another person, this option shall be deemed to apply to the equivalent amount of securities, cash or other property that is received by Company stockholders in exchange for their Company shares pursuant to such transaction; provided, however, that the Compensation and Human Resource Committee may, in its discretion, either (i) provide, upon written notice to the Optionee, that this option shall terminate as of the date specified in such notice (in which case the Compensation and Human Resource Committee may, but does not have to, accelerate the vesting of any portion of this option that has not already vested as of the date such notice is provided to the Optionee), or (ii) cancel this option and in consideration of such cancellation pay to the Optionee an amount in cash with respect to each share then remaining under the option equal to the difference between the Fair Market Value of such share on the date of cancellation (or, if greater, the per share value of the consideration received by Company stockholders as a result of the merger, consolidation, reorganization or sale) and the per share exercise price of the option.
12. Continuance of Employment
This option shall not be deemed to obligate the Company or any subsidiary to retain the Optionee in its employ for any period.
13. Provisions of the Plan and Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code
This Agreement incorporates by reference Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the terms of the Plan [(including without limitation, Section 7.5 of the Plan, which provides for the forfeiture of this option and the return of any profit realized upon the exercise of such option in certain circumstances)], and is subject to the provisions thereof. The Plan and the options granted pursuant to this Agreement are intended to comply with Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and all of the regulations issued pursuant thereto. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the Plan, said Section 422 and the regulations issued there under and any provision of this Agreement held to be inconsistent therewith shall be severable and of no force or effect.
14. Incorporation by Reference of Employment Agreement
If the Optionee has an employment agreement with CA, Inc. which contains different or additional provisions relating to vesting of the stock option grant, or otherwise conflicts with the terms of this Agreement, the provisions of the employment agreement shall govern and be incorporated herein by reference.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CA, Inc. has caused this Agreement to be executed by the President and CEO. This option is granted at the Company's principal executive office, One CA Plaza, Islandia, New York 11749, on the date stated above.


