FILE:CA/CA-8K-20070427160228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On April 26, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Raymond J. Bromark as a member of the Board. Mr. Bromark will serve as a member of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 26, 2007, the Company announced that it had appointed Raymond J. Bromark to the Board of Directors. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
     Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated April 26, 2007.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
ISLANDIA, N.Y., April 26, 2007  CA (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Raymond J. Bromark to the Board effective immediately. Bromark also has been named to the Board's Audit and Compliance Committee.
"Ray brings impeccable credentials and an outstanding record of managerial accomplishment to the CA Board," said CA Chairman Lewis Ranieri. "His abilities and insights will be invaluable to CA and we are delighted he is joining us."
Bromark's appointment will bring the Board to 12 members, eleven of whom are independent.
Bromark spent 39 years with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP until his retirement in 2006, most recently as partner and head of its Professional, Technical, Risk and Quality Group, before retiring last year. From 1994 to 2000, he was global audit partner of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company account. Earlier, he was deputy vice chairman of PwC's Auditing and Business Advisory Services.
He serves on the advisory board of the University of Delaware's Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance and its Lerner College of Business and Economics' Advisory Committee.
Bromark is a member of the American Institute of CPAs. He was PwC's representative on the AICPA's Center for Public Company Audit Firms' Executive Committee and was a member of the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Council and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Standing Advisory Group. He also has been a member of AICPA's Special Committee on Financial Reporting, its SEC Practice Section Executive Committee and its Ethics Executive Committee.
About CA
CA (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, unifies and simplifies the management of enterprise-wide IT. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
Copyright 2007 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies


