FILE:CA/CA-8K-20071101162420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
     
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
SIGNATURES
     
EX-99.1: PRESS RELEASE
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 1, 2007, CA, Inc. ("CA") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) 
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
ISLANDIA, N.Y., Nov. 1, 2007  CA, Inc. (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, today announced results for its second quarter fiscal year 2008, which ended Sept. 30, 2007.
Financial Information Overview
 
"This marks CA's fourth consecutive quarter of solid performance. We made another significant advancement toward our goal of transforming CA into one of the world's leading software providers," said John Swainson, CA's president and chief executive officer. "The world's largest and most sophisticated IT users are coming to us to help them govern, manage and secure their IT infrastructures using CA software."
"We are seeing real excitement from these customers as they see how CA's products and services can help them manage the cost of IT, improve its efficiency and security, and allow them to ensure that their IT investments are aligned with their business strategy. We will continue to invest in software technology that does this, even as we improve our internal processes and sales and marketing efficiency. All of this gives us confidence that our Enterprise IT Management strategy is right on track, and that we are also on track to meet our financial objectives," he concluded.
 
Second Quarter Results
Total revenue for the second quarter was $1.067 billion, an increase of 8 percent, or 5 percent in constant currency, compared to $987 million reported in the comparable prior year period.
For the first half of fiscal 2008, total revenue was $2.092 billion, up 8 percent or 5 percent in constant currency over the first half of fiscal 2007.
Total North American revenue was up 5 percent in the second quarter while revenue from international operations was up 12 percent, or 5 percent on a constant currency basis, compared to the same period last year.
Total product and services bookings in the second quarter were $1.007 billion, an increase of 46 percent over the $690 million reported in the comparable prior year period. The increase in bookings was driven primarily by an increase in the number of large contracts which were renewed in the quarter, as well as an increase in contract length. During the quarter, the Company renewed 16 license agreements greater than $10 million, totaling $334 million, compared to 6 such deals, totaling $113 million, in the prior year period. The weighted average duration of new direct bookings in the second quarter was 3.17 years, compared to 2.98 years in the prior year's second quarter.
For the first half of fiscal 2008, total product and services bookings were $1.841 billion, up 47 percent from the $1.252 billion reported in the first half of fiscal 2007. The Company expects total product and services bookings growth for the full fiscal year to be in the low double digits.
Total expenses, before interest and income taxes, for the second quarter were $823 million, a decrease of 9 percent, or 11 percent in constant currency, compared to $907 million in the prior year period. The second quarter was positively affected by a decrease in amortization of capitalized software and lower restructuring expenses from the comparable quarter last year. In the second quarter, GAAP operating income was $244 million, representing an operating margin of 23 percent, a 15 percentage point improvement from the prior year period.
Total expenses, before interest and income taxes, for the first half were $1.637 billion, a decrease of 9 percent, or 11 percent in constant currency, compared to the $1.805 billion reported in the first half of fiscal 2007.
On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes purchased software and intangibles amortization and restructuring and other costs, the Company reported second quarter operating expenses of $779 million, up 3 percent from the $756 million reported in the prior year period. Excluding the negative impact of currency, operating expenses were flat year-over-year. In the second quarter, non-GAAP operating income was $288 million, representing a non-GAAP operating margin of 27 percent, a 4 percentage point improvement from the prior year period.
 
For the first half of fiscal 2008, non-GAAP operating expenses were $1.548 billion, virtually flat and down 2 percent in constant currency from the $1.539 billion reported in the same period in fiscal 2007.
The Company recorded GAAP income from continuing operations of $137 million for the second quarter, or $0.26 per diluted common share, compared to $54 million, or $0.09 per diluted common share, in the prior year period. This improvement is a result of higher revenue and the decrease in amortization of software costs described above.
For the first half of 2008, GAAP income from continuing operations was $266 million, or $0.49 per diluted common share, up from the $89 million, or $0.15 per diluted common share, reported in the same period in fiscal year 2007.
The Company recorded non-GAAP income from continuing operations of $173 million for the second quarter, or $0.32 per diluted common share, compared to $153 million, or $0.26 per diluted common share, reported a year earlier. For the first half of 2008, non-GAAP income from continuing operations was $332 million, up 29 percent from the first half of fiscal 2007, while non-GAAP earnings per diluted common share were $0.61 in the first half of fiscal 2008, an increase of $0.17, or 39 percent, over the $0.44 reported in the same period in fiscal 2007.
For the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, CA reported cash flow from operations of $193 million, compared to $6 million in cash flow from operations in the second quarter of fiscal year 2007. For the first half, CA reported $180 million in cash flow from operations, an improvement of $220 million from the first half of fiscal 2007.
Capital Structure
The balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at Sept. 30, 2007, was $1.890 billion. With $2.578 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net debt position of $688 million.
Outlook for Fiscal Year 2008
The Company updated its fiscal 2008 annual outlook based on current expectations. The following represents "forward-looking statements" (as defined below).
 
The revenue and earnings per share projections are based on current exchange rates and assume no acquisitions.
The Company anticipates approximately 514 million shares outstanding at fiscal year-end and a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 542 million shares for the fiscal year. The Company also expects a full-year tax rate on non-GAAP net income of approximately 36 percent.
This press release and the accompanying tables should be read in conjunction with additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package and related slide presentation as well as a webcast that the Company will host at 5 p.m. ET today to discuss its second quarter fiscal year 2008 results. The webcast will be archived on the website. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at or listen to the call at 1-877-809-1564. International participants can listen to the call at 1-706-634-8757.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA
CA (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, unifies and simplifies the management of enterprise-wide IT. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release, the accompanying tables and the additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, includes certain financial measures that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S.
 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP metrics for operating expenses, operating income, operating margin, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share exclude the following items: non-cash amortization of purchased software and other intangibles, charges for in-process research and development costs, and restructuring and other charges. Non-GAAP metrics for income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share also excludes the interest on dilutive convertible bonds (the convertible shares, rather than the interest, are more dilutive, thus the interest is added back and the shares increased to calculate non-GAAP operating earnings). Full-year tax rate on non-GAAP income is provided based on the estimated effective annual tax rate on non-GAAP income. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes restructuring and other payments and SEC settlement payments. Free cash flow excludes capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.
In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this news release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, which are attached to this news release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the timing of orders from customers and channel partners may cause fluctuations in some of CA's key financial metrics; changes to the compensation of CA's sales organization and changes to CA's sales coverage model and organization could adversely affect CA's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow; if CA does not adequately manage and evolve its financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, including the successful implementation of its enterprise resource planning software, its ability to manage and grow
 
its business may be harmed; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies and products into its existing businesses; CA is subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing and increased competition is expected in the future; if CA's products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, CA could lose customers and the demand for CA's products and services could decrease; CA may lose access to third party operating systems or certain third party software that CA uses in daily operations, either of which could delay product development and production; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further which would require CA to pay additional interest under its credit agreement and could adversely affect CA's ability to borrow; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights would weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; CA's sales to government clients subject it to risks, including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties; general economic conditions may lead CA's customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; third parties could claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights or that CA owes royalty payments; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in translation losses; CA has outsourced various functions to third parties and these arrangements may not be successful; and the other factors described in CA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright 2007 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
     Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
     Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
     Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information
 


