FILE:CA/CA-8K-20070801162552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 1, 2007, CA, Inc. ("CA") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
ISLANDIA, N.Y., August 1, 2007  CA (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, today announced results for its first quarter fiscal year 2008, which ended June 30, 2007.
Financial Information Overview
 
*  A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure referenced in this press release to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the tables following this news release.
"CA had a good start to its 2008 fiscal year and today's results represent our third consecutive quarter of solid business performance," said John Swainson, CA's president and chief executive officer. "Revenue, bookings, and GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share all showed improvement from a year ago and we are making substantial progress in cutting costs and building more effective business processes. We are seeing healthy demand in the marketplace for our products and solutions, especially for those based on our Enterprise IT Management vision. While there is still more we need to accomplish, we believe we are on track to achieve our goals in the 2008 fiscal year."
 
First Quarter Results
Total revenue for the first quarter was $1.025 billion, an increase of 8 percent, or 5 percent in constant currency, compared to the $949 million reported in the comparable prior year period. Aside from the gains attributed to currency, the increase in revenue primarily came from growth in subscription revenue and professional services. The increase was partially offset by decreases in software fees and other revenue, and revenue from maintenance and financing fees as CA continues to transition from its prior business model.
Total North American revenue was up 5 percent while revenue from international operations was up 13 percent, or 6 percent on a constant currency basis.
Total product and services bookings in the first quarter were $834 million, an increase of 48 percent over the $562 million reported in the comparable prior year period. The increase in bookings was driven primarily by an increase in the number of large contracts, which were renewed in the quarter as well as an increase in contract length. During the quarter, the Company renewed ten contracts greater than $10 million, totaling $202 million, compared to four such deals, totaling $57 million, in the prior year period. The weighted average duration of new direct bookings in the first quarter was 3.35 years, compared to 2.48 years in the prior year's first quarter. On an annualized basis, the year-over-year new direct bookings increased $35 million, or 22 percent, over the comparable prior year period.
Due in part to a slow bookings start in fiscal 2007, the Company expects relatively easier year-over-year bookings comparisons in the first half of the 2008 fiscal year and more difficult comparisons in the second half. Overall, the Company said it expects total bookings growth for the full fiscal year.
Total expenses, before interest and taxes, for the first quarter were $814 million, down 9 percent, compared with $898 million in the prior year period. The first quarter was positively affected by a $76 million decrease in amortization of capitalized software costs. In the first quarter, GAAP operating income was $211 million, representing an operating margin of 21 percent, a 16 percentage point improvement from the prior year period.
 
On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes purchased software and intangibles amortization and restructuring and other costs, the Company reported first quarter operating expenses of $769 million, down 2 percent from the $783 million reported in the prior year period. Excluding the negative impact of currency, these operating expenses declined year-over-year by approximately $34 million or 4 percent. The reduction can be attributed primarily to lower selling, general and administrative expenses, which declined $37 million from the same period last year and which reflect progress in CA's expense management initiatives. In the first quarter, non-GAAP operating income was $256 million, representing a non-GAAP operating margin of 25 percent, an 8 percentage point improvement from the prior year period.
The Company recorded GAAP income from continuing operations of $129 million for the first quarter, or $0.24 per diluted common share, compared to $35 million, or $0.06 per diluted common share, in the prior year period. This improvement is a result of higher revenue and lower total expenses as described above.
The Company recorded non-GAAP income from continuing operations of $159 million for the first quarter, or $0.29 per diluted common share, compared to $104 million, or $0.17 per diluted common share, reported a year earlier.
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, CA reported negative cash flow from operations of $13 million, compared to negative $46 million in cash flow from operations in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. The Company said cash flow from operations was better than expected due in part to the timing of approximately $50 million in tax payments, now anticipated to be made later in the 2008 fiscal year. Additionally, the expected decline in collections for the first quarter from single installment contracts booked and billed in the preceding quarter was offset by an increase in collections from single installment contracts booked and billed in the first quarter.
 
Capital Structure
In the first quarter, the Company executed its previously announced accelerated share repurchase program and repurchased 16.9 million common shares, or approximately 3 percent of total outstanding common shares. The program cost $500 million and, depending on the average price of CA shares over the life of the program, could result in CA's receiving additional shares at no additional cost when the program is concluded, which is expected to be CA's third quarter.
The balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at June 30, 2007, was $1.7 billion. With $2.6 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net debt position of approximately $850 million.
First Quarter Highlights
Outlook for Fiscal Year 2008
The Company updated its fiscal 2008 annual outlook based on current expectations and represents "forward-looking statements" (as defined below).
 
The Company anticipates approximately 514 million actual shares outstanding at fiscal year-end and a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 543 million shares for the fiscal year. The Company also expects a full-year tax rate on non-GAAP income of approximately 35 percent, up 2 percentage points and translating to a negative impact of approximately 3 cents per share from the previous outlook.
This press release and the accompanying tables should be read in conjunction with additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package and related slide presentation, as well as a webcast that the Company will host at 5 p.m. ET today to discuss its first quarter fiscal year 2008 results. The webcast will be archived on the website. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at or listen to the call at 1-877-809-1564. International participants can listen to the call at 1-706-634-8757.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA
CA (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest information technology (IT) management software companies, unifies and simplifies the management of enterprise-wide IT. Founded in 1976, CA is headquartered in Islandia, N.Y., and serves customers in more than 140 countries. For more information, please visit .
http://ca.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release, the accompanying tables and the additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, includes certain financial measures that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP metrics for operating expenses, operating income, operating margin, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share exclude the following items: non-cash amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles, charges
 
for in-process research and development costs, and restructuring and other charges. Non-GAAP metrics for income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share also excludes the interest on dilutive convertible bonds (the convertible shares, rather than the interest, are more dilutive, thus the interest is added back and the shares increased to calculate non-GAAP operating earnings). Full-year tax rate on non-GAAP income is provided based on the estimated effective annual tax rate on non-GAAP income. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes restructuring and other payments and the restitution fund payments. Free cash flow excludes capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.
In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this news release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, which are attached to this news release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the timing of orders from customers and channel partners may cause fluctuations in some of CA's key financial metrics; changes to the compensation of CA's sales organization and changes to CA's sales coverage model and organization could adversely affect CA's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow; if CA does not adequately manage and evolve its financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, including the successful implementation of its enterprise resource planning software, its ability to manage and grow its business may be harmed; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies and products into its existing businesses; CA is subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing and increased competition is expected in the future; if CA's products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, CA could lose customers and the demand for CA's products and services could decrease; CA may lose access to third party operating systems or certain third party software that CA uses in daily operations, either of which could delay product development and production; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further which would require CA to pay additional interest under its credit agreement and could adversely affect CA's ability to borrow; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to
 
protect CA's intellectual property rights would weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; CA's sales to government clients subject it to risks, including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties; general economic conditions may lead CA's customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; third parties could claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights or that CA owes royalty payments; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in translation losses; CA has outsourced various functions to third parties and these arrangements may not be successful; and the other factors described in CA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright 2007 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 


