FILE:CA/CA-8K-20080131161554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
On January 31, 2008, CA, Inc. ("CA") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d)
Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., Jan. 31, 2008  CA, Inc. (NYSE:CA), one of the world's largest management software companies, today announced results for its third quarter fiscal year 2008, which ended Dec. 31, 2007.
Financial Information Overview
 
"CA has recorded another solid quarter  our fifth in a row," said John Swainson, CA's president and chief executive officer. "Most importantly, we remain on course to finish the year with revenue and earnings per share exceeding the updated annual outlook provided at our financial analyst day last December.
"I am very satisfied with our continued performance improvement, and I am very proud of the people of CA for their efforts and accomplishments," Swainson continued. "Our EITM strategy enables us to communicate CA's value proposition to customers in a clear and compelling way, and we have made considerable progress in our efforts to cross-sell and up-sell a broader portfolio of CA products to new and existing customers.
"I am confident that CA's stable customer base and rich product portfolio puts us in a strong position in today's competitive environment. Our results are clearly showing the benefits of the transformation efforts we began three years ago. We continue to manage our business prudently: controlling costs, increasing efficiency and improving margins at the same time as we focus on delivering innovative products and driving revenue growth," Swainson concluded.
Third Quarter Results
Total revenue for the third quarter was $1.100 billion, an increase of 10 percent, or 4 percent in constant currency, compared to $1.002 billion reported in the comparable prior year period. For the first three quarters of fiscal year 2008, total revenue was $3.192 billion, up 9 percent, or 5 percent in constant currency, over the first three quarters of fiscal year 2007.
Total North American revenue was up 5 percent in the third quarter while revenue from international operations was up 17 percent, or 4 percent on a constant currency basis, compared to the same period last year.
 
Total product and services bookings in the third quarter were $1.228 billion, compared to $1.553 billion reported in the comparable prior year period, and, as expected, declined 21 percent on a year-over-year basis. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, the Company renewed 16 license agreements greater than $10 million, totaling $303 million, compared to 18 such deals, totaling $700 million, in the prior year period. The weighted average duration of new direct bookings in the third quarter was 3.16 years, compared to 3.74 years in the prior year's third quarter. When annualized, the year-over-year decrease from new direct bookings was 9 percent.
For the first three quarters of fiscal year 2008, total product and services bookings were $3.069 billion, up 9 percent from the $2.805 billion reported in the first three quarters of fiscal year 2007. In addition, annualized direct bookings for the first three quarters of the fiscal year increased 17 percent over the same period last year. The Company now expects total product and services bookings for the full 2008 fiscal year to grow at a percentage in the mid-teens over the prior year.
Total expenses, before interest and income taxes, for the third quarter were $851 million, a decrease of 6 percent, compared to $907 million in the prior year period. The third quarter was positively affected by a decrease in amortization of capitalized software from the comparable quarter last year. In the third quarter, GAAP operating income was $249 million, representing an operating margin of 23 percent, a 14 percentage point improvement from the prior year period.
Total expenses, before interest and income taxes, for the first three quarters were $2.488 billion, a decrease of 8 percent, compared to the $2.712 billion reported in the first three quarters of fiscal year 2007. The decline in expenses was driven primarily by a decrease in amortization of capitalized software, lower restructuring costs and improved expense management.
On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes purchased software and intangibles, amortization, restructuring and other costs, the Company reported third quarter operating expenses of $800 million, up one percent from the $791 million reported in the prior year period. Excluding the negative impact of currency, non-GAAP operating expenses were down 3 percent year-over-year. In the third quarter, non-GAAP operating income was $300 million, up 42 percent from the prior year period and representing a non-GAAP operating margin of 27 percent  a 6 percentage point improvement from the third quarter of fiscal year 2007.
The Company recorded GAAP income from continuing operations of $163 million for the third quarter, or $0.31 per diluted common share, compared to $52 million, or $0.10 per diluted common share, in the prior year period. This improvement is a result of higher revenue, expense control and the decrease in amortization of purchased software and restructuring costs described above. For the first three quarters of fiscal year 2008, GAAP income from continuing operations was $429 million, or $0.80 per diluted common share, up from the $141 million, or $0.25 per diluted common share, reported in the same period in fiscal year 2007.
The Company recorded non-GAAP income from continuing operations of $192 million for the third quarter, or $0.36 per diluted common share, compared to $133
 
million, or $0.24 per diluted common share, reported a year earlier. For the first three quarters of fiscal year 2008, non-GAAP income from continuing operations was $524 million, up 34 percent from the first three quarters of fiscal year 2007, while non-GAAP earnings per diluted common share were $0.97 in the first three quarters of fiscal year 2008, an increase of 43 percent, over the $0.68 reported in the same period in fiscal year 2007.
For the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, CA reported cash flow from operations of $233 million, compared to $587 million in cash flow from operations in the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. The year-over-year decline was due primarily to last year's stronger than usual bookings in the third quarter, the result of a catch-up from a weaker than normal first half of fiscal year 2007. Cash flow also was affected by an investment in working capital in the third quarter, the majority of which the Company expects to recover in the fourth quarter of 2008. Additionally, third quarter cash flow was affected by lower than expected cash taxes due principally to a tax refund. For the first three quarters of the fiscal year, the Company recorded $413 million in cash flow from operations compared to $547 million reported in the prior year period.
Capital Structure
The balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at Dec. 31, 2007, was $2.078 billion. With $2.575 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net debt position of $497 million.
Outlook for Fiscal Year 2008
The Company updated its fiscal year 2008 annual outlook based on current expectations. The following represents "forward-looking statements" (as defined below).
The revenue and earnings per share guidance is updated for currency exchange rates and assumes no acquisitions.
 
The Company anticipates approximately 514 million shares outstanding at fiscal year-end and a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 541 million shares for the fiscal year. The Company also expects a full-year tax rate on non-GAAP income of approximately 36 percent.
This press release and the accompanying tables should be read in conjunction with additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package and related slide presentation as well as a webcast that the Company will host at 5 p.m. ET today to discuss its third quarter fiscal year 2008 results. The webcast will be archived on the website. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at or listen to the call at 1-877-809-1564. International participants can listen to the call at 1-706-634-8757.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA
CA (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest independent software companies, provides software solutions to unify and simplify IT management. With CA's Enterprise IT Management (EITM) vision and expertise, organizations can more effectively govern, manage and secure IT to optimize business performance and sustain competitive advantage. Founded in 1976, CA serves customers in virtually every country in the world. For more information, please visit .
www.ca.com
This news release, the accompanying tables and the additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, includes certain financial measures that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP metrics for operating expenses, operating income, operating margin, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share exclude the following items: non-cash amortization of purchased software and other intangibles, charges for in-process research and development costs, and restructuring and other charges. Non-GAAP income from continuing operations also excludes the interest on convertible bonds. Tax rate on non-GAAP income from continuing operations is determined by reference to an estimated effective full year tax rate inclusive of tax rate impacts of certain discrete items such as non-US tax rate changes, reconciliations of non-US tax filings to non-US tax provisions and resolutions of US and international tax contingencies. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes restructuring and other payments and SEC settlement payments. Free cash flow excludes capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.
,
 
In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this news release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, which are attached to this news release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements." A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the timing of orders from customers and channel partners may cause fluctuations in some of CA's key financial metrics; changes to the compensation of CA's sales organization and changes to CA's sales coverage model and organization could adversely affect CA's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow; if CA does not adequately manage and evolve its financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, including the successful implementation of its enterprise resource planning software, its ability to manage and grow its business may be harmed; CA may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies and products into its existing businesses; CA is subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing and increased competition is expected in the future; if CA's products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, CA could lose customers and the demand for CA's products and services could decrease; CA may lose access to third party operating systems or certain third party software that CA uses in daily operations, either of which could delay product development and production; CA's credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further which would require CA to pay additional interest under its credit agreement and could adversely affect CA's ability to borrow; CA has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect CA's intellectual property rights would weaken its competitive position; CA may become dependent upon large transactions; CA's sales to government clients subject it to risks, including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties; general economic conditions may lead CA's customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades; the market for some or all of CA's key product areas may not grow; third parties could claim that CA's products infringe their intellectual property rights or that CA owes royalty payments; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in translation losses; CA has outsourced various functions to third parties and these arrangements may not be successful; and the other factors described in CA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CA assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright 2008 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


