FILE:CA/CA-8K-20080303163109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
On February 26, 2008, the Board of Directors of CA, Inc. elected Michael J. Christenson as President of CA, Inc., succeeding John A. Swainson in that position. Mr. Swainson remains Chief Executive Officer of CA, Inc. and Mr. Christenson remains Chief Operating Officer of CA, Inc. In his new capacity, Mr. Christenson will continue to report to Mr. Swainson. The term of their offices will expire at the first meeting of the CA, Inc. Board of Directors following the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, subject to any earlier resignation or removal.
Mr. Christenson, age 49, was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of CA, Inc. from April 2006 to February 26, 2008. From February 2005 to April 2006, he served as Executive Vice President of Strategy and Business Development of CA, Inc. Mr. Christenson retired in 2004 from Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. after a 23-year career as an investment banker, where he was responsible for that company's Global Private Equity Investment Banking, North American Regional Investment Banking, and Latin American Investment Banking. In addition, he was a member of the Operating Committee of the Global Investment Banking Division and the Investment Committee of SSB Capital Partners. Prior to these roles, he served as head of Citigroup's Global Technology Investment Banking and Global Media Investment Banking.
A copy of the press release issued by CA, Inc. regarding the above-mentioned actions is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
[Exhibit 99.1]
ISLANDIA, N.Y., March 3, 2008  CA, Inc. (NYSE:CA) today announced that Michael J. Christenson, 49, has been named CA's president. He continues as the Company's chief operating officer and continues to report to CA Chief Executive Officer John Swainson.
"Since being named as chief operating officer nearly two years ago, Mike has overhauled CA's sales operations and established a more dynamic and efficient organization, focusing on establishing strong partnerships with our current and new customers to drive revenue growth," said Swainson. "In addition, Mike has led CA's efforts to significantly improve its technical support, services, strategic alliances and training capabilities."
As president and chief operating officer, Christenson oversees CA's direct and indirect sales, CA Services, technical support, business development and strategic alliances.
Christenson joined CA in February 2005 as executive vice president for Strategy and Business Development. In that role, he led CA's acquisition program and its integration team in the successful acquisition and integration of 15 companies with a total investment of $1.8 billion. These acquisitions, which included such companies as Concord Communications, Niku, and Wily Technology, significantly strengthened CA's solution portfolio and made CA a stronger technology partner for its customers. He was named CA's COO in April 2006.
Following a 23-year career as an investment banker, Christenson retired from Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. in 2004. Christenson earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in chemistry from Rutgers University and a Master of Business Administration degree in finance from The New York University Graduate School of Business.
About CA
CA (NYSE: CA), one of the world's largest independent software companies, provides software solutions to unify and simplify IT management. With CA's Enterprise IT Management (EITM) vision and expertise, organizations can more effectively govern, manage and secure IT to optimize business performance and sustain competitive advantage. Founded in 1976, CA serves customers in virtually every country in the world. For more information, please visit .
www.ca.com
Copyright 2008 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.

 
[EXHIBIT 99.2]
February 29, 2008
John A. Swainson      [Address],           [Address]
Re:
Amendment to Employment Agreement
Dear John:
          This (referred to herein as "") amends your dated November 22, 2004, as previously amended on August 24, 2005 as amendedthe "with , a Delaware corporation (the ""). In accordance with the provisions of Section 13(g) "" of the Employment Agreement, this Amendment amends your Employment Agreement as follows:
agreement
Amendment
Employment Agreement
(
,
Employment Agreement
")
CA, Inc.
Company
Amendments and Waivers
1. Your Position
          You agree that Section 1(a) "" of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended such that, effective on the date hereof, you will cease to be President of the Company and will continue to serve the Company only in the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Company. You will remain a member of the Board.
Position
2. Good Reason
          You agree that your relinquishing the title of President and any reduction in your authority, responsibilities and reporting relationships occurring now or in the future by reason of this change in your title and position shall not constitute "Good Reason" under Section 5(c)(1) "" of the Employment Agreement, so long as you remain the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
Termination by You for Good Reason
3. Effects on Other Agreements; Entire Agreement
          You agree that from and after the date hereof, Section 10 of the Employment Agreement "" will be deemed to refer to the Employment Agreement and this Amendment.
Effects on Other Agreements; Entire Agreement
 
4. Employment Agreement Governs
          You agree that this Amendment will be governed by and subject to all the terms set forth in the Employment Agreement as if it were part of the Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Employment Agreement. Except as modified herein, all of the terms of your Employment Agreement remain in full force and effect.
 
          This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of which will constitute an original and all of which, when taken together, will constitute one amendment. However, this Amendment will not be effective until the date both parties have executed it.

 
[EXHIBIT 99.3]
     THIS AMENDMENT dated February 29, 2008 to the Employment Agreement entered into by and between CA, Inc. (the "") and Michael Christenson (the "") as of May 31, 2007, setting forth the terms and conditions under which Employee served the Company as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Company
Employee
     WHEREAS, the Company has promoted the Employee to the position of President and the Company and Employee desire to amend the Employment Agreement to reflect such appointment,
     WHEREAS, the Employment Agreement provides in Section 7(d) that any amendment must be in writing executed by the parties,
     WHEREAS, the Company and Employee hereby agree that except as otherwise explicitly amended herein, all other terms and conditions of the Employment Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained in the Employment Agreement, as amended, and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1. The first paragraph of shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Section 1 of the Employment Agreement
          . The Company hereby agrees to employ Employee as President, and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, and Employee hereby accepts such position and agrees to serve the Company and its affiliates from time to time (the "Group") in such capacity during the Employment Period (as defined in the Employment Agreement). The Employee shall report directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer. The Employee's duties, responsibilities and authorities shall include but not be limited to those he has on the date hereof and any other duties, responsibilities and authorities consistent with his job title as specified by the Chief Executive Officer from time to time. The Employee will (a) serve the Company (and such of its subsidiary companies as the Company may designate) faithfully, diligently and to the best of the Employee's ability under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer, (b) devote his full working time and best efforts, attention and energy to the performance of his duties to the Company and (c) not do anything inconsistent with his duties to the Company
1. Employment, Duties, Authority and Work Standard
 
[EXHIBIT 99.3]
     2. For the avoidance of doubt, the Employee agrees that the change in position set forth in this amendment to the Employment Agreement does not constitute a "Good Reason" event as set forth in Appendix A to the Employment Agreement.
     3. This Amendment and the Employment Agreement, and the Appendix thereto, contains the entire agreement between the parties hereto and there are no agreements, warranties or representations which are not set forth therein or herein. Except as modified herein, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect.
     4. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflict of laws principles.
     5. This Amendment may be executed simultaneously in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this agreement to be executed by them or their duly authorized representatives as of the date first written above.


