FILE:CA/CA-8K-20080416162720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 3.01. Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
On April 16, 2008, CA, Inc. provided written notice to The New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") that it expects to voluntarily cease trading on the NYSE, effective on or about April 25, 2008, and intends to transfer its listing to The Nasdaq Global Select Market ("Nasdaq"). CA Inc.'s shares of common stock have been approved for listing on Nasdaq and are expected to trade under the symbol "CA" effective on or about April 28, 2008.
A copy of CA's press release related to the transfer of its listing from the NYSE to Nasdaq is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
- CA, Inc. (NYSE: CA) today announced that it will move its stock exchange listing from The New York Stock Exchange to The NASDAQ Global Select Market, effective April 28, 2008. CA's shares of common stock will be traded on NASDAQ under the ticker symbol CA.
ISLANDIA, N.Y., April 16, 2008
"As one of the world's leading software companies, our move to NASDAQ demonstrates further our commitment to enhance value for our shareholders," said Joseph Doncheski, vice president, Investor Relations for CA, Inc. "Our decision was made after careful and thorough consideration as to which market alternative was best aligned with our company's growth strategy. While we have enjoyed our 20-plus year partnership with The New York Stock Exchange, we believe that NASDAQ's multiple market makers provide a variety of benefits and support for our shareholders."
"CA, like NASDAQ, has built its business around innovation and providing customers with exceptional products and service," said Bruce Aust, executive vice president of The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. "We are proud to have CA list on NASDAQ and look forward to a long-term partnership based on our shared customer value proposition and commitment to the investing community."
About NASDAQ OMX Group
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. is the world's largest exchange company. It delivers trading, exchange technology and public company services across six continents, and with over 3,900 companies, it is number one in
 
worldwide listings among major markets. NASDAQ OMX Group offers multiple capital raising solutions to companies around the globe, including its U.S. listings market; the OMX Nordic Exchange, including First North; and the 144A PORTAL Market. The company offers trading across multiple asset classes including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and ETFs. NASDAQ OMX Group technology supports the operations of over 60 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. OMX Nordic Exchange is not a legal entity but describes the common offering from NASDAQ OMX Group exchanges in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Iceland, Tallinn, Riga, and Vilnius. For more information about NASDAQ OMX, visit
www.nasdaqomx.com.
About CA
CA, one of the world's largest independent software companies, provides software solutions to unify and simplify IT management. With CA's Enterprise IT Management (EITM) vision and expertise, organizations can more effectively govern, manage and secure IT to optimize business performance and sustain competitive advantage. Founded in 1976, CA serves customers in virtually every country in the world. For more information, visit .
ca.com
Copyright  2008 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
Press Contacts
Bill Hughes CA, Inc. Phone: (212) 415-6828
william.hughes@ca.com
Carol Lu CA, Inc. Phone: (212) 415-6920
carol.lu@ca.com


