FILE:CA/CA-8K-20081119125738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 19, 2008, the Board of Directors of CA, Inc. elected Kay Koplovitz as a member of the Board. Ms. Koplovitz will serve as a member of the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board. A copy of a press release announcing the election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., November 19, 2008  CA (NASDAQ:CA), the world's leading independent IT management software company, today announced that Kay Koplovitz has been elected to its Board of Directors effective immediately. Koplovitz also has been named to the Board's Corporate Governance Committee. "Kay brings exceptional leadership credentials and business accomplishments to the CA Board," said CA Chairman Bill McCracken. "Her insight and expertise related to business and governance issues will be extremely valuable. We are delighted to have her join us."  Koplovitz's appointment increases the Board membership to 11, ten of whom are independent.  Koplovitz is Chairman and CEO of Koplovitz & Co. LLC, a media advisory and investment firm. In 2007, she was named Chairman of the Board of Liz Claiborne, Inc., a designer and marketer of fashion apparel and accessories and has served as a director since 1992. Koplovitz is the founder of USA Network, an international cable television programming company and served as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 1977 to 1998. In 2001, Koplovitz co-founded BoldCap Ventures, a venture capital fund of which she is a governing board member.
Koplovitz also serves on the boards of a number of not-for-profit organizations, including the Paley Center for Media, Springboard Enterprises, an organization that fosters investment in women-led firms, and The International Tennis Hall of Fame.
Koplovitz, 63, graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Wisconsin and earned a masters degree in communications from Michigan State University. She also holds honorary doctorate degrees from Michigan State, St. Johns University and Emerson College.
About CA
CA (NASDAQ: CA) is the world's leading independent IT management software company. With CA's Enterprise IT Management (EITM) vision and expertise, organizations can more effectively govern, manage and secure IT to optimize business performance and sustain competitive advantage. For more information, visit .
www.ca.com
 
Copyright  2008 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.


