FILE:CA/CA-8K-20080731165453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report:
July 31, 2008
(Date of earliest event reported)
CA, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
Delaware
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
(800) 225-5224
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Not applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 31, 2008, CA, Inc. (CA) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
CA Reports First Quarter Fiscal Year 2009 Results
Revenue up 6 percent to $1.087 billion
GAAP earnings per share increases 54 percent to $0.37
GAAP operating margin increases 7 points
Non-GAAP earnings per share up 38 percent to $0.40
Records strongest first quarter cash flow from operations in three years
Reaffirms full fiscal year 2009 outlook
ISLANDIA, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--CA, Inc. (NASDAQ:CA), the worlds leading independent IT management software company, today announced results for its first quarter fiscal year 2009, ended June 30, 2008.
I am pleased that the first quarter of fiscal 2009 was a good one for CA, our seventh consecutive quarter of solid performance, said John Swainson, CAs chief executive officer. We built on the momentum we established and sustained in fiscal year 2008 and recorded strong bookings and profit growth with cash flow from operations and revenue meeting our expectations.
Our results indicate that CA has innovative products that are operationally critical to our customers success; a sound, reliable financial model; and strong relationships with customers, which we are able to nurture and grow quarter after quarter, year after year, he continued.
These advantages are the bedrock of CAs continuing success. Thats why I am confident about CAs position in the marketplace and why we are reaffirming our outlook for fiscal year 2009, Swainson concluded.
Total revenue for the first quarter was $1.087 billion, up 6 percent, or flat in constant currency, from the $1.025 billion reported in the similar period last fiscal year.
Total North American revenue was up 3 percent in the first quarter while revenue from international operations was up 10 percent, or down 2 percent on a constant currency basis, compared with the same period last year.
Total bookings* in the first quarter were $1.030 billion, up 15 percent compared with $895 million in the prior year comparable period. During the quarter, the Company signed 13 license agreements with incremental values greater than $10 million, for a total of about $371 million, compared with 10 license agreements totaling about $202 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Weighted average life of subscription and maintenance bookings* in the first quarter was 3.37 years, compared with 2.95 years in the prior fiscal year period. When annualized, the year-over-year increase in annualized subscription and maintenance bookings for the quarter was 5 percent.
Total expenses, before interest and income taxes, for the first quarter were $779 million, a decrease of 4 percent, compared with $814 million in the prior year period. In the first quarter, GAAP operating income, before interest and income taxes, was $308 million, representing an operating margin of 28 percent, a 7 percentage point improvement from the prior year period.
On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes purchased software and intangibles amortization, restructuring and other costs and gains and losses on hedges of operating income relating to future periods, the Company reported first quarter operating expenses of $745 million, down 3 percent from the $769 million reported in the prior year period. Excluding the negative impact of currency, first quarter non-GAAP operating expenses were down 7 percent year-over-year. For the first quarter, non-GAAP operating income, before interest and incomes taxes, was $342 million, up 34 percent from the prior year period and representing a non-GAAP operating margin of 31 percent, a 6 percentage point improvement from the first quarter of fiscal year 2008.
The Company reported first-quarter GAAP income of $200 million or $0.37 per diluted common share, compared with income of $129 million or $0.24 per diluted common share a year earlier, representing a 54 percent increase in earnings per share.
CA recorded non-GAAP income of $214 million for the first quarter, or $0.40 per diluted common share, compared with $159 million, or $0.29 per diluted common share, reported a year earlier, representing a 38 percent increase in earnings per share.
The Company reported cash flow from operations of $54 million in the first quarter, up from a negative $13 million recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Cash flow was affected positively by a duplicate payment of $23 million received from a customer that was returned in the second quarter.
Capital Structure
The balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at June 30, 2008, was $2.411 billion. With $2.230 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net cash position of $181 million.
Outlook for Fiscal Year 2009
The Company reaffirmed its fiscal year 2009 annual outlook based on current expectations. The following represents forward-looking statements (as defined below).
Total bookings growth in the mid-to-high single digits;
Total revenue growth of 2 to 4 percent in constant currency, or $4.5 billion to $4.6 billion when translated at current foreign currency exchange rates, representing reported growth of 5 to 7 percent;
GAAP earnings per common diluted share of $1.28 to $1.35. The outlook includes about $30 million in charges related to previously disclosed restructuring plans;
Non-GAAP operating earnings per share of $1.45 to $1.52 per diluted common share, an increase of 22 percent to 28 percent; and
Full-year cash flow from operations of $1.150 billion to $1.180 billion, an increase of 4 percent to 7 percent. The outlook includes about $120 million in payments related to previously disclosed restructuring plans and relatively flat cash taxes year-over-year.
Except as otherwise noted, guidance reflects current foreign currency exchange rates, assumes no acquisitions and a partial currency hedge of operating income.
The Company anticipates approximately 517 million shares outstanding at fiscal 2009 year-end and a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 541 million for the fiscal year. The Company also expects a full-year tax rate on non-GAAP income of approximately 37 percent.
A reconciliation of each non-GAAP measure referenced in this press release to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the tables provided as part of this news release.
This news release and the accompanying tables should be read in conjunction with additional content that is available on the Companys website, including a supplemental financial package as well as a webcast that the Company will host at 5 p.m. ET today to discuss its first quarter fiscal year 2009 results. The webcast will be archived on the website. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at or listen to the call at 1-877-809-1564. International participants can listen to the call at 1-706-634-8757.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA
CA (NASDAQ: CA) is the worlds leading independent IT management software company. With CA's Enterprise IT Management (EITM) vision and expertise, organizations can more effectively govern, manage and secure IT to optimize business performance and sustain competitive advantage. For more information, visit .
www.ca.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release, the accompanying tables and the additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, includes certain financial measures that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP metrics for operating expenses, operating income, operating margin, income from operations and diluted earnings per share exclude the following items: non-cash amortization of purchased software and other intangibles, charges for in-process research and development costs, restructuring and other charges and the gains and losses on hedges of operating income relating to future periods. Non-GAAP income also excludes the interest on convertible bonds. The effective tax rate on GAAP and non-GAAP income from operations is the Companys provision for income taxes expressed as a percentage of pre-tax GAAP and non-GAAP income from operations, respectively. Such tax rates are determined based on an estimated effective full year tax rate, with the effective tax rate for GAAP generally including the impact of discrete items in the quarter such items arise and the effective tax rate for Operating generally allocating the impact of such items pro rata to the fiscal years remaining reporting periods. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes restructuring and other payments. Free cash flow excludes capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this news release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, which are attached to this news release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements" that are based upon the beliefs of, and assumptions made by, the Companys management, as well as information currently available to management. These forward-looking statements reflect the Companys current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the timing of orders from customers and channel partners may cause fluctuations in some of the Companys key financial metrics; given the global nature of the Companys business, economic factors or political events beyond the Companys control can affect its business in unpredictable ways; changes to the compensation of the Companys sales organization and changes to the Companys sales coverage model and organization could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow; if the Company does not adequately manage and evolve its financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, including the successful implementation of its enterprise resource planning software, its ability to manage and grow its business may be harmed; the Company may encounter difficulty in successfully integrating acquired companies and products into its existing businesses; the Company is subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing and increased competition is expected in the future; the Companys business may suffer if it is not able to retain and attract qualified personnel, including key managerial, technical, marketing and sales personnel; failure to adapt to technological change in a timely manner could materially adversely affect the Companys revenue and earnings; if the Company's products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, it could lose customers and the demand for its products and services could decrease; the Company may lose access to third party operating systems or certain third party software that the Company uses in daily operations, either of which could delay product development and production; certain software the Company uses is from open source code sources, which, under certain circumstances, may lead to unintended consequences; discovery of errors in the Companys software could materially adversely affect the Companys revenue and earnings and subject the Company to product liability claims, which may be costly and time consuming; the Company's credit ratings have been downgraded in the past and could be downgraded further which would require the Company to pay additional interest under its credit agreement and could adversely affect its ability to borrow; the Company has a significant amount of debt; the failure to protect the Company's intellectual property rights and source code would weaken its competitive position; the Company may become dependent upon large transactions with customers; the Companys sales to government customers subject it to risks, including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties; the Companys software products and the Companys and customers data centers and IT environments may be subject to hacking or other breaches, harming the market perception of the effectiveness of the Companys products; general economic conditions may lead the Company's customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades; the market for some or all of the Company's key product areas may not grow; the use of third party microcode could negatively affect the Companys product development; the Company may lose access to third party operating systems, which could negatively affect the Companys product development; third parties could claim that the Company's products infringe their intellectual property rights or that the Company owes royalty payments; fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in translation losses; the Company has outsourced various functions to third parties and these arrangements may not be successful; potential tax liabilities may materially adversely affect the Companys results; and the other factors described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright  2008 CA, Inc. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP financial measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
CONTACT: CA, Inc. Public Relations: Dan Kaferle, 631-342-2111 or Investor Relations: Carol Lu, 212-415-6920
daniel.kaferle@ca.com
carol.lu@ca.com


