FILE:CA/CA-8K-20091104120034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 4, 2009, the Board of Directors of CA, Inc. elected Richard Sulpizio as a member of the Board. Mr. Sulpizio will serve as a member of the Compensation and Human Resources Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board. A copy of a press release announcing the election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., November 4, 2009  CA (NASDAQ:CA), the world's leading independent IT management software company, today announced that Richard Sulpizio has been elected to its Board of Directors effective immediately. Sulpizio also has been named to the Board's Compensation and Human Resources Committee and the Board's Corporate Governance Committee.
"Rich brings extensive international business experience and leadership as well as considerable operational expertise," said CA Executive Chairman Bill McCracken. "We are delighted to welcome him to the CA Board and look forward to his active participation."
Sulpizio's appointment increases the Board membership to 10, eight of whom are independent.
Sulpizio retired in July 2001 as president and chief operating officer of Qualcomm Inc., a leading mobile technologies company. After his retirement, Sulpizio returned to Qualcomm to serve in several successive high-level executive positions including, president of Qualcomm China, president of Qualcomm Europe and president and chief executive officer of MediaFLO, USA, Inc., a Qualcomm subsidiary chartered with bringing multimedia services to the wireless industry. Sulpizio was a member of Qualcomm's Board of Directors from 2000 until 2007.
Sulpizio, 59, has been serving as a director of ResMed, Inc., a global developer, manufacturer, and marketer of medical products, since August 2005. He also currently serves on the advisory board of the University of California San Diego's Sulpizio Family Cardiovascular Center and the Board of Directors of the Danny Thompson Memorial Leukemia Foundation.
Sulpizio holds a bachelor of arts degree from California State University, Los Angeles, and a master's degree in systems management from the University of Southern California.
About CA
CA (NASDAQ: CA), the world's leading independent IT management software company, helps customers optimize IT for better business results. CA's Enterprise IT Management solutions for mainframe and distributed computing enable Lean ITempowering organizations to more effectively govern, manage and secure their IT operations. For more information, visit .
www.ca.com
Connect with CA
 
Trademarks
Copyright  2009 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
Press contact:
Jennifer Hallahan Public Relations (212) 415-6924
jennifer.hallahan@ca.com


