FILE:CA/CA-8K-20090513164455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On May 13, 2009, CA, Inc. (CA) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

ISLANDIA, N.Y., May 13 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ --
CA, Inc. (NASDAQ:CA), the worlds leading independent IT management software company, today reported results for its fourth quarter and full 2009 fiscal year, ended March 31, 2009.
CA executed well in the face of a difficult economy, said John Swainson, CAs chief executive officer. We achieved strong earnings growth and growth in cash flow from operations in part because of the implementation of strong expense controls. We also continued to grow revenue in constant currency. While we are assuming a continuing downturn into at least the early part of fiscal year 2010, we are making significant investments in new and improved products and sales resources and we again are forecasting growth in revenues and earnings on a constant currency basis.  
Our concept of Lean IT is all about helping customers make their IT infrastructures nimble, efficient and a competitive advantage with a rapid time to value, Swainson continued. We cant predict when the recovery will begin, but we strongly believe technology will lead the way. Overall, I feel good about where we are and where we are heading.
CA earned GAAP net income for its fourth quarter of $72 million or $0.13 per diluted common share, flat compared with net income of $71 million or $0.13 per diluted common share reported a year earlier. For the full year, the Company reported GAAP net income of $694 million or $1.29 per diluted common share, compared with net income of $500 million or $0.93 per diluted common share in the prior fiscal year, representing a 39 percent increase in earnings per share.
 
 
 
CA reported non-GAAP net income of $169 million for the fourth quarter, or $0.31 per diluted common share, compared with $117 million, or $0.22 per diluted common share reported a year earlier, representing a 41 percent increase in non-GAAP earnings per share. For the full year, CA reported non-GAAP net income of $835 million, or $1.55 per diluted common share, compared with $642 million, or $1.19 per diluted common share, reported in the prior fiscal year, representing a 30 percent increase in non-GAAP earnings per share.
Total revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.035 billion, down 5 percent as reported, but up 2 percent in constant currency, from the $1.085 billion reported in the similar period last fiscal year. For the full fiscal year, revenue was $4.271 billion, virtually flat as reported, but up one percent in constant currency, from the $4.277 billion in revenue reported in the prior year.
In the fourth quarter, total North American revenue was up 6 percent as reported, or 7 percent in constant currency, while revenue from international operations was down 17 percent as reported, or 4 percent in constant currency, compared with the similar period last year. For the full year, North American revenue was up 3 percent as reported, or 4 percent in constant currency, while international operations were down 4 percent as reported, or 3 percent in constant currency.  (The impact of currency on revenue, as well as total bookings and total expenses before interest and income taxes is in Table 4 located at the end of the news release.)
Total bookings in the fourth quarter were $1.465 billion, down 3 percent as reported, or up 6 percent in constant currency, compared with $1.518 billion reported in the prior year comparable period. On a full year basis, total bookings were $5.245 billion, up 11 percent as reported, or up 15 percent in constant currency, from the $4.724 billion reported in the prior fiscal year. During the fourth quarter, the Company signed 20 license agreements with incremental values greater than $10 million for a total of $736 million compared with 19 license agreements totaling $557 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. Weighted average life of subscription and maintenance bookings for the fiscal year was 3.6 years, compared with 3 years in fiscal year 2008.
Total expenses, before interest and income taxes, for the fourth quarter were $855 million, a decrease of 9 percent as reported, or 3 percent in constant currency, compared with $935 million in the prior year period. In the fourth quarter, GAAP operating income, before interest and income taxes, was $180 million, up 20 percent from the $150 million reported in the prior year period and representing an operating margin of 17 percent, a 3 percentage point improvement from the prior year period.
For the full fiscal year, total expenses, before interest and income taxes, were $3.144 billion, a decrease of 8 percent both as reported and in constant currency, compared with $3.423 billion in the prior fiscal year. GAAP operating income, before interest and income taxes, for the full year was $1.127 billion, up 32 percent from the $854 million reported in the prior year period and representing an operating margin of 26 percent, a 6 percentage point improvement from the prior year period.
On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes purchased software and intangibles amortization, restructuring and other costs, and includes gains and losses since inception of hedges that mature within the quarter, but excludes gains and losses of hedges that do not mature within the quarter, the Company reported fourth quarter operating expenses of $721 million, down 13 percent as reported, or 6 percent in constant currency, from the $831 million reported in the prior year period. For the fourth quarter, non-GAAP operating income, before interest and income taxes, was $314 million, up 24 percent from the $254 million reported in the prior year period and representing a non-GAAP operating margin of 30 percent, a 7 percentage point improvement from the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008.
 
 
 
For the full year, non-GAAP operating expenses were $2.932 billion, down 8 percent as reported, or 7 percent in constant currency, from the $3.177 billion reported in the previous fiscal year. For the full fiscal year, non-GAAP operating income, before interest and income taxes, was $1.339 billion, up 22 percent from the $1.1 billion reported in the prior fiscal year and representing a non-GAAP operating margin of 31 percent, a 5 percentage point improvement from fiscal year 2008.
In the fourth quarter, the GAAP tax rate was 57 percent while the effective tax rate on non-GAAP income was 45 percent. For the full year, both the GAAP and the non-GAAP tax rates were 37 percent.
The Company reported cash flow from operations of $648 million in the fourth quarter, down 6 percent from the $690 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. For the full fiscal year, the Company reported cash flow from operations of $1.212 billion, up 10 percent from the $1.103 billion recorded in the 2008 fiscal year.
Capital Structure
The balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at March 31, 2009, was $2.713 billion. With $1.937 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company has a net cash position of $776 million.
Outlook for Fiscal Year 2010
The Company issued its outlook for fiscal year 2010. The following represents forward-looking statements (as defined below).
The Company expects the following:
Except as otherwise noted, guidance reflects current foreign currency exchange rates as of March 31, 2009. The outlook also assumes no material acquisitions and a partial currency hedge of operating income. The Company also expects a full-year tax rate of approximately 36 percent.
 
 
 
The Company anticipates approximately 517 million shares outstanding at fiscal 2010 year-end and a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 536 million for the fiscal year.
A reconciliation of each non-GAAP measure to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the tables provided as part of this press release.
This news release and the accompanying tables should be read in conjunction with additional content that is available on the Companys website, including a supplemental financial package as well as a webcast that the Company will host at 5 p.m. ET today to discuss its fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2009 results. The webcast will be archived on the website. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at or listen to the call at 1-877-852-6583. International participants can listen to the call at 1-719-325-4775.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA
CA (NASDAQ: CA) is the worlds leading independent IT management software company. With CA's Enterprise IT Management (EITM) vision and expertise, organizations can more effectively govern, manage and secure IT to optimize business performance and sustain competitive advantage. For more information, visit .
www.ca.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release, the accompanying tables and the additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, includes certain financial measures that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP metrics for operating expenses, operating income, operating margin, income from operations and diluted earnings per share exclude the following items: non-cash amortization of purchased software and other intangibles, charges for in-process research and development costs, restructuring and other charges and the gains and losses since inception of hedges that mature within the quarter, but excludes gains and losses of hedges that do not mature within the quarter. Non-GAAP income also excludes the interest on convertible bonds. The effective tax rate on GAAP and non-GAAP income is the Companys provision for income taxes expressed as a percentage of GAAP and non-GAAP income before income taxes, respectively.  Such tax rates reflect the statutory tax rate after the adjustments for the impacts of certain discrete items (such as decreases in non-US tax rates, reconciliations of tax returns to tax provisions and resolutions of tax contingencies). Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes restructuring and other payments. Free cash flow excludes capital expenditures. Constant currency calculations are performed by applying prior period foreign exchange rates to current period local currency balances. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this news release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, which are attached to this news release.
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
We have assessed and will continue to assess the impact on our business of the general economic downturn and the related impact on the financial services sector in particular. Approximately one third of our revenue comes from arrangements with financial institutions (i.e., banking, brokerage and insurance companies). The majority of these arrangements are for the renewal of mainframe capacity and maintenance associated with transactions processed by such financial institutions. While we cannot predict what impact there may be on our business from further consolidation of the financial industry sector, or the impact from the economy in general on our business, to date the impact has not been material to our balance sheet, results of operations or cash flows. The vast majority of our subscription and maintenance revenue in any particular reporting period comes from contracts signed in prior periods, generally pursuant to contracts ranging in duration from three to five years.
 
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements" that are based upon the beliefs of, and assumptions made by, the Company's management, as well as information currently available to management. These forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: global economic factors or political events beyond the Company's control; general economic conditions, including concerns regarding a global recession and credit constraints, or unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, industry or business sector; impact of revenue recognition accounting policies on operating results; failure to expand channel partner programs; ability to adequately manage and evolve financial reporting and managerial systems and processes; ability to successfully integrate acquired companies and products into existing businesses; competition in product and service offerings and pricing; ability to retain and attract qualified key personnel; rapid technological and market changes; dependence on third party operating systems and software; use of software from open source code sources; discovery of errors in the Company's software and potential product liability claims; significant amounts of debt and possible future credit rating changes; the failure to protect the Company's intellectual property rights and source code; the timing of orders from customers and channel partners; reliance upon large transactions with customers; sales to government customers; breaches of the Companys software products and the Companys and customers data centers and IT environments; lack of market growth in key product areas; use of third party microcode; third party claims of intellectual property infringement or royalty payments; fluctuations in foreign currencies; failure to successfully execute restructuring plans and related sales model changes; successful outsourcing of various functions to third parties; potential tax liabilities; and these factors and the other factors described more fully in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Company assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 
Copyright  2009 CA, Inc. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP financial measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP financial measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP financial measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
 
Refer to the discussion of Non-GAAP financial measures included in the accompanying press release for additional information.
 
 
 


