FILE:CA/CA-8K-20100623170515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 23, 2010, CA, Inc. issued a press release announcing the retirement of James E. Bryant, its Executive Vice President, Risk and Chief Administrative Officer, which will be effective June 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y. June 23, 2010  CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) today announced two senior appointments to further strengthen its management team as the company continues to build on its core strengths in IT management while positioning itself to successfully compete in high-growth markets including virtualization, cloud computing and Software-as-a-Service.
David Dobson, 47, will join CA Technologies in early July in the new role of executive vice president and group executive, Customer Solutions Group, reporting directly to CEO Bill McCracken. In this position, he will be responsible for ensuring the success of the company's customer solutions units. Previously, he was executive vice president and president at Pitney Bowes Management Services.
Phillip Harrington, 53, joins CA Technologies as executive vice president, risk and chief administrative officer. In this role, Harrington is responsible for the company's human resources, global administrative services, risk, global information services and government relations operations. He also reports directly to McCracken. Previously Harrington served as a director at Deloitte & Touche LLP, overseeing large clients in the areas of general management consulting, operational risk management and regulation. Harrington replaces James Bryant, 65, who retires at the end of the month.
"In David Dobson and Phil Harrington, we have brought to CA Technologies two extremely talented and experienced executives with proven track records to complement and strengthen our management team," said McCracken. "They will play key roles in helping attain our goal of being the industry thought and market leader in the management of IT environments that range from the mainframe to the cloud.
"We now have the management team and the organization in place to ensure the execution of our strategy to become a clear leader in helping our customers meet their most pressing technology challenges," McCracken added.
Dobson joined Pitney Bowes in 2008 as executive vice president and chief strategy and innovation officer. Previously he was the CEO of Corel Corporation, a leading global software company. Dobson spent 19 years at IBM where he held a number of senior positions including president and general manager, IBM Printing systems. He is a graduate of McMaster
 
University in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada with degrees in electrical engineering and management.
Prior to joining Deloitte & Touche in 2008, Harrington spent 20 years at Prudential Financial, Inc., where he served in a variety of executive roles, including global risk officer, chief compliance officer, and vice president of government relations. He holds a degree in psychology from Western Michigan University and a master's degree in social research and organizational behavior from Cornell University.
On Bryant's retirement McCracken commented, "Jim has been instrumental in putting in the plans, processes and discipline required to drive our costs down, increase our profitability and overall, make us a more effective organization. Personally, Jim has been invaluable to me as I have transitioned into the CEO role and we wish him well."
About CA Technologies
CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) is an IT management software and solutions company with expertise across all IT environments  from mainframe and distributed, to virtual and cloud. CA Technologies manages and secures IT environments and enables customers to deliver more flexible IT services. CA Technologies innovative products and services provide the insight and control essential for IT organizations to power business agility. The majority of the Global Fortune 500 relies on CA Technologies to manage evolving IT ecosystems. For additional information, visit CA Technologies at www.ca.com.
Follow CA Technologies
Legal Notices
Copyright  2010 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All other trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
Press contact:


