FILE:CA/CA-8K-20100506170050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
.
CA, Inc. (the "Company") previously disclosed in its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 28, 2010, that the Board of Directors of the Company elected William E. McCracken as the Executive Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective January 28, 2010.
On May 6, 2010, the Company and Mr. McCracken entered into a two-year employment agreement (the "Agreement") which will renew annually unless either party provides advance written notice otherwise. The Agreement includes a sign-on bonus of $1,300,000 intended to reflect a discretionary bonus for the portion of the fiscal year during which Mr. McCracken served as interim Executive Chairman and compensate him for increased personal living expenses he incurred during 2009 and expects to incur in his capacity as a full time employee of the Company. Under the Agreement, Mr. McCracken will be paid an initial annual base salary of $1,000,000 (payable in cash). With respect to the fiscal year that began April 1, 2009, Mr. McCracken is eligible to receive a targeted annual cash bonus of $1,250,000, which will be prorated to reflect the period from January 28, 2010 through March 31, 2010, and is subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's annual performance bonus program. With respect to the fiscal years that began on, and will begin after, April 1, 2010, Mr. McCracken is eligible to receive (i) a targeted annual cash bonus of $1,500,000 and (ii) a targeted long-term performance award of $5,000,000, subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's annual and long-term performance programs, respectively. Mr. McCracken is eligible to participate in all retirement, welfare and benefit plans and perquisites generally made available to other senior employees of the Company.
Mr. McCracken's employment may be terminated at any time in accordance with the Agreement. If Mr. McCracken's employment is terminated by the Company without "cause" or by Mr. McCracken for "good reason" (as those terms are defined in the Agreement) (i) he will receive his annual bonus for the year in which termination occurred, based on actual corporate performance, (ii) vesting of any outstanding awards of stock options will be accelerated (but such options may not be exercised prior to their original vesting dates or later than one year thereafter), and (iii) if his termination occurs prior to March 31, 2012, he will receive salary continuation through March 31, 2012. In addition to the amounts above, if Mr. McCracken is terminated prior to April 1, 2011, he will receive a one-time grant of 270,000 severance restricted stock units ("RSUs") and an additional cash payment equal to his annual bonus for the year in which termination occurred, based on actual corporate performance. If he is terminated after March 31, 2011, but prior to April 1, 2012, he will receive a one-time grant of 91,000 severance RSUs.
If the Company chooses not to extend Mr. McCracken's agreement, (i) he will receive his annual bonus for the year in which he received notice of non-renewal, based on actual corporate performance and (ii) vesting of any outstanding awards of stock options will be accelerated (but such options may not be exercised prior to their original vesting dates or later than one year thereafter). If the Company elects not to renew Mr. McCracken's employment for the one-year period beginning April 1, 2012 and ending March 31, 2013, he will receive a one-time grant of 91,000 severance RSUs. Any severance RSUs will be fully vested at the time of grant, but will not be settled or transferable, until 34%, 33% and 33% of the underlying shares of the Company's
 
common stock are delivered to him on the first, second and third anniversaries of his termination date, respectively.
The Company shall also indemnify and hold Mr. McCracken harmless for acts and omissions in connection with Mr. McCracken's employment to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law. Mr. McCracken is subject to standard non-compete and non-solicitation covenants during, and for the twelve-month period following, his employment with us.
The foregoing description of the Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Agreement (including any schedules and exhibits thereto), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 8.01
Other Events
.
On May 6, 2010, the Board of Directors appointed Arthur F. Weinbach as its non-executive Chairman of the Board. He succeeds William E. McCracken, who became the Company's Chief Executive Officer in January 2010, and who ceased to be Executive Chairman of the Board on May 6, 2010. He also succeeds Gary J. Fernandes, who served as the Company's Lead Independent Director during the three-month period when Mr. McCracken served as both executive Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. A copy of the Company's press release dated May 6, 2010 announcing these developments is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 10.1
     May 6, 2010
William E. McCracken CA, Inc. World Headquarters One CA Plaza Islandia, New York 11749
     Re: Employment Agreement
Dear Bill:
     This is your (the "") with , a Delaware corporation (the ""). It sets forth the terms of your employment with the Company and its affiliates from time to time (together, the "").
Employment Agreement
Agreement
CA, Inc.
Company
Group
1. Your Position, Performance and Other Activities
     (a) . You will be employed in the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Company. You agree to serve as a member of the Company's Board of Directors (the ""), as well as a member of any Board committee to which you may be elected or appointed, and the Company agrees to nominate you to serve as a member of the Board during the term of your employment under this Agreement.
Position
Board
     (b) . You will have the authority, responsibilities and reporting relationships that correspond to your position, including any particular authority, responsibilities and reporting relationships consistent with your position that the Board may assign to you from time to time and compliance with such policies of the Company as may be adopted from time to time.
Authority, Responsibilities and Reporting
     (c) . During your employment, you will devote substantially all of your business time and attention to the Group and will use good faith efforts to discharge your responsibilities under this Agreement to the best of your ability. During your employment, your place of performance will be Islandia, New York and New York, New York or such other place as the Board determines.
Performance
     (d) . During your employment, you will not render any business, commercial or professional services to any non-member of the Group. However, you may (1) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards, (2) manage personal investments, or (3) deliver lectures, or fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions, (A) these activities do not interfere with your performance of your responsibilities under this Agreement and (B) any service on a corporate, civic or charitable board is approved by the Board.
Other Activities
so long as
 
2. Term of Your Employment
     Your employment under this Agreement (a) began on January 28, 2010 (the "" of this Agreement) and (b) will end at the close of business on the earlier of (1) the end of the Compensation Period or (2) the effective date of early termination of your employment. Your "" begins on your Start Date and is initially scheduled to end on March 31, 2012. Beginning on April 1, 2012 and on April 1 of each following year, your Compensation Period will automatically extend for one year unless either you or the Company gives at least 90 days' prior notice of non-extension (a ""). References in this Agreement to "" are to your employment under this Agreement.
Start Date
Compensation Period
Notice of Non-Renewal
your employment
3. Your Compensation
     (a) . During your employment, you will receive an annual base salary (as increased from time to time, your ""). Prior to March 15, 2010, your only Salary shall be paid to you pursuant to your existing pay arrangements as Interim Executive Chairman of the Company. Following March 15, 2010, the amount of your Salary will be $1,000,000. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "") may, in its discretion, increase your Salary in connection with its normal review process. Your Salary will be paid in accordance with the Group's normal practices for senior executives.
Salary
Salary
Compensation Committee
     (b) .
Bonus
     (1) For the period beginning on the Start Date and ending on March 31, 2010, you will be eligible to receive an initial annual cash bonus (your ""). The target level for your Initial Bonus will be 125% of your Salary (your ""), and payment will be equal to your Target Initial Bonus the number of days between your Start Date and March 31, 2010 365 (your ""). Your Initial Annual Bonus will be paid at the same time as such bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company.
Initial Bonus
Target Initial Bonus
multiplied by
divided by
Initial Annual Bonus
     (2) Beginning with the Company's 2011 fiscal year, you will be eligible to receive an annual cash bonus (your "") for each fiscal year of the Company ending during your employment. The target level for your Bonus in each full fiscal year of your employment will be at least 150% of your Salary (the ""). Performance metrics used in determining your Bonus payment will be determined annually by the Compensation Committee and communicated to you no later than three months into the annual performance period. Your Bonus will be paid at the same time as such bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company.
Bonus
Target Annual Bonus
     (c) . Beginning with the Company's 2011 fiscal year, you will be eligible to receive long-term incentive awards ("") as determined by the Company in accordance with the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (and any successor plan). The target award level under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan for (i) the Company's 2011 fiscal year will be $5,000,000, and (ii) for the Company's 2012 fiscal year, and each year thereafter during your employment, will be no less than $5,000,000. Performance metrics used in determining your Long-Term Incentive Award payment will be
Long-Term Incentive Awards
Long-Term Incentive Awards
 
determined annually by the Compensation Committee and communicated to you no later than three months into the annual performance period. Your Long-Term Incentive Awards will be made at the same time as such awards are made to other senior executives of the Company.
     (d) . Within 30 days following May 6, 2010, you shall receive a sign-on bonus equal to $1,300,000.
Sign-On Bonus
4. Other Employee Benefits
     (a) . You will be entitled to paid annual vacation consistent with the Company's current policy.
Vacation
     (b) . You will be reimbursed for all business and entertainment expenses incurred by you in performing your responsibilities under this Agreement. Any such reimbursements under this Section 4(b) shall be subject to the Group's normal practice for senior executives and will be paid to you as soon as practicable but in no event later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which such reimbursable expenses were incurred.
Business Expenses
     (c) . During your employment, you will be provided with office space, facilities, secretarial support and other business services consistent with your position on a basis that is at least as favorable as that provided to other senior executives of the Group.
Facilities
     (d) . To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Company will indemnify you against any actual or threatened action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, arising by reason of your status as a director, officer, employee and/or agent of the Group during your employment. In addition, to the maximum extent permitted by law, the Company will pay or reimburse any expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, you incur in investigating and defending any actual or threatened action, suit or proceeding for which you may be entitled to indemnification under this Section 4(d). However, you agree to repay any expenses paid or reimbursed by the Company if it is ultimately determined that you are not legally entitled to be indemnified by the Company. If the Company's ability to make any payment contemplated by this Section 4(d) depends on an investigation or determination by the board of directors of any member of the Group, at your request the Company will use its best efforts to cause the investigation to be made (at the Company's expense) and to have the relevant board reach a determination as soon as reasonably possible. This indemnification will be at least as favorable as that provided to other senior executives and directors of the Group.
Indemnification
     (e) . During your employment, you will be eligible to participate in the Group's employee benefit and welfare plans, including plans providing retirement benefits, medical, dental, hospitalization, life or disability insurance and 401(k) plan on a basis that is at least as favorable as that provided to other senior executives of the Group. You shall continue your current participation in the Company's Change in Control Severance Policy (the ""), provided that such participation and any other terms and conditions related to such participation shall be at the discretion of the Board in accordance with the terms of such CIC Severance Policy.
Employee Benefit Plans
CIC Severance Policy
 
5. Early Termination of Your Employment
     (a) . You or the Company may terminate your employment early at any time for any reason, or for no reason, subject to compliance with Section 5(e).
No Reason Required
     (b) .
Termination by the Company for Cause
     (1) "" means any of the following:
Cause
     (A) Your continued failure, either due to willful action or as a result of gross neglect, to substantially perform your duties and responsibilities to the Company and its affiliates (the "") under this Agreement (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental illness) that, if capable of being cured, has not been cured within thirty (30) days after written notice is delivered to you, which notice specifies in reasonable detail the manner in which the Company believes you have not substantially performed your duties and responsibilities.
Group
     (B) Your engagement in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Group, or that materially harms the reputation or financial position of the Group, unless the conduct in question was undertaken in good faith on an informed basis with due care and with a rational business purpose and based upon the honest belief that such conduct was in the best interest of the Group
     (C) Your indictment or conviction of, or plea of guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony or any other crime involving dishonesty, fraud or moral turpitude.
     (D) Your being found liable in any SEC or other civil or criminal securities law action or entering any cease and desist order with respect to such action (regardless of whether or not you admit or deny liability).
     (E) Your breach of your fiduciary duties to the Group which may reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Group. However, to the extent the breach is curable, the Company must give you notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure.
     (F) Your (i) obstructing or impeding, (ii) endeavoring to influence, obstruct or impede or (iii) failing to materially cooperate with, any investigation authorized by the Board or any governmental or self-regulatory entity (an ""). However, your failure to waive attorney-client privilege relating to communications with your own attorney in connection with an Investigation shall not constitute "Cause."
Investigation
     (G) Your purposely withholding, removing, concealing, destroying, altering or by any other means falsifying any material which is requested in connection with an Investigation.
 
     (H) Your disqualification or bar by any governmental or self-regulatory authority from serving in the capacity contemplated by this Agreement or your loss of any governmental or self-regulatory license that is reasonably necessary for you to perform your responsibilities to the Group under this Agreement, if (a) the disqualification, bar or loss continues for more than thirty (30) days and (b) during that period, the Group uses its good faith efforts to cause the disqualification or bar to be lifted or the license replaced. While any disqualification, bar or loss continues during your employment, you will serve in the capacity contemplated by this Agreement to whatever extent legally permissible and, if your employment is not permissible, you will be placed on leave (which will be paid to the extent legally permissible).
     (I) Your unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, or related materials, or the violation of any of the terms of the Employment and Confidentiality Agreement executed by you or any Company standard confidentiality policies and procedures, which may reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Group and that, if capable of being cured, has not been cured within thirty (30) days after written notice is delivered to you by the Company, which notice specifies in reasonable detail the alleged unauthorized use or disclosure or violation.
     (J) Your violation of the Group's (i) Workplace Violence Policy or (ii) policies on discrimination, unlawful harassment or substance abuse.
For this definition, no act or omission by you will be "willful" unless it is made by you in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that your act or omission was in the best interests of the Group.
     (c) 
Termination by you for Good Reason.
     (1) "" means any of the following:
Good Reason
     (A) Any material and adverse change in your title;
     (B) Any material and adverse reduction in your authorities or responsibilities, or your not being a direct report to the Board, other than any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure by the Company that is not in bad faith and is cured promptly on you giving the Company notice;
     (C) Any material reduction by the Company in your Base Salary or target level of Annual Bonus and Long-Term Incentive Awards as set forth in Sections 3(a), (b) and (c), respectively, other than any such reduction agreed to by you in writing; or
     (D) The Company's material breach of this Agreement, including without limitation, a breach of Section 11(c) or any purported termination by the Company of your employment that is in breach of this Agreement.
 
     ; provided that (i) no alleged action, reduction or breach set forth in Sections 5(c)(1)(A)  (D) above shall be deemed to constitute "Good Reason" unless such action, reduction or breach remains uncured, as the case may be, after the expiration of thirty (30) days following delivery to the Company from you of a written notice, setting forth such course of conduct deemed by you to constitute "Good Reason"; (ii) such written notice must be delivered to the Company within ninety (90) days after you obtain knowledge of such breach constituting "Good Reason"; and (iii) you must terminate employment within two years after you obtain knowledge of such breach constituting "Good Reason". The Company's placing you on paid leave for up to ninety (90) consecutive days while it is determining whether there is a basis to terminate your employment for Cause will not constitute "Good Reason."
     (d) .
Termination on Disability or Death
     (1) The term "" means your absence from your responsibilities with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 business days in any consecutive 12 months as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness or injury. If a doctor mutually acceptable to you and the Company determines in good faith that your Disability has occurred, the Company may give you a Termination Notice. If within 30 days of the Termination Notice you do not return to full-time performance of your responsibilities, your employment will terminate. If you do return to full-time performance in that 30-day period, the Termination Notice will be cancelled for all purposes of this Agreement. Except as provided in this Section 5(d), your incapacity due to mental or physical illness or injury will not affect the Company's obligations under this Agreement.
Disability
     (2) Your employment will terminate automatically on your death. If you die before your employment starts, all the provisions of this Agreement will also terminate and there will be no liability of any kind under this Agreement.
     (e) . Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company and you each acknowledge and agree that your employment with the Company may be terminated by either the Company upon 30 days' written notice to you (subject to the provisions of Section 6 of this Agreement) or by you upon 90 days' written notice to the Company (subject to the provisions of Section 6 of this Agreement), at any time and for any reason, with or without cause or Good Reason; provided that this Agreement may be terminated immediately for Cause upon written notice from the Company, subject to compliance with the following sentence. To terminate you for Cause the Company must deliver to you a copy of a resolution duly adopted by a majority of the entire Board (excluding you) at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to you and a reasonable opportunity for you and your counsel to be heard) that finds that in the good faith opinion of the Board, Cause has occurred and states the basis for that belief. In addition, this Agreement shall automatically terminate upon your death or disability (determined in accordance with the Company's practices and policies). The Company may determine to waive all or part of your 90 days' notice period at its discretion. Upon termination of your employment for any reason whatsoever, the Company shall have no further obligations to you other than those set forth in Section 6 of this Agreement and the continuing obligation to indemnify you as provided in Section 4(d). The effective date of the Employee's termination of employment shall be referred to herein as the "."
Advance Notice Generally Required
Termination Date
 
6. The Company's Obligations in Connection With Your Termination
     (a) . On termination in accordance with Sections 2 and 5, your employment will end and the Group will have no further obligations to you except as provided in this Section 6 and the continuing obligation to indemnify you as provided in Section 4(d).
General Effect
     (b) . If, during your Compensation Period, the Company terminates your employment without Cause or you terminate your employment for Good Reason:
By the Company Without Cause or By You With Good Reason
     (1) The Company will pay you the following as of the end of your employment: (i) your unpaid Salary through the date of termination, (ii) any accrued but unpaid expense reimbursement, (iii) any unpaid but awarded Bonus and (iv) any vested benefits and other amounts that you are otherwise entitled to receive under any employee benefit plan, policy, practice or program of the Company or any of its affiliates, shall be payable in accordance with such employee benefit plan, policy, practice or program, as the case may be, provided that you shall not be entitled to receive any other payments or benefits in the nature of severance or termination pay, except as otherwise provided herein ("").
Accrued Benefits
     (2) Any unvested stock options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock granted to you by the Group shall immediately vest as of the date of your termination, but will not be exercisable prior to their original vesting date set forth in the award agreement governing such stock options. Each individual tranche of stock options shall remain exercisable for a period of one (1) year following their original vesting date.
     (3) You will be eligible to receive the full Bonus for the fiscal year in which termination occurs, payable at the time bonuses are normally paid and based upon actual performance of the Company; and
     (4) If your termination occurs on or prior to March 31, 2012, the Company will continue to pay your Salary in accordance with the Company's normal payroll practices through March 31, 2012.
     (5) In addition to the amounts specified in Sections 6(b)(1)  (4) above, if your termination occurs on or prior to March 31, 2011:
     (A) you shall receive an additional payment in an amount equal to the payment, if any, under Section 6(b)(3) above, payable at the same time the payment under Section 6(b)(3) is paid; and
     (B) in recognition of the lost value of your Long-Term Incentive Awards for any incomplete performance cycles, the Company will award you restricted stock units with respect to 270,000 shares of the Company's common stock ( ""), to be granted under the Company's 2007 Incentive Plan. Your RSUs will be fully vested at the time of grant, but will not be settled or transferable, until 34%, 33% and 33% of the underlying shares of the Company's
RSUs
 
common stock are delivered to you on the first, second and third anniversaries of your termination date, respectively.
     (6) In addition to the amounts specified in Sections 6(b)(1)  (4) above, if your termination occurs after March 31, 2011, but on or prior to March 31, 2012:
     (A) in recognition of the lost value of your Long-Term Incentive Awards for any incomplete performance cycles, the Company will award you RSUs with respect to 91,000 shares of the Company's common stock, to be granted under the Company's 2007 Incentive Plan. Your RSUs will be fully vested at the time of grant, but will not be settled or transferable, until 34%, 33% and 33% of the underlying shares of the Company's common stock are delivered to you on the first, second and third anniversaries of your termination date, respectively.
     (7) All other outstanding awards will be governed by the terms of the applicable plans and award agreements; provided that, in the case of outstanding one-year and three-year performance awards under the Company's 2007 Incentive Plan, you shall be eligible for special retirement vesting under the provisions of such plan.
     (c) . If the Company elects not to renew your Compensation Period in accordance with Section 2:
Company Non-Renewal of Compensation Period
     (1) The Company will pay you your Accrued Benefits and Salary through the end of the Compensation Period.
     (2) You will be eligible to receive the full Bonus for the fiscal year in which termination occurs, payable at time bonuses are normally paid and based upon actual performance of the Company.
     (3) Any unvested stock options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock granted to you by the Group shall immediately vest as of the date of your termination, but will not be exercisable prior to their original vesting date set forth in the award agreement governing such stock options. Each individual tranche of stock options shall remain exercisable for a period of one (1) year following their original vesting date.
     (4) In addition to the amounts specified in Sections 6(c)(1)  (3) above, if the Company elects not to renew your Compensation Period for the one-year period beginning April 1, 2012 and ending March 31, 2013, in recognition of the lost value of your Long-Term Incentive Awards for any incomplete performance cycles, the Company will award you RSUs with respect to 91,000 shares of the Company's common stock, to be granted under the Company's 2007 Incentive Plan. Your RSUs will be fully vested at the time of grant, but will not be settled or transferable, until 34%, 33% and 33% of the underlying shares of the Company's common stock are delivered to you on the first, second and third anniversaries of your termination date, respectively.
     (5) All other outstanding awards will be governed by the terms of the applicable plans and award agreements; provided that, in the case of outstanding one-year
 
and three-year performance awards under the Company's 2007 Incentive Plan, you shall be eligible for special retirement vesting under the provisions of such plan.
     (d) . If the Company terminates your employment for Cause or you terminate your employment for any reason other than for Good Reason after providing 90 days' written notice, the Company will pay your Accrued Benefits.
For Cause or Resignation
     (e) . If, during the Compensation Period, your employment terminates as a result of your death or Disability:
For Your Disability or Death
     (1) The Company will pay your Accrued Benefits.
     (2) The Company will pay you a prorated Bonus for the fiscal year in which death or Disability occurs, payable at time bonuses are normally paid and based upon actual performance of the Company.
     (3) Any unvested stock options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock granted to you by the Group shall immediately vest as of the date of your death or Disability, and shall remain exercisable for a period of one (1) year following the date of your death or Disability.
     (4) All other outstanding awards will be governed by the terms of the applicable plans and award agreements.
     (f) . If there is a "Change in Control," as defined in the CIC Severance Policy, and you are entitled to the payments and benefits provided in the CIC Severance Policy they will reduce (but not below zero) the corresponding payment or benefit provided under this Agreement. It is the intent of this provision to pay or to provide to you the greater of the two payments or benefits but not to duplicate them.
Change in Control
     (g) . The Company will not be required to make the payments and provide the benefits stated in this Section 6, unless within fifty-five (55) days following the termination of your employment you execute and deliver to the Company, and do not revoke, an agreement releasing from all liability (other than the payments and benefits contemplated by this Agreement) each member of the Group and any of their respective past or present officers, directors, employees or agents. This agreement will be in the form normally used by the Group senior executives at the time.
Condition
     (h) . The payments and benefits provided in this Section 6 will begin within sixty (60) days of the end of your employment, subject to your compliance with the requirements of Section 6(g), but in any event no later than two and one-half (2 /) months following the end of the year in which your employment terminates.
Timing
1
2
     (i) . In the event that after the date hereof and the date of your termination of employment the Company adjusts outstanding RSUs pursuant to Section 5.3 of the Company's 2007 Incentive Plan, then the number of shares of the Company's common stock underlying your RSU awards in Sections 6(b)(5)(B), 6(b)(6)(A) or 6(c)(4) of this Agreement shall be subject to the same such adjustment. Any Bonus or Long-Term Incentive Award
Adjustment
 
Payment to be made after your termination of employment shall be subject to negative discretion as determined by the Board; provided, however, that negative discretion shall only be applied if, and to the extent, it is applied generally to the executive management team.
7. Proprietary Information
     (a) . "" means confidential or proprietary information, knowledge or data concerning (1) the Group's businesses, strategies, operations, financial affairs, organizational matters, personnel matters, budgets, business plans, marketing plans, studies, policies, procedures, products, ideas, processes, software systems, trade secrets and technical know-how, (2) any other matter relating to the Group and (3) any matter relating to clients of the Group or other third parties having relationships with the Group. Proprietary Information includes (1) information regarding any aspect of your tenure as an employee of the Group or the termination of your employment, (2) the names, addresses, and phone numbers and other information concerning clients and prospective clients of the Group, (3) investment techniques and trading strategies used in, and the performance records of, client accounts or other investment products, and (4) information and materials concerning the personal affairs of employees of the Group. In addition, Proprietary Information may include information furnished to you orally or in writing (whatever the form or storage medium) or gathered by inspection, in each case before or after the date of this Agreement. , Proprietary Information does not include information (1) that was or becomes generally available to the public, other than as a result of a disclosure by you, directly or indirectly, or as a result of the violation by a third party of the Group's confidentiality rights, or (2) that you can establish was independently developed by you without reference to any Proprietary Information.
Definition
Proprietary Information
However
     (b) . You will obtain or create Proprietary Information in the course of your involvement in the Group's activities and may already have Proprietary Information. You agree that the Proprietary Information is the exclusive property of the Group, and that, during your employment, you will use and disclose Proprietary Information only for the Group's benefit and in accordance with any restrictions placed on its use or disclosure by the Group. After your employment, you will not use or disclose any Proprietary Information. In addition, nothing in this Agreement will operate to weaken or waive any rights that the Group may have under statutory or common law, or any other agreement, to the protection of trade secrets, confidential business information and other confidential information.
Use and Disclosure
     (c) . Nothing in this Agreement prohibits you from providing truthful testimony or information concerning the Group to governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory authorities. Also, the parties (and their respective employees, representatives and agents) may disclose to any and all persons, without any limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of this Agreement and all materials of any kind (including opinions and other tax analysis) that are provided to either party related to such tax treatment and structure.
Limitations
8. Ongoing Restrictions on Your Activities
     (a) . This Section 8 applies during your employment and for the 24-month period after your employment ends. This Section uses the following defined terms:
General Effect
 
     "" means any business enterprise that either (1) engages in any material activity that competes anywhere with any material activity in which the Group is then engaged or (2) holds a 5% or greater equity, voting or profit participation interest in any enterprise that engages in such a competitive activity.
Competitive Enterprise
     "" means any client or prospective client of the Group to whom you provided services, or for whom you transacted business, or whose identity became known to you in connection with your relationship with or employment by the Group.
Client
     "" means any direct or indirect communication of any kind, regardless of who initiates it, that in any way invites, advises, encourages or requests any person to take or refrain from taking any action. A general employment advertisement by an entity of which you are a part is excluded from the definition of Solicit.
Solicit
     (b) . You acknowledge that:
Your Importance to the Group and the Effect of this Section 8
     (1) In the course of your involvement in the Group's activities, you will have access to Proprietary Information and the Group's client base and will profit from the goodwill associated with the Group. On the other hand, in view of your access to Proprietary Information and your importance to the Group, if you compete with the Group for some time after your employment, the Group will likely suffer significant harm. In return for the benefits you will receive from the Group and to induce the Group to enter into this Agreement, and in light of the potential harm you could cause the Group, you agree to the provisions of this Section 8. The Company would not have entered into this Agreement if you did not agree to this Section 8.
     (2) In light of Section 8(b)(1), if you breach any provision of this Section 8, the loss to the Company would be material but the amount of loss would be uncertain and not readily ascertainable.
     (3) This Section 8 limits your ability to earn a livelihood in a Competitive Enterprise and your relationships with Clients. You acknowledge, however, that complying with this Section 8 will not result in severe economic hardship for you or your family.
     (c) . If you fail to comply with this Section 8 during the Compensation Period and for a 24-month period thereafter, you will forfeit all remaining payments owed to you under Section 6.
Your Payment Obligations
     (d) . During your Compensation Period and for a 24-month period after termination of your employment, you will not directly or indirectly:
Non-Competition
     (1) hold a 10% or greater equity, voting or profit participation interest in a Competitive Enterprise; or
 
     (2) associate (including as a director, officer, employee, partner, consultant, agent or advisor) with a Competitive Enterprise and in connection with your association engage, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel engaged, in any activity:
     (A) that is substantially related to any activity that you were engaged in,
     (B) that is substantially related to any activity for which you had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility, or
     (C) that calls for the application of specialized knowledge or skills substantially related to those used by you in your activities;
     , for the Group at any time during the year before the end of your employment (or, if earlier, the year before the date of determination).
in each case
     (e) . During your Compensation Period and for a 24-month period after termination of your employment, you will not attempt to:
Non-Solicitation of Clients
     (1) Solicit any Client to transact business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Group (excluding any business that is not a material activity of the Group),
     (2) transact business with any Client that would cause you to be a Competitive Enterprise or that would cause any Client to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Group, or
     (3) interfere with or damage any relationship between the Group and a Client.
     (f) . During your Compensation Period and for a 24-month period after termination of your employment, you will not attempt to Solicit anyone who is then an employee of the Group (or who was an employee of the Group within the prior three (3) months) to resign from the Group or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise, except that you may Solicit your administrative assistant.
Non-Solicitation of Group Employees
     (g) . Before you either apply for or accept employment with any other person or entity while any of Section 8(d), (e) or (f) is in effect, you will provide the prospective employer with written notice of the provisions of this Section 8 and will deliver a copy of the notice to the Group.
Notice to New Employers
9. No Public Statements or Disparagement
You agree that you will not make any public statement that would libel, slander or disparage any member of the Group or any of their respective past or present officers, directors, employees or agents. This Section 9 is subject to Section 7(c).
 
10. Effect on Other Agreements; Entire Agreement
This Agreement along with your Interim Executive Chairman pay arrangements are the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to the relationship contemplated by this Agreement and supersedes any earlier agreement, written or oral, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. In entering into this Agreement, no party has relied on or made any representation, warranty, inducement, promise or understanding that is not in this Agreement. You hereby acknowledge that you are not subject to any obligation which would in any way restrict the performance of your duties hereunder.
11. Successors
     (a) . If you die and any amounts become payable under this Agreement, we will pay those amounts to your estate.
Payments on Your Death
     (b) . You may not assign this Agreement without the Company's consent. Also, except as required by law, your right to receive payments or benefits under this Agreement may not be subject to execution, attachment, levy or similar process. Any attempt to effect any of the preceding in violation of this Section 11(b), whether voluntary or involuntary, will be void.
Assignment by You
     (c) . Before the effectiveness of any merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction (including an exchange offer combined with a merger or consolidation) involving the Company (a "") or any sale, lease or other disposition (including by way of a series of transactions or by way of merger, consolidation, stock sale or similar transaction involving one or more subsidiaries) of all or substantially all of the Company's consolidated assets (a ""), the Company will cause (1) the Surviving Company to unconditionally assume this Agreement in writing and (2) a copy of the assumption to be provided to you. After the Reorganization or Sale, the Surviving Company will be treated for all purposes as the Company under this Agreement. The "" means (i) in a Reorganization, the entity resulting from the Reorganization or (ii) in a Sale, the entity that has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Assumption by any Surviving Company
Reorganization
Sale
Surviving Company
12. Disputes
     (a) . This Section 12 applies to any controversy or claim between you and the Group arising out of or relating to or concerning this Agreement or any aspect of your employment with the Group or the Seller or the termination of that employment (together, an "").
Employment Matter
Employment Matter
     However, the rules will be modified in the following ways: (1) the decision must not be a compromise but must be the adoption of the submission by one of the parties, (2) each arbitrator will agree to treat as confidential evidence and other information presented to the same extent as the information is required to be kept confidential under Section 7, (3) there will be no authority to amend or modify the terms of this Agreement except as
(b) 
Mandatory Arbitration
. Subject to the provisions of this Section 12, any Employment Matter will be finally settled by arbitration in the County of New York administered by the American Arbitration Association under its Commercial Arbitration Rules then in effect.
 
provided in Section 14(c) (and you and the Group agree not to request any such amendment or modification), (4) a decision must be rendered within 10 business days of the parties' closing statements or submission of post-hearing briefs and (5) the arbitration will be conducted before a panel of three arbitrators, one selected by you within 10 days of the commencement of arbitration, one selected by the Company in the same period and the third selected jointly by these arbitrators (or, if they are unable to agree on an arbitrator within 30 days of the commencement of arbitration, the third arbitrator will be appointed by the American Arbitration Association; that the arbitrator shall be a partner or former partner at a nationally recognized law firm).
provided
     
(c) 
Limitation on Damages
. You and the Group agree that there will be no punitive damages payable as a result of any Employment Matter and agree not to request punitive damages.
     (d) . You or the Group may bring an action or special proceeding in a state or federal court of competent jurisdiction sitting in the County of New York to enforce any arbitration award under Section 12(b). Also, the Group may bring such an action or proceeding, in addition to its rights under Section 12(b) and whether or not an arbitration proceeding has been or is ever initiated, to temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enforce any part of Sections 7 and 8. You agree that (1) your violating any part of Sections 7 and 8 would cause damage to the Group that cannot be measured or repaired, (2) the Group therefore is entitled to an injunction, restraining order or other equitable relief restraining any actual or threatened violation of those Sections, (3) no bond will need to be posted for the Group to receive such an injunction, order or other relief, (4) no proof will be required that monetary damages for violations of those Sections would be difficult to calculate and that remedies at law would be inadequate and (5) the General Counsel of the Company is irrevocably appointed as your agent for service of process in connection with any such action or proceeding (the General Counsel will promptly advise you of any such service of process).
Injunctions and Enforcement of Arbitration Awards
     (e) This includes any action or proceeding to compel arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. Both you and the Group (1) acknowledge that the forum stated in this Section 12(e) has a reasonable relation to this Agreement and to the relationship between you and the Group and that the submission to the forum will apply even if the forum chooses to apply non-forum law, (2) waive, to the extent permitted by law, any objection to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any action or proceeding covered by this Section 12(e) in the forum stated in this Section, (3) agree not to commence any such action or proceeding in any forum other than the forum stated in this Section 12(e) and (4) agree that, to the extent permitted by law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such action or proceeding in any such court will be conclusive and binding on you and the Group. However, nothing in this Agreement precludes you or the Group from bringing any action or proceeding in any court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of Sections 12(b) and this 12(e).
Jurisdiction and Choice of Forum
. You and the Group irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of any state or federal court located in the County of New York over any Employment Matter that is not otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to Section 
12(b)
.
     
(f) 
Waiver of Jury Trial
. To the extent permitted by law, you and the Group waive any and all rights to a jury trial with respect to any Employment Matter.
 
     
(g) 
Governing Law
. This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within that State.
     (h) . To the extent permitted by law, the Company will reimburse any reasonable expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, you incur as a result of any Employment Matter, provided that you prevail on a material issue in such dispute. Additionally, the Company will reimburse your reasonable attorneys' fees, not to exceed $50,000, incurred to negotiate this Employment Agreement. Any reimbursements made to you by the Company under this Section 12(h) will be paid to you as soon as practicable but in no event later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which such reimbursable expenses were incurred.
Costs
13. Representations.
     (a) You represent that your employment hereunder will not violate any law or duty by which you are bound, and will not conflict with or violate any agreement or instrument to which you are a party or by which you are bound.
     (b) You acknowledge that (1) all cash and equity incentive awards granted to you shall be subject to recapture under the Company's clawback policy as currently in effect and as may be amended from time to time and (2) you will be subject to the Company's stock ownership guidelines as currently in effect and as may be amended from time to time.
     (a) .
Construction
     (1) References (A) to are to sections of this Agreement unless otherwise stated; (B) to any (including this Agreement) are to the contract as amended, modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time; (C) to any , or are to the statute, rule or regulation as amended, modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time (and, in the case of statutes, include any rules and regulations promulgated under the statute) and to any include any successor to the section; (D) to any include any successor to the governmental authority; (E) to any include any programs, practices and policies; (F) to any include any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, business trust and similar organization and include any governmental authority; and (G) to any of any entity are to any person or other entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with the first entity.
Sections
contract
statute
rule
regulation
section of any statute, rule or regulation
governmental authority
plan
entity
affiliate
     (2) The various in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and in no way define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions or Sections of this Agreement.
headings
     (3) Unless the context requires otherwise, (A) words describing the singular number include the plural and , (B) words denoting any gender include all
vice versa
 
genders and (C) the words "" "" and "" will be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation."
include,
includes
including
     (4) It is your and the Group's intention that this Agreement not be construed more strictly with regard to you or the Group.
     (b) . You and the Group will treat all payments to you under this Agreement as compensation for services. Accordingly, the Group may withhold from any payment any taxes that are required to be withheld under any law, rule or regulation.
Withholding
     (c) . If any provision of this Agreement is found by any court of competent jurisdiction (or legally empowered agency) to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable for any reason, then (1) the provision will be amended automatically to the minimum extent necessary to cure the illegality or invalidity and permit enforcement and (2) the remainder of this Agreement will not be affected. In particular, if any provision of Section 8 is so found to violate law or be unenforceable because it applies for longer than a maximum permitted period or to greater than a maximum permitted area, it will be automatically amended to apply for the maximum permitted period and maximum permitted area.
Severability
     (d) . Except as provided in Section 8(c) or if your employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, your and the Company's respective obligations under this Agreement will not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment or other right you or any member of the Group may have against each other or anyone else. You do not need to seek other employment or take any other action to mitigate any amounts owed to you under this Agreement.
No Set-off or Mitigation
     (e) . All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement must be in writing and will be deemed given (1) on the business day sent, when delivered by hand or facsimile transmission (with confirmation) during normal business hours, (2) on the business day after the business day sent, if delivered by a nationally recognized overnight courier or (3) on the third business day after the business day sent if delivered by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, in each case to the following address or number (or to such other addresses or numbers as may be specified by notice that conforms to this Section 14(e)):
Notices
     If to you, to your address then on file with the Company's payroll department.
     If to the Company or any other member of the Group, to:
CA, Inc. World Headquarters One CA Plaza Islandia, New York 11749 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile: (631) 342-4865
 
     (f) . This Agreement is in consideration of the mutual covenants contained in it. You and the Group acknowledge the receipt and sufficiency of the consideration to this Agreement and intend this Agreement to be legally binding.
Consideration
     (g) . Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived but only if the amendment or waiver is in writing and signed, in the case of an amendment, by you and the Company or, in the case of a waiver, by the party that would have benefited from the provision waived. Except as this Agreement otherwise provides, no failure or delay by you or the Group to exercise any right or remedy under this Agreement will operate as a waiver, and no partial exercise of any right or remedy will preclude any further exercise.
Amendments and Waivers
     (h) . Subject to Section 11, this Agreement will be binding on, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns. This Agreement does not confer any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities to any entity or person other than you and the Company and your and the Company's permitted successors and assigns, (1) this Agreement will inure to the benefit of the Group and (2) Section 11(a) will inure to the benefit of the most recent persons named in a notice under that Section.
Third-Party Beneficiaries
although
     (i) . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will constitute an original and all of which, when taken together, will constitute one agreement. However, this Agreement will not be effective until the date both parties have executed this Agreement.
Counterparts
     (j) . The parties agree that this Agreement is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder ("") or an exemption from Section 409A. In the event that after execution of this Agreement either party makes a determination inconsistent with the preceding sentence, it shall promptly notify the other party of the basis for its determination. The parties agree to renegotiate in good faith the terms of this Agreement at no additional cost to the Company, if you determine that this Agreement as structured would have adverse tax consequences to you under applicable law. To extent that you would otherwise be entitled to any payment under this Agreement or any plan or arrangement of the Company or its affiliates, that constitutes "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and that if paid during the six months beginning on the Termination Date would be subject to the Section 409A additional tax because you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), the payment will be paid to you on the earlier of the six-month anniversary of the Termination Date, a change in ownership or effective control of the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A and to the extent permitted by Section 409A) or your death. Similarly, to the extent that you would otherwise be entitled to any benefit (other than a payment) during the six months beginning on the Termination Date that would be subject to the Section 409A additional tax, the benefit will be delayed and will begin being provided on the earlier of the six-month anniversary of the Termination Date, a change in ownership or effective control of the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A and to the extent permitted by Section 409A) or your death. In addition, any payment or benefit due upon a termination of employment that represents a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A shall be paid or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined in Treas. Reg.
Section 409A
Section 409A
 
1.409A-1(h). To the extent applicable, each severance payment made under this Agreement shall be deemed to be separate payments, amounts payable under Section 6 of this Agreement shall be deemed not to be a "deferral of compensation" subject to Section 409A to the extent provided in the exceptions in Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4) ("short-term deferrals") and (b)(9) ("separation pay plans," including the exception under subparagraph (iii)) and other applicable provisions of Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1 through 1.409A-6.
          Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or elsewhere, any payment or benefit under this Agreement or otherwise that is exempt from Section 409A pursuant to Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v)(A) or (C) shall be paid or provided to you only to the extent that the expenses are not incurred, or the benefits are not provided, beyond the last day of the second taxable year following the taxable year in which the "separation from service" occurs; and provided further, that such expenses shall be reimbursed no later than the last day of the third taxable year following the taxable year in which your "separation from service" occurs. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to the extent any expense reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit under this Agreement is determined to be subject to Section 409A, the amount of any such expenses eligible for reimbursement, or the provision of any in-kind benefit, in one calendar year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year (except for any life-time or other aggregate limitation applicable to medical expenses), in no event shall any expenses be reimbursed after the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which you incurred such expenses, and in no event shall any right to reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.

Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, NY, May 6, 2010CA, Inc. (NASDAQ:CA), the world's leading independent IT management software company, today announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Arthur F. Weinbach, 67, as its non-executive chairman of the Board. The appointment is effective immediately.
He succeeds Bill McCracken, 67, who became the Company's chief executive officer in January 2010. He also succeeds Gary Fernandes, who served as CA's Lead Independent Director during the three-month period that McCracken served as both executive chairman of the board and CEO.
"Art Weinbach is a proven leader with a track record of directing companies as chief executive and as the chairman of the Board," said Fernandes. "Art's appointment ensures that Bill McCracken and his senior management team will have the strong support and independent counsel needed to help further build CA into a market and thought leader in new and emerging technologies such as virtualization, software-as-a-service, cloud computing and security."
Weinbach, who currently is executive chairman of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., and was previously chairman and chief executive officer of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (ADP), joined CA's Board of Directors in 2008. He has served as a member of the Board's Audit Committee and its Compensation and Human Resources Committee.
CA has split the chairman and CEO roles since 2004, other than during the brief transitional period when McCracken served as both chairman and CEO. McCracken served as CA's non-executive chairman from 2007 to 2009 and became CA's executive chairman when former CEO John Swainson announced his retirement in September 2009. McCracken will remain on the Board as its only inside director. The Board currently has nine members.
"I am delighted to be taking on this role with CA's Board of Directors in such a pivotal period in the Company's history. There are great opportunities ahead and I look forward to working with the Board and the CA management team to successfully execute our corporate strategy and clearly establish the Company as a market and thought leader," said Weinbach.
"On the recommendation from CA's Corporate Governance Committee, the CA Board unanimously agreed that it was in the best interest of the Company, CA shareholders, and its employees to continue to separate the roles of chairman and chief executive officer," said Fernandes. "We believe that this is the appropriate board leadership structure for CA at the present time."
Weinbach spent 28 years at ADP. He served as ADP's president and CEO from 1996 to 1998, as chairman and CEO from 1998 to 2006, and as non-executive chairman from 2006 to November 2007. Prior to joining ADP, Weinbach was a partner in the accounting firm of Touche Ross & Co., which is now part of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.
 
Weinbach earned a Master of Science degree in accounting from University of Pennsylvania's Wharton Graduate School and a Bachelor of Science degree in economics also from Wharton.
About CA
CA (NASDAQ: CA) is an IT management software and solutions company with expertise across all IT environments  from mainframe and physical, to virtual and cloud. CA manages and secures IT environments and enables customers to deliver more flexible IT services. CA's innovative products and services provide the insight and control essential for IT organizations to power business agility. The majority of the Global Fortune 500 rely on CA to manage their evolving IT ecosystems. For additional information, visit CA at . Follow CA on Twitter at .
www.ca.com
www.twitter.com/cainc
Connect with CA
Legal Notices
Copyright  2010 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.


