FILE:CA/CA-8K-20101021162233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 21, 2010, CA, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 

CA Technologies Reports Second Quarter 2011 Results
ISLANDIA, N.Y., Oct. 21 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ --  
Revenue $1.110 Billion, Up 5 Percent in Constant Currency and Up 4 Percent as Reported
GAAP EPS $0.43, Up 14 Percent in Constant Currency and Up 5 Percent as Reported
Non-GAAP EPS $0.49, Up 10 Percent in Constant Currency and Up 9 percent as Reported
Reaffirms 2011 Fiscal Year Outlook
CA Technologies (Nasdaq: CA) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended Sept. 30, 2010.
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
*Non-GAAP income and earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures, as noted in the discussion of non-GAAP results below. A reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to their comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the tables following this news release.
**CC: Constant Currency
EXECUTIVE COMMENTARY
"CA Technologies recorded a good second quarter," said Chief Executive Officer Bill McCracken.  "We delivered solid financial performance by growing revenue, earnings per share and cash flow. We also continued to take more steps in support of our corporate strategy by building out our virtualization management, security management and cloud offerings through a number of key acquisitions and the announcement of new industry-leading solutions.
"I see our second quarter results as a strong indication that our strategy to manage and secure physical, virtual and cloud environments is the right strategy," McCracken continued. "The changes we made to our organization and our focus on rigorous execution are beginning to pay off.  These results, along with our view of the back half of the year, give us the confidence to reaffirm our full-year outlook."
SECOND QUARTER REVENUE AND BOOKINGS
Total revenue growth in the second quarter can be attributed primarily to a significant increase in sales of the Company's service assurance, project and portfolio management, and identity and access management products.  In addition, the services and education business showed healthy growth.
Revenue was $1.110 billion, up 5 percent in constant currency and 4 percent as reported.
Total revenue backlog was $7.832 billion, up 2 percent in both constant currency and as reported.  The current portion of revenue backlog was $3.463 billion, up 3 percent in both constant currency and as reported.
North America revenue was $675 million, up 8 percent in both constant currency and as reported.
International revenue was $435 million, up 2 percent in constant currency and down 2 percent as reported.
Total bookings in the second quarter were $1.018 billion, up 10 percent in constant currency and up 9 percent as reported primarily driven by new distributed product sales, partially offset by lower mainframe capacity sales compared with the previous year.
The Company signed 14 license agreements with aggregate values greater than $10 million for a total of $361 million, compared to 18 agreements for a total of $366 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010.
The weighted average duration of subscription and maintenance bookings for the quarter was 3.47 years, compared to 3.26 years in the prior year period.
North America bookings were $674 million, up 15 percent in constant currency and 14 percent as reported.
International bookings were $344 million, up 1 percent in constant currency and flat as reported.
SECOND QUARTER EXPENSES AND MARGIN
Year-over-year GAAP results:
Operating expenses, before interest and income taxes, were $803 million, up 9 percent in constant currency and 10 percent as reported.
Operating income, before interest and income taxes, was $307 million, down 2 percent in constant currency and down 9 percent as reported.
Operating margin was 28 percent, down 4 percentage points from the prior year period.
Expenses, operating income, and operating margin for the second quarter were affected by increased costs associated with acquisitions.  This was offset in part by a $10 million benefit from a one-time sale of an equity interest, which translated to a $0.01 benefit to GAAP and non-GAAP EPS.
Year-over-year non-GAAP results, which excludes purchased software and intangibles amortization, pre-fiscal year 2010 restructuring costs and other costs, share-based compensation expense, and includes gains and losses on hedges that mature within the quarter, but excludes gains and losses on hedges that do not mature within the quarter:
Operating expenses, before interest and income taxes, were $721 million, up 8 percent in constant currency and up 7 percent as reported.  
Operating income, before interest and income taxes, was $389 million, flat in constant currency and down 1 percent as reported.
Operating margin was 35 percent, a decrease of 2 percentage points.
Non-GAAP results also were affected by the increased expenses described above.
In the second quarter, the Company reported a GAAP tax rate of 25 percent and a non-GAAP tax rate of 34 percent.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Cash flow from operations was $130 million compared to $120 million in the prior year. Second quarter cash flow was affected by a year-over-year $60 million increase in single installment payments from customers.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Cash and cash equivalents were $2.525 billion.
With $1.567 billion in total debt outstanding, the Company's net cash position was $958 million.
The Company repurchased approximately 5 million shares of stock in the second quarter for a total of $96 million under the $500 million stock repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors in May 2010.  
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
During the second quarter the Company announced:
The acquisition of Arcot Systems, Inc., a leader in providing advanced authentication and fraud prevention solutions through on premises software or cloud services, in an all-cash transaction valued at $200 million;
The acquisition of privately-held 4Base Technology, a virtualization and cloud infrastructure consulting firm. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed;
An agreement to acquire Hyperformix, a leading provider of capacity management software for dynamic physical, virtual, and cloud IT infrastructures. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed and the sale is expected to close in the third quarter;
A strategic alliance with Fujitsu Limited that will enhance each company's service assurance product portfolio and cloud computing strategy; and,
The general availability of five products in its powerful CA Virtual suite, which offer comprehensive management capabilities to provision, control, assure, secure and optimize virtual environments. The Company also announced enhancements to CA Identity Manager for automated provisioning to cloud applications including Google Apps and salesforce.com's enterprise cloud computing platform.
OUTLOOK FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 the Company is excluding share-based compensation expense from its non-GAAP financial measures. The following guidance, which represents "forward-looking statements" (as defined below), takes into account the exclusion of share-based compensation expense from future non-GAAP results. To enable fiscal year 2011 guidance for non-GAAP earnings per share to be compared to fiscal year 2010 full year results, the Company provides full fiscal year 2010 results for non-GAAP earnings per share excluding stock-based compensation expense below.
The Company reaffirmed its revised outlook issued on July 21, 2010 for revenue and cash flow, and GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share. The Company also updated projected as reported numbers based on Sept. 30, 2010 exchange rates:
Total revenue growth in a range of 3 percent to 5 percent in constant currency. At Sept. 30, 2010 exchange rates, this translates to reported revenue of $4.45 billion to $4.55 billion;
GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations growth in constant currency in a range of 5 percent to 13 percent. At Sept. 30, 2010 exchange rates, this translates to reported diluted earnings per share of $1.54 to $1.66;
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations growth in constant currency in a range of 7 percent to 14 percent. At Sept. 30, 2010 exchange rates, this translates to reported non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.85 to $1.97. Fiscal year 2010 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $1.74 excluding share-based compensation expense; and
Cash flow from operations growth in a range of 2 percent to 7 percent in constant currency. At Sept. 30, 2010 exchange rates, this translates to reported cash flow from operations of $1.400 billion to $1.475 billion.
Both GAAP and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share dollar ranges provided have increased to reflect currency fluctuations, year-to-date  performance and reduced share count. Both GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share on the low and high end of the range have increased by $0.03.
This outlook also assumes no material acquisitions and a partial currency hedge of operating income. The Company also expects a full-year GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate in a range of 33 percent to 34 percent.
The Company anticipates approximately 506 million shares outstanding at fiscal year 2011 year-end and a weighted average diluted shares outstanding of approximately 508 million for the fiscal year. Guidance does not include the impact from any future stock repurchases.
Webcast
This news release and the accompanying tables should be read in conjunction with additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, as well as a webcast that the Company will host at 5 p.m. ET today to discuss its unaudited second quarter results. The webcast will be archived on the Company website. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at http://ca.com/invest or listen to the call at 1-800-776-0420. The international participant number is 1-913-312-1407.
(Logo:  http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20100516/NY05617LOGO )
(Logo:  http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20100516/NY05617LOGO )
About CA Technologies
CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) is an IT management software and solutions company with expertise across all IT environments  from mainframe and distributed, to virtual and cloud. CA Technologies manages and secures IT environments and enables customers to deliver more flexible IT services. CA Technologies innovative products and services provide the insight and control essential for IT organizations to power business agility. The majority of the Global Fortune 500 relies on CA Technologies to manage evolving IT ecosystems. For additional information, visit CA Technologies at www.ca.com.
Follow CA Technologies
Twitter
Social Media Page
Press Releases
Podcasts
Non-GAAP Financial Measures  
This news release, the accompanying tables and the additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, includes certain financial measures that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP metrics for operating expenses, operating income, operating margin, income from operations and diluted earnings per share exclude the following items: non-cash amortization of purchased software and other intangibles, share-based compensation,  pre-fiscal year 2010 restructuring and other charges and include the gains and losses since inception of hedges that mature within the quarter, but exclude gains and losses of hedges that do not mature within the quarter. Non-GAAP income also excludes the interest on convertible bonds. The effective tax rate on GAAP and non-GAAP income from operations is the Company's provision for income taxes expressed a s a percentage of pre-tax GAAP and non-GAAP income from operations, respectively. Such tax rates are determined based on an estimated effective full year tax rate, with the effective tax rate for GAAP generally including the impact of discrete items in the  period such items arise and the effective tax rate for non-GAAP income generally allocating the impact of discrete items pro rata to the fiscal year's remaining reporting periods. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes restructuring and other payments. Free cash flow excludes capital expenditures. We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations.  To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than US dollars are converted into US dollars at the exchange rate in effect on March 31, 2010, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year.  Constan t currency excludes the impacts from the Company's hedging program.  The constant currency calculation for annualized subscription and maintenance bookings is calculated by dividing the subscription and maintenance bookings in constant currency by the weighted average subscription and maintenance duration in years. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensat ion. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this news release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, which are attached to this news release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements" that are based upon the beliefs of, and assumptions made by, the Company's management, as well as information currently available to management. These forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the ability to achieve success in the Company's strategy by, among other things, increasing sales in new and emerging enterprises and markets, enabling the sales force to sell new products and Software-as-a-Service offerings and improving the Company's brand in the marketplace; global e conomic factors or political events beyond the Company's control; general economic conditions, including concerns regarding a global recession and credit constraints, or unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, industry or business sector; failure to expand channel partner programs; the ability to adequately manage and evolve financial reporting and managerial systems and processes; the ability to successfully acquire technology and software that are consistent with our strategy and integrate acquired companies and products into existing businesses; competition in product and service offerings and pricing; the ability to retain and attract qualified key personnel; the ability to adapt to rapid technological and market changes; the ability of the Company's products to remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments; access to software licensed from third parties, third-party code and specifications for the development of code; use of software from open source code sources; d iscovery of errors in the Company's software and potential product liability claims; significant amounts of debt and possible future credit rating changes; the failure to protect the Company's intellectual property rights and source code; fluctuations in the number, terms and duration of our license agreements as well as the timing of orders from customers and channel partners; reliance upon large transactions with customers; risks associated with sales to government customers; breaches of the Company's software products and the Company's and customers' data centers and IT environments; access to third-party microcode; third-party claims of intellectual property infringement or royalty payments; fluctuations in foreign currencies; failure to successfully execute restructuring plans; successful outsourcing of various functions to third parties; potential tax liabilities; and these factors and the other factors described more fully in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchan ge Commission.  The Company assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright  2010 CA, Inc. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All other trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
CONTACT:  Dan Kaferle, Public Relations, +1-631-342-2111, daniel.kaferle@ca.com, or Kelsey Doherty, Investor Relations, +1-212-415-6844, kelsey.doherty@ca.com


