FILE:CA/CA-8K-20110729101127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 29, 2011, CA, Inc. (the "Company"), as part of its previously announced Investor Day webcast presentation, is making available on its website financial information regarding its segments under the segment reporting structure adopted by the Company beginning on April 1, 2011. The information includes segment results for the quarters ended September 30, 2010, December 31, 2010, March 31, 2011 and the full fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, including a preliminary estimate of fiscal year 2011 segment growth rates. This summary financial information is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. This financial information is unaudited.
Additional information regarding Investor Day is set forth in a press release issued by the Company on July 29, 2011, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing. By furnishing the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, the Company makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
ISLANDIA, N.Y., July 29, 2011  CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) Chief Executive Officer Bill McCracken and members of his senior management team are presenting the Company's market and technology strategy, and multi-year financial outlook during its 2011 Investor Day being held today in New York City.
At the session attended by more than 140 buy-side and sell-side analysts, McCracken and CA Technologies senior managers are discussing the Company strategy to leverage its leadership in mainframe and enterprise management solutions, and to build its capabilities in the hybrid cloud management, Software as a Service (SaaS) and Service Providers markets. They are also discussing how the Company will accelerate adoption of its solutions by customers in new and emerging markets.
Era of Composite Business Services
In opening the session, McCracken maintained that the industry is experiencing a convergence of several key technologies and trends  mobile devices, increased bandwidth, mobile applications, corporate adoption of social media and location-based computing  that are radically changing the computing landscape.
"These trends and technologies are rapidly expanding the boundaries of composite business services that leading companies will come to rely on to sell products and services, interact with customers in real time, and gather and share data," McCracken said.
The IT industry, he said, is leveraging cloud computing to enable organizations to source the best componentsinternal, external, private cloud, public cloud, mobile and moreto construct the most competitive business applications in days rather than months.
McCracken told investors that CA Technologies is focused on providing the management and security software required by companies to take full advantage of this evolution.
"With the adoption of Composite Business Services, the applications, which may be sourced from multiple vendors, are becoming commoditized and the ability to quickly assemble the business service in a managed and secure way is becoming the business value. This industry shift will require, more than ever, what CA Technologies has done successfully for 35 years: manage and secure the most complex IT environments," he said.
 
Outlook
The Company's three-year financial outlook beginning in fiscal year 2013 was disclosed including:
The Company also reaffirmed its fiscal year 2012 outlook issued on July 20, 2011.
"Our three-year outlook represents our strategic, balanced approach to capital allocation to meet our goal of increasing shareholder value," said Richard Beckert, CA Technologies chief financial officer. "We will make investments to growboth organically and through acquisitionsespecially in the areas of hybrid cloud management, SaaS and MSPs, while increasing operating efficiency to further invest in growth areas and drive operating margin expansion. We also are committed to returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends."
Joining McCracken and Beckert at the event are David Dobson, executive vice president and group executive, Customer Solutions Group; George Fischer, executive vice president and group executive, Worldwide Sales and Operations; Dayton Semerjian, general manager, Mainframe Customer Solutions Unit; Michael Sargent, general manager, Service Assurance Customer Solutions Unit; and Nimsoft CEO Christopher O'Malley, and general manager, Growth Markets Customer Solutions Unit.
Webcast
The session is being webcast live starting at 8:30 a.m. ET on July 29, 2011 and will run until 1:00 p.m. ET. Related supplemental materials are available at . A replay of the audio webcast will be available at approximately 2:30 p.m. ET at .
http://investor.ca.com
http://investor.ca.com
About CA Technologies
CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) is an IT management software and solutions company with expertise across all IT environments  from mainframe and distributed, to virtual and cloud. CA Technologies manages and secures IT environments and enables customers to deliver more flexible IT services. CA Technologies innovative products and services provide the insight and control essential for IT organizations to power business agility. The majority of the Global Fortune 500 relies on CA Technologies to manage evolving IT ecosystems. For additional information, visit CA Technologies at .
www.ca.com
 
Follow CA Technologies
Twitter Social Media Page Press Releases Podcasts
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release refers to certain financial measures that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP metrics for operating expenses, operating income, operating margin, income from operations and diluted earnings per share exclude the following items: non-cash amortization of purchased software and other intangibles, share-based compensation, pre-fiscal year 2010 restructuring and certain other gains and losses, which includes recoveries and certain costs associated with derivative litigation matters and includes the gains and losses since inception of hedges that mature within the quarter, but exclude gains and losses of hedges that do not mature within the quarter. Prior to fiscal year 2011, non-GAAP income also excludes the interest on convertible bonds. The effective tax rate on GAAP and non-GAAP income from operations is the Company's provision for income taxes expressed as a percentage of pre-tax GAAP and non-GAAP income from operations, respectively. Such tax rates are determined based on an estimated effective full year tax rate, with the effective tax rate for GAAP generally including the impact of discrete items in the period such items arise and the effective tax rate for non-GAAP income generally allocating the impact of discrete items pro rata to the fiscal year's remaining reporting periods. Non-GAAP adjusted cash flow excludes pre-fiscal 2010 restructuring and other payments. Free cash flow excludes capital expenditures. We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. dollars are converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect on the last day of the Company's prior fiscal year. Constant currency excludes the impacts from the Company's hedging program. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. The Company is not able to provide a reconciliation of the non-GAAP metrics to their most directly comparable GAAP metrics for periods not yet completed because the information is not available without unreasonable effort.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements" that are based upon the beliefs of, and assumptions made by, the Company's management, as well as information currently available to management. These forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the ability to achieve success in the Company's strategy by, among other things, increasing sales in new and emerging enterprises and markets, enabling the sales force to sell new products, improving the Company's brand in the marketplace and ensuring the Company's set of cloud computing, Software-as-a-Service and other new offerings address the needs of a rapidly changing market, while not adversely affecting the demand for the Company's traditional products or its profitability; global economic factors or political events beyond the Company's control; general economic conditions and credit constraints, or unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, industry or business sector; failure to expand partner programs; the ability to adequately manage and evolve financial reporting and managerial systems and processes; the ability to integrate acquired companies and products into existing businesses; competition in product and service offerings and pricing; the ability to retain and attract qualified key personnel; the ability to adapt to rapid technological and market changes; the ability of the Company's products to remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments; access to software licensed from third parties; use of software from open source code sources; discovery of errors in the Company's software and potential product liability claims; significant amounts of debt and possible future credit rating changes; the failure to protect the Company's intellectual property rights and source code; fluctuations in the number, terms and duration of our license agreements as well as the timing of orders from customers and channel partners; reliance upon large transactions with customers; risks associated with sales to government customers; breaches of the Company's software products and the Company's and customers' data centers and IT environments; third-party claims of intellectual property infringement or royalty payments; fluctuations in foreign currencies; failure to effectively execute the Company's workforce reductions; successful outsourcing of various functions to third parties; potential tax liabilities; and other factors described more fully in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright 2011 CA, Inc. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All other trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
Press Contacts
Dan Kaferle CA Technologies Phone: 631-342-2111
daniel.kaferle@ca.com
Kelsey Doherty CA Technologies Phone: (212) 415-6844
kelsey.doherty@ca.com


