FILE:CA/CA-8K-20110909161947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 9, 2011, the Board of Directors of CA, Inc. (the "Company") elected Jens Alder as a member of the Board. Mr. Alder will receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Company's non-employee director compensation practices described in the Company's annual proxy statement and further described from time to time in exhibits to the Company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of a Company press release announcing the election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., September 9, 2011  CA Technologies (NASDAQ:CA) today announced that Jens Alder, 54, has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective immediately.
"Jens is a very highly regarded and talented international business executive with exceptional leadership credentials," said Art Weinbach, chairman, CA Technologies. "The Board will greatly benefit from his extensive experience in the technology industry and strong global insights as the company implements its worldwide corporate strategy. We are delighted to have him on board."
Alder's appointment brings the Board membership to 11, 10 of whom are independent.
Alder currently serves as chairman of Sanitas Krankenversicherung, one of Switzerland's largest health insurers and RTX Telecom A/S, a telecommunications component and handset producer based in Denmark. He also serves as chairman of Industrielle Werke Basel, the public utility of Basel, Switzerland. In addition, Alder is the lead advisor for IT governance to the Swiss Minister of Defense and to the Swiss Chief of the Armed Forces.
Previously, Alder held several executive level positions including chief executive officer of TDC A/S, the leading Danish provider of communication solutions and Pay-TV, chief executive officer of Swisscom AG, Switzerland's largest telecommunications provider and chief executive officer of Alcatel Switzerland Ltd., Telecom Section.
Alder holds a Master of Business Administration from INSEAD in France and a Master of Electrical Engineering from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology.
About CA Technologies
CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) is an IT management software and solutions company with expertise across all IT environments  from mainframe and distributed, to virtual and cloud. CA Technologies manages and secures IT environments and enables customers to deliver more flexible IT services. CA Technologies innovative products and services provide the insight and control essential for IT organizations to power business agility. The majority of the Global Fortune 500 relies on CA Technologies to manage evolving IT ecosystems. For additional information, visit CA Technologies at .
www.ca.com
 
Follow CA Technologies
Legal Notices
Copyright  2011 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
Press Contact
Jennifer Hallahan CA Technologies Office: (212) 415-6924 Mobile: (917) 912-2006
Jennifer.Hallahan@ca.com


