FILE:CA/CA-8K-20110518162439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 18, 2011, CA, Inc. (the "Company") announced the election of Richard J. Beckert, 49, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective May 18, 2011. The term of this office will expire at the first meeting of the Company's Board of Directors following the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, subject to any earlier resignation or removal.
Mr. Beckert has served as the Company's Corporate Controller since June 2008 and was the Company's Senior Vice President, Strategic Pricing and Offerings from September 2006, when he joined the Company, through June 2008. Prior to joining the Company, from August 2005 to September 2006, Mr. Beckert was Division Controller  Data Management Division at International Business Machines Corporation.
In connection with his new role, Mr. Beckert will receive salary and incentive compensation increases, as well as an increase of his Change in Control and Severance Plan multiple.
Mr. Beckert succeeds Nancy E. Cooper, who is retiring as Chief Financial Officer, effective May 18, 2011.
A copy of a Company press release relating to the election of Mr. Beckert as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, NY, May 18, 2011  CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) today announced the appointment of Richard Beckert as executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective immediately. He succeeds Nancy Cooper who recently announced her retirement.
Beckert, who has more than 25 years experience in high-tech corporate finance, has served as CA Technologies corporate controller for the past three years. In that role, he was responsible for all the company's financial planning, accounting, pricing and international reporting activities. He joined the company in 2006 as a senior vice president responsible for strategic pricing and offerings.
"Rich is an outstanding executive who has a deep understanding of our business, our industry and our customers," said Bill McCracken, CA Technologies CEO. "He will continue to implement a corporate strategy that carefully balances strong expense control, investments in acquisitions and organic development in new and existing markets to drive revenue growth and enhanced returns to our shareholders."
Before joining CA Technologies, Beckert held a number of senior management positions at IBM, including division controller for IBM's Data Management and Lotus divisions. He also served as director of financial operations for IBM Americas. Beckert earned a Bachelor of Science degree in finance administration from Northeastern University in Boston.
"I would like to personally thank Nancy for her contribution over the last 5 years. Under her leadership, the team helped put CA Technologies on a sound financial footing, which allowed us to achieve an investment grade' rating at all credit agencies," McCracken continued. "Her deep experience and steady hand have helped guide us to where we are today."
About CA Technologies
CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) is an IT management software and solutions company with expertise across all IT environments  from mainframe and distributed, to virtual and cloud. CA Technologies manages and secures IT environments and enables customers to deliver more flexible IT services. CA Technologies' innovative products and services provide the insight and control essential for IT organizations to power business agility. The majority of the Global Fortune 500 relies on CA Technologies to manage evolving IT ecosystems. For additional information, visit CA Technologies at
www.ca.com.
 
Follow CA Technologies
Twitter
Social Media Page
Press Releases
Podcasts
Legal Notices
Copyright 2011 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All other trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
Press contact:
Dan Kaferle (631) 342-2111 (508) 284-9788 Daniel.kaferle@ca.com
Kelsey Doherty (212) 415-6844 Kelsey.doherty@ca.com


