FILE:CA/CA-8K-20110407162416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
On April 7, 2011, the Board of Directors of CA, Inc. (the "Company") elected Rohit Kapoor as a member of the Board. Mr. Kapoor is expected to be named as a member of the Audit Committee of the Board. Mr. Kapoor will receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Company's non-employee director compensation practices described in the Company's annual proxy statement and further described from time to time in exhibits to the Company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of a Company press release announcing the election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
ISLANDIA, N.Y., April 7, 2011  CA Technologies (NASDAQ:CA), today announced that Rohit Kapoor, 46, CEO of ExlService Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ: EXLS) has been elected to its Board of Directors effective immediately. The Board expects to name Kapoor to the Board's Audit Committee.
"Rohit brings exceptional leadership credentials and international business accomplishments to our Board," said Art Weinbach, chairman, CA Technologies. "His insight and expertise related to international operational efficiencies and expansion will be invaluable as we increase our global footprint. We are delighted to have him join us."
Kapoor's appointment brings the Board membership to 10, nine of whom are independent.
In 2008, Kapoor was named president and chief executive officer of ExlService Holdings, Inc., a provider of outsourcing and transformation services, and has served as a director since 2002. Kapoor previously served as ExlService Holdings' chief operating officer and chief financial officer. He co-founded ExlService.com, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of ExlService Holdings, in April 1999, serving as its president and chief financial officer.
Prior to that, Kapoor served in several capacities at Deutsche Bank and Bank of America in the United States and Asia.
Kapoor holds a bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. He completed his master's degree in business administration from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad in 1988.
About CA Technologies
CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) is an IT management software and solutions company with expertise across all IT environments  from mainframe and distributed, to virtual and cloud. CA Technologies manages and secures IT environments and enables customers to deliver more flexible IT services. CA Technologies innovative products and services provide the insight and control essential for IT organizations to power business agility. The majority of the Global Fortune 500 relies on CA Technologies to manage evolving IT ecosystems. For additional information, visit CA Technologies at www.ca.com.
Follow CA Technologies
Legal Notices
Copyright 2011 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
Press Contact
Jennifer Hallahan CA Technologies Office: (212) 415-6924 Mobile: (917) 912-2006
Jennifer.Hallahan@ca.com


