FILE:CA/CA-8K-20110824160140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On August 19, 2011, CA, Inc. (the "Company"), as a borrower, entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility with a committed capacity of $1.0 billion (including a letter of credit sub-facility) (the "Credit Agreement"), among the Company, Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank"), as paying agent (the "Agent"), Citibank, Bank of America, N.A. ("BofA"), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ("JPMorgan"), as co-administrative agents, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. ("Citi"), Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and the other banks and financial institutions party thereto. The Credit Agreement comprises commitments from 21 financial institutions. The Credit Agreement expires August 19, 2016 (the "Termination Date"), unless the parties agree to extend the Termination Date for consecutive one-year periods thereafter pursuant to the terms therein. Upon the approval of the Company's Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee, the Company may, at its option and subject to customary conditions, request an increase in the aggregate commitment of up to $500 million.
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at a rate dependent on the Company's credit ratings at the time of the borrowing and, at the Company's option, will be calculated according to a base rate or a Eurocurrency rate, as the case may be, plus an applicable margin fee. Depending on the Company's credit ratings at the time of borrowing, the applicable margin for a base rate borrowing ranges from 0.00% to 0.625% and the applicable margin for a Eurocurrency borrowing ranges from 0.900% to 1.375%. At the Company's current credit ratings, the applicable margin would be 0.25% for a base rate borrowing and 1.10% for a Eurocurrency borrowing. In addition, the Company must pay facility fees, payable in arrears, quarterly on the first day of each January, April, July, and October, commencing October 1, 2011, at rates, depending on the Company's credit ratings, ranging from 0.100% to 0.250% of the aggregate amount of each lender's revolving credit commitment. Based on the Company's current credit ratings, the facility fee is 0.15% per annum of the $1.0 billion committed amount.
The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants for transactions of this type, including two financial covenants: (i) for the 12 months ending each quarter-end, the ratio of consolidated debt for borrowed money to consolidated cash flow, each as defined in the Credit Agreement, must not exceed 4.00 to 1.00 and (ii) for the 12 months as of any date, the ratio of consolidated cash flow to the sum of interest payable on, and amortization of debt discount in respect of, all consolidated debt for borrowed money, as defined in the Credit Agreement, must not be less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, the Credit Agreement provides for customary events of default, including, among other things, defaults relating to other indebtedness of at least $100,000,000 in the aggregate being rendered against the Company or its subsidiaries, judgments in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate being rendered against the Company or its subsidiaries, the acquisition of 40% or more by any person or group of any outstanding class of capital stock having ordinary voting power in the election of directors of the Company, and the incurrence of certain liabilities in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate under The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
The Credit Agreement replaces an existing unsecured $1.0 billion revolving credit facility that was due to expire on August 29, 2012, among the Company, the banks party thereto, Citibank, as paying agent, Citibank, BofA, JPMorgan, and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as co-administrative agents, and Citi, Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners (the "Prior Credit Agreement"). Borrowings under the Prior Credit Agreement carried interest at rates dependent on the Company's credit ratings and, at the Company's option, were calculated according to a base rate or a Eurocurrency rate, plus an applicable margin and utilization fee. The applicable margin for a base rate borrowing was 0.00% and, depending on the Company's credit ratings, the applicable margin for a Eurocurrency borrowing ranged from 0.27% to 0.875%. The utilization fee ranged from 0.10% to 0.25% for borrowings over 50% of the total commitment. The Company paid facility fees quarterly at rates, depending on the Company's credit ratings, ranging from 0.08% to 0.375% of the final allocated amount of each lender's full revolving credit commitment (without taking into account any outstanding borrowings under such commitments). The Prior Credit Agreement contained two financial covenants: (i) for the 12 months ending each quarter-end, the ratio of consolidated debt for borrowed money to consolidated
 
cash flow could not exceed 4.00 to 1.00 and (ii) maintain, as of any date, a ratio of consolidated cash flow for the 12 months ended on or immediately prior to such date, to the sum of interest payable on, and amortization of debt discount in respect of, all consolidated debt for borrowed money of not less than 5.00 to 1.00.
Certain of the lenders, agents and other parties to the Credit Agreement, and their affiliates, have in the past provided, and may in the future provide, investment banking, underwriting, lending, commercial banking and other advisory services to the Company and its subsidiaries. These lenders, agents and other parties have received, and may in the future receive, customary compensation from the Company and its subsidiaries for these services. Among other things, certain of the lenders, agents and other parties to the Credit Agreement, and their affiliates, acted as initial purchasers in the Company's 2009 offering of debt securities, as described in the Company's Form 8-K dated November 13, 2009.
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement and related matters is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
          CA, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the banks and other financial institutions (the "") and issuers of letters of credit ("") listed on the signature pages hereof, CITIBANK, N.A. ("") , BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. ("") and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (""), as co-administrative agents, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED and J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and Citibank, as paying agent (the "") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows:
Borrower
Banks
Initial Issuing Banks
Citibank
BofA
JPMCB
Agent
          SECTION 1.01 . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Certain Defined Terms
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
     "" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Advance).
Advance
Type
     "" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or, in each case in which "Affiliate" is used in relation to the Borrower, is a director or officer of such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term "control" (including the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") of a Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote, in each case in which "Affiliate" is used in relation to the Borrower, 10% or more of the Voting Stock or, in each case in which "Affiliate" is used in relation to a Lender or the Agent, a majority of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
     "" means (a) in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars, the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at Citibank at its office at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Account No. 36852248, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications, (b) in the case of Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, the account of the Agent designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders for such purpose and (c) in any such case, such other account of the Agent as is designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders for such purpose.
Agent's Account
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 
     "" means, as of any date for each of Base Rate Advances and Eurocurrency Rate Advances, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Margin
     "" means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Percentage
     "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (x) a Lender, (y) an Affiliate of a Lender or (z) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of each party whose consent is required by Section 8.07), and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C or any other form approved by the Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(c).
Assuming Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(c).
Assumption Agreement
 
     "" of any Letter of Credit means, at any time, the maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit at such time (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing).
Available Amount
     "" means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
     (a) the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank in New York, New York, from time to time, as Citibank's base rate;
     (b) / of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate; and
1
2
     (c) the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate applicable to Dollars for a period of one month ("") plus 1.00% (for the avoidance of doubt, the One Month LIBOR for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or other commercially available source providing such quotations as designated by the Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day).
One Month LIBOR
     "" means an Advance denominated in Dollars that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Advances of the same Type, in the same currency and for the same tenor made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01.
Borrowing
     "" means, in respect of Advances denominated in Dollars, $10,000,000, in respect of Advances denominated in Sterling, 10,000,000, and, in respect of Advances denominated in Euros, 10,000,000.
Borrowing Minimum
     "" means, in respect of Advances denominated in Dollars, $1,000,000 in respect of Advances denominated in Sterling, 1,000,000, and, in respect of Advances denominated in Euros, 1,000,000.
Borrowing Multiple
     "" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and banks are open for business in London and in the country of issue of the currency of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance (or, in the case of an Advance denominated in Euros, on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open).
Business Day
     "" means, in respect of an obligation, provide and pledge (as a first priority perfected security interest) cash collateral in Dollars, at a location and pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and each Issuing Bank (and "" has a corresponding meaning).
Cash Collateralize
Cash Collateralization
     "" means a Revolving Credit Commitment or a Letter of Credit Commitment.
Commitment
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Commitment Date
 
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Commitment Increase
     "" means lawful currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Euros.
Committed Currencies
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Consenting Lender
     "" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Consolidated
     "" means, for any period, the sum of (a) the amount set forth as "Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities" (or a comparable term) in the Consolidated statements of cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period plus (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period.
Consolidated Cash Flow
     "" means, for any period, the sum of interest payable on, and amortization of debt discount in respect of, all Debt of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during such period.
Consolidated Interest Expense
     "", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.09.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
     "" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables not overdue incurred in the ordinary course of such Person's business), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all obligations of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all obligations of such Person as lessee under leases that have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (f) all non-contingent obligations of such Person in respect of acceptances, letters of credit or similar extensions of credit, (g) all obligations of such Person in respect of Hedge Agreements, (h) all Debt of others referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above or clause (i) below guaranteed directly or indirectly in any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly by such Person through an agreement (1) to pay or purchase such Debt or to advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such Debt, (2) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of such Debt or to assure the holder of such Debt against loss, (3) to supply funds to or in any other manner invest in the debtor (including any agreement to pay for property or services irrespective of whether such property is received or such services are rendered) or (4) otherwise to assure a creditor against loss, and (i) all Debt referred to in clauses (a) through (h) above secured by (or for which the holder of such Debt has an existing, non-contingent right to be secured by) any Lien on property (including, without limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Debt.
Debt
     "" means Debt of the types described in clauses (a) though (f) of the definition of "Debt".
Debt for Borrowed Money
 
     "" means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
     "" means at any time, subject to Section 2.20(d), (i) any Lender that has failed for three or more Business Days to comply with its obligations under this Agreement to make an Advance, make a payment to an Issuing Bank in respect of drawing under a Letter of Credit or make any other payment due hereunder (each, a ""), unless such Lender has notified the Agent and the Borrower in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding has not been satisfied (which conditions precedent, together with the applicable default, if any, will be specifically identified in such writing), (ii) any Lender that has notified the Agent, the Borrower or an Issuing Bank in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder, unless such writing or statement states that such position is based on such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding cannot be satisfied (which conditions precedent, together with the applicable default, if any, will be specifically identified in such writing or public statement), (iii) any Lender that has notified, or whose Parent Company has notified, the Agent or the Borrower in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under loan agreements or credit agreements generally, (iv) any Lender that has, for three or more Business Days after written request of the Agent or the Borrower, failed to confirm in writing to the Agent and the Borrower that it will comply with its prospective funding obligations hereunder (provided that such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (iv) upon the Agent's and the Borrower's receipt of such written confirmation), or (v) any Lender with respect to which a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing with respect to such Lender or its Parent Company; that a Lender Insolvency Event shall not be deemed to occur with respect to a Lender or its Parent Company solely as a result of the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or Parent Company by a governmental authority or instrumentality thereof where such action does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Lender. Any determination by the Agent (or if the Agent is subject of any events described in clause (v) of the immediately preceding sentence, by the Borrower or the Required Lenders) that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under any of clauses (i) through (v) above will be conclusive and binding absent manifest error, and such Lender will be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender (subject to Section 2.20(d)) upon notification of such determination by the Agent (or the Required Lenders or the Borrower, as the case may be) to the Borrower, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders.
Defaulting Lender
funding obligation
provided
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(b).
Disclosed Litigation
     "" and the "" sign each means lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
     "" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify in writing to the Borrower and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
 
     "" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under Section 8.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 8.07(b)(iii)).
Eligible Assignee
     "" means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to health, safety or the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.
Environmental Action
     "" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial or agency interpretation, policy or guidance relating to pollution or protection of the environment, health, safety or natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Law
     "" means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
     "" in Dollars of any Committed Currency on any date means the equivalent in Dollars of such Committed Currency determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Agent's principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for such Committed Currency in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the "Equivalent" in any Committed Currency of Dollars means the equivalent in such Committed Currency of Dollars determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Agent's principal office in London offers to exchange such Committed Currency for Dollars in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Equivalent
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
     "" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Borrower's controlled group, or under common control with the Borrower, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) the requirements of subsection (1) of Section 4043(b) of ERISA (without regard to subsection (2) of such Section) are met with respect to a contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days (unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC); (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of
ERISA Event
 
ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 303(k) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan; or (g) a determination is made that any Plan is in "at risk" status (within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA); or (h) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan; , , that no event described in (c), (d) or (e) shall be an ERISA Event if no later than 10 days prior to such event the Borrower has provided the Agent with the information that would be required to be furnished to the PBGC pursuant to Section 4041(b)(2)(A) of ERISA and such information demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agent that if the relevant Plan were terminated as of the date of such event such termination would be eligible to be treated as a standard termination under Section 4041(b) of ERISA.
provided
however
     "" means the lawful currency of the European Union as constituted by the Treaty of Rome which established the European Community, as such treaty may be amended from time to time and as referred to in the EMU legislation.
Euro
     "" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurocurrency Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify in writing to the Borrower and the Agent.
Eurocurrency Lending Office
     "" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
     "" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available (but subject to the provisions of Section 2.08), the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency is offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Bank's (or such Reference Bank's Affiliate's) Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate
     "" means an Advance denominated in Dollars or a Committed Currency that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(ii).
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
     "" for any Interest Period for all Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing means the reserve percentage applicable
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
 
two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurocurrency Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Extension Date
     "" means the Revolving Credit Facility or the Letter of Credit Facility.
Facility
     "" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, as in effect on the date hereof (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
     "" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
     "" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, with respect to any Issuing Bank, such Defaulting Lender's Pro Rata Share of the L/C Obligations with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, other than L/C Obligations as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
     "" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas and (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as hazardous or toxic or as a pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
     "" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no phantom stock or
Hedge Agreement
provided
 
similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries shall be a Hedge Agreement; and , , that no call-spread transaction in connection with the issuance of any convertible securities shall be a Hedge Agreement.
provided
further
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Increase Date
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Increasing Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.08.
Information
     "" has the meaning specified in the recital of parties to this Agreement.
Initial Issuing Bank
     "" means, for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurocurrency Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three, six, nine or twelve months, as the Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) (or, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, 4:00 P.M. (London time)) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
     (a) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after the earliest Termination Date then in effect for any Lender;
     (b) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
     (c) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, , , that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
however
     (d) whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
     "" with respect to any Letter of Credit means the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit.
issuance
 
     "" means an Initial Issuing Bank or any Eligible Assignee to which a portion of the Letter of Credit Commitment hereunder has been assigned pursuant to Section 8.07 so long as such Eligible Assignee expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as an Issuing Bank and notifies the Agent of its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Agent in the Register), for so long as the Initial Issuing Bank or Eligible Assignee, as the case may be, shall have a Letter of Credit Commitment.
Issuing Bank
     "" means an interest bearing cash collateral account to be established and maintained by the Agent, over which the Agent shall have sole dominion and control, upon terms as may be satisfactory to the Agent.
L/C Cash Collateral Account
     "" means, as of any date, the aggregate Available Amount of outstanding Letters of Credit and Advances made by an Issuing Bank in accordance with Section 2.03 that have not been funded by the Lenders and, in the case of any Letters of Credit denominated in any Committed Currency, shall be the Equivalent in Dollars of such amount, determined as of the third Business Day prior to such date.
L/C Obligations
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.06(b)(i).
L/C Related Documents
     "" means that (a) a Lender or its Parent Company is insolvent, or is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (b) such Lender or its Parent Company is, other than solely via an Undisclosed Administration, the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or similar proceeding or reorganization, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company, or such Lender or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
Lender Insolvency Event
     "" means the Banks, each Issuing Bank, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.18 or 2.19 and each Eligible Assignee that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.07.
Lenders
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Letter of Credit Agreement
     "" means, with respect to the Initial Issuing Bank, the amount set forth opposite the Initial Issuing Bank's name on Schedule I hereto under the caption "Letter of Credit Commitment" or, if the Initial Issuing Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, the amount set forth for such Issuing Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(d) as such Issuing Bank's "Letter of Credit Commitment", as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05.
Letter of Credit Commitment
     "" means, at any time, an amount equal to the lesser of (a) the aggregate amount of the Issuing Banks' Letter of Credit Commitments at such time and (b) $100,000,000, as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05.
Letter of Credit Facility
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
Letters of Credit
     "" means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained
Lien
 
security title of a conditional vendor and any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property.
     "" means any material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or otherwise) or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
     "" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, condition (financial or otherwise) or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender under this Agreement or any Note or (c) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Note.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" of the Borrower means, at any time, any Subsidiary of the Borrower having (a) assets with a value of not less than 2% of the total value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (b) Consolidated revenues not less than 2% of the Consolidated revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Subsidiary
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
     "" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Non-Consenting Lender
     "" means, at any time, a Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender.
Non-Defaulting Lender
     "" means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.16 in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by such Lender.
Note
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Borrowing
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Notice of Issuance
     "" means, with respect to a Lender, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such Lender, or if such Lender does not have a bank holding company, then any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares (or equivalent evidence of beneficial and economic ownership) of such Lender.
Parent Company
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(d).
Participant
 
     "" means, for any Committed Currency, such office of Citibank as shall be from time to time selected by the Agent and notified by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Payment Office
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).
PBGC
     "" means (a) such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced and which have not been stayed within 30 days from the entry thereof: (i) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent not yet due and payable or not required to be paid under Section 5.01(b); and (ii) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws, unemployment insurance, social security or other laws or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations; (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', carriers', workmen's and repairmen's Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations that are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days (and, if overdue by more than 30 days, are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained) as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been concluded in favor of the secured party, (c) easements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real property that do not render title to the property encumbered thereby unmarketable or materially adversely affect the use of such property for its present purposes and (d) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under Section 6.01(f).
Permitted Liens
     "" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
     "" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
     "" of any amount means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the product of such amount a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment as in effect immediately prior to such termination) and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of all Revolving Credit Commitments at such time (or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, the aggregate amount of all Revolving Credit Commitments as in effect immediately prior to such termination).
Pro Rata Share
times
     "" means, as of any date, the rating that has been most recently announced by either S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Borrower. For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P and Moody's shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the available rating; (b) if neither S&P nor Moody's shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage will be set in accordance with Level 5 under the definition of "" or "", as the case may be; (c) if the ratings established by S&P and Moody's shall fall within different levels, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the higher rating unless such ratings differ by two or more levels, in which case the applicable level will be deemed to be one level below the higher of such levels; (d) if any rating established by S&P or Moody's shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency
Public Debt Rating
Applicable Margin
Applicable Percentage
 
making such change; and (e) if S&P or Moody's shall change the basis on which ratings are established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be.
     "" means BofA, Citibank and JPMCB.
Reference Banks
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(c).
Register
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, administrators, managers, advisors and representatives of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means at any time Lenders owed over 50% of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount (based on the Equivalent in Dollars at such time) of the Advances owing to Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least a majority in interest of the Revolving Credit Commitments.
Required Lenders
     "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule I hereto under the caption "Revolving Credit Commitment" or, if such Lender has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(c) as such Lender's "Revolving Credit Commitment", as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05 or increased pursuant to Sections 2.18(c) or 2.19.
Revolving Credit Commitment
     "" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a Standard and Poor's Financial Services LLC business.
S&P
     "" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
     "" means Debt that is subordinated by its terms in right of payment to amounts owing under this Agreement.
Subordinated Debt
     "" of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
     "" means the earlier of (a) August 19, 2016, subject to the extension thereof pursuant to Section 2.18 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01; , , that the Termination Date of any Lender that is a Non-Consenting Lender to any requested extension pursuant to Section 2.18 shall be the
Termination Date
provided
however
 
Termination Date in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date for all purposes of this Agreement.
     "" refers to the distinction between Base Rate Advances and Eurocurrency Rate Advances.
Type
     "" means, in relation to a Lender, the appointment of an administrator, provisional liquidator, conservator, receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official by a supervisory authority or regulator under the laws of the country where such Lender is subject to home jurisdiction supervision if, and only for so long as, applicable law prohibits such appointment from being publicly disclosed and provided that such appointment shall not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such supervisory authority or regulator) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Lender.
Undisclosed Administration
     "" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by such Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time, (ii) such Lender's Pro Rata Share of (A) the aggregate Available Amount of all the Letters of Credit outstanding at such time and (B) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by each Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c) that have not been ratably funded by such Lender and outstanding at such time.
Unused Commitment
minus
plus
     "" means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
          SECTION 1.02 . In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding".
Computation of Time Periods
          SECTION 1.03 . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) ("GAAP"). If at any time any change in generally accepted accounting principles would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth herein, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in generally accepted accounting principles (subject to the approval of the Borrower and the Required Lenders); provided that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in generally accepted accounting principles.
Accounting Terms
 
          SECTION 2.01 . (a) Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date in an aggregate amount (based in respect of any Advances to be denominated in a Committed Currency by reference to the Equivalent thereof in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Borrowing) not to exceed such Lender's Unused Commitment at such time. Each Borrowing shall be in an amount not less than the Borrowing Minimum or the Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and shall consist of Advances of the same Type and in the same currency made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Revolving Credit Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment, the Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01(a), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(a).
The Advances and Letters of Credit
     (b) . Each Issuing Bank agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to issue letters of credit (each, a "") denominated in Dollars for the account of the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 30 days before the Termination Date in an aggregate Available Amount (i) for all Letters of Credit issued by each Issuing Bank not to exceed at any time the lesser of (x) the Letter of Credit Facility at such time and (y) each Issuing Bank's Letter of Credit Commitment at such time and (ii) for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Commitments of the Lenders at such time. No Letter of Credit shall have an expiration date (including all rights of the Borrower or the beneficiary to require renewal) later than 10 Business Days before the Termination Date. Within the limits referred to above, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b), repay any Advances resulting from drawings thereunder pursuant to Section 2.03(c) and request the issuance of additional Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b).
Letters of Credit
Letter of Credit
          SECTION 2.02 . (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.03(c), each Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (y) 4:00 P.M. (London time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, or (z) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier. Each such notice of a Borrowing (a "Notice of Borrowing") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, initial Interest Period and currency for each such Advance. Each Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Advances denominated in Dollars, and before 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the date of such Borrowing, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the applicable Agent's Account, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing. After the Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower in same day funds on the date of such Borrowing at the Agent's address referred to in Section 8.02 or at the applicable Payment Office, as the case may be.
Making the Advances
 
     (b) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrower may not select Eurocurrency Rate Advances for any Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Borrowing is less than the Borrowing Minimum or if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances for the requested currency shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.12 and (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than ten separate Borrowings.
     (c) Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. In the case of any Borrowing that the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
     (d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the higher of (A) the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances comprising such Borrowing and (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount and (ii) in the case of such Lender, (A) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
     (e) The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
     SECTION 2.03 . (a) . (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued upon notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the date of the proposed issuance of such Letter of Credit (or on such shorter notice as the applicable Issuing Bank may agree), by the Borrower to any Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall give the Agent, prompt notice thereof by telecopier. Each such notice of issuance of a Letter of Credit (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier, specifying therein the requested (A) date of such issuance (which shall be a Business Day), (B) Available Amount of such Letter of Credit, (C) expiration date of such Letter of Credit (which shall not be later than the earlier of (x) one year after the issuance thereof (provided that any such Letter of Credit may provide for renewal thereof for
Issuance of and Drawings and Reimbursement Under Letters of Credit
Request for Issuance
Notice of Issuance
 
additional periods (which shall in no event extend past the date in clause (y) hereof)) and (y) 10 Business Days prior to the earliest Termination Date), (D) name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit and (E) form of such Letter of Credit, and shall be accompanied by such customary application and agreement for letter of credit as such Issuing Bank may specify to the Borrower for use in connection with such requested Letter of Credit (a ""). If the requested form of such Letter of Credit is acceptable to such Issuing Bank in its sole discretion, such Issuing Bank will, unless it has received written notice from any Lender, the Agent or the Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in Article III shall not be satisfied, upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, make such Letter of Credit available to the Borrower at its office referred to in Section 8.02 or as otherwise agreed with the Borrower in connection with such issuance. In the event and to the extent that the provisions of any Letter of Credit Agreement shall conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
Letter of Credit Agreement
     (b) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, subject to Section 2.19(e), such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. The Borrower hereby agrees to each such participation. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Agent, for the account of such Issuing Bank, such Lender's Pro Rata Share of each drawing made under a Letter of Credit funded by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date made, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. To the extent of its Revolving Credit Commitment, each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
Participations
     (c) . The payment by an Issuing Bank of a draft drawn under any Letter of Credit shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by any such Issuing Bank of an Advance, which shall be a Base Rate Advance, in the amount of such draft. Each Issuing Bank shall give prompt notice (and such Issuing Bank will use its commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such notice within one Business Day) of each drawing under any Letter of Credit issued by it to the Borrower and the Agent. Upon written demand by such Issuing Bank, with a copy of such demand to the Agent, subject to Section 2.19(e), each Lender shall pay to the Agent such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such outstanding Advance, by making available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank, by deposit to the Agent's Account, in same day funds, an amount equal to the portion of the outstanding principal amount of such Advance to be funded by such Lender. Promptly after receipt thereof, the Agent shall transfer such funds to such Issuing Bank. Each Lender agrees to fund its Pro Rata Share of an outstanding Advance on (i) the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by such Issuing Bank, that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Business Day, or (ii) the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time. If and to the extent that any Lender shall not have so made the amount of such Advance available to the Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand by any such Issuing Bank until the
Drawing and Reimbursement
provided
 
date such amount is paid to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate for its account or the account of such Issuing Bank, as applicable. If such Lender shall pay to the Agent such amount for the account of any such Issuing Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute an Advance made by such Lender on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Advance made by such Issuing Bank shall be reduced by such amount on such Business Day.
     (d) . Each Issuing Bank shall furnish (A) to the Agent on the first Business Day of each week a written report summarizing issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the previous week and drawings during such week under all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, (B) to each Lender on the first Business Day of each month a written report summarizing issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the preceding month and drawings during such month under all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank and (C) to the Agent and each Lender on the first Business Day of each calendar quarter a written report setting forth the average daily aggregate Available Amount during the preceding calendar quarter of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.
Letter of Credit Reports
     (e) . The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it on the date specified in Section 2.03(c) shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to make its Advance on such date, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on such date.
Failure to Make Advances
          SECTION 2.04 . (a) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee on the aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment from the date hereof in the case of each Bank and from the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the first day of each January, April, July and October, commencing October 1, 2011, and on the Termination Date, and after the Termination Date payable upon demand until all amounts due and payable under this Agreement have been paid in full in cash and either all Letters of Credit have been terminated or the Borrower shall otherwise have complied with the provisions of Section 6.02, provided that after the Revolving Credit Commitments have been terminated, the facility fee will be calculated on the aggregate balance of amounts outstanding under this Agreement plus the amounts of any outstanding Letters of Credit; and provided further that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any facility fee except in respect of its outstanding Advances for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrower shall not be required to pay such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender).
Fees
Facility Fee
     (b) . (i) The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commission (the "") on such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the average daily aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the first day of each January, April, July and October, commencing October 1, 2011, and on the Termination Date, and after the Termination Date payable upon demand; that the Applicable Margin shall increase by 2% upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) or if the Letter of Credit Fees are not paid when due (but in any case such increase in the Applicable Margin shall not exceed 2% per annum) if the Borrower is required to pay Default Interest pursuant to Section 2.07(b); , that (i) to the extent that all or a portion of the Fronting Exposure in respect of any Defaulting Lender is reallocated to the Non-Defaulting
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fees
provided
provided,
further
 
Lenders pursuant to Section 2.20(a), such fees that would have accrued for the benefit of such Defaulting Lender will instead accrue for the benefit of and be payable to such Non-Defaulting Lenders, in accordance with their respective Revolving Credit Commitments, and (ii) to the extent that all or any portion of such Fronting Exposure cannot be so reallocated, such fees will instead accrue for the benefit of and be payable to the respective Issuing Banks ratably according to the outstanding Letters of Credit issued by each Issuing Bank, provided that such payments to the Issuing Banks shall accrue only to the extent that such Letters of Credit have not been Cash Collateralized.
pro
rata
          (ii) The Borrower shall pay to each Issuing Bank for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed in writing between the Borrower and such Issuing Bank.
     (c) . The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Agent.
Agent's Fees
          SECTION 2.05 . The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the respective Unused Commitments of the Lenders, provided that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and provided, further, that the Borrower may terminate in whole the Unused Commitment of any Defaulting Lender upon notice to the Agent and such Defaulting Lender.
Optional Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
          SECTION 2.06 . (a) The Borrower shall repay to the Agent on each Termination Date, for the ratable account of the Lenders whose Commitments terminate on such date, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances owed to such Lenders then outstanding.
Repayment of Advances
     (b) The obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement, any Letter of Credit Agreement and any other agreement or instrument, in each case, relating to any Letter of Credit shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such Letter of Credit Agreement and such other agreement or instrument under all circumstances, including, without limitation, the following circumstances (it being understood that any such payment by the Borrower is without prejudice to, and does not constitute a waiver of, any rights the Borrower might have or might acquire as a result of the payment by any Lender of any draft or the reimbursement by the Borrower thereof):
          (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Note, any Letter of Credit Agreement, any Letter of Credit or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto (all of the foregoing being, collectively, the "");
L/C Related Documents
          (ii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the obligations of the Borrower in respect of any L/C Related Document or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from all or any of the L/C Related Documents;
          (iii) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right that the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of a Letter of Credit (or any Persons for which any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any Issuing Bank, any Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with the transactions contemplated by the L/C Related Documents or any unrelated transaction;
 
          (iv) any statement or any other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect;
          (v) payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit;
          (vi) any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any guarantee, for all or any of the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the L/C Related Documents; or
          (vii) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including, without limitation, any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower or a guarantor.
          SECTION 2.07 . (a) . The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Advances
Scheduled Interest
          (i) . During such periods as such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the first day of each January, April, July and October during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
plus
          (ii) . During such periods as such Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period for such Advance (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Eurocurrency Rate Advances
plus
     (b) . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), the Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, require the Borrower to pay interest ("") on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above; , , that following acceleration of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
provided
however
          SECTION 2.08 . (a) Each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurocurrency Rate. If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely
Interest Rate Determination
 
information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate under Section 2.07(a)(ii).
     (b) If, with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Required Lenders notify the Agent that (i) they are unable to obtain matching deposits in the London inter-bank market at or about 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the second Business Day before the making of a Borrowing in sufficient amounts to fund their respective Advances as a part of such Borrowing during its Interest Period or (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurocurrency Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (A) the Borrower will, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (1) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (2) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) exchange such Advances into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (B) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
     (c) If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances.
     (d) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than the Borrowing Minimum, such Advances shall automatically (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances.
     (e) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended.
     (f) If Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page is unavailable and fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any such Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
 
          (i) the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
          (ii) with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances, each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Currency, be prepaid by the Borrower or be automatically exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and
          (iii) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
          SECTION 2.09 . The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.08 and 2.12, Convert all Advances denominated in Dollars of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Advances denominated in Dollars of the other Type; , , that any Conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances, any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(b) and no Conversion of any Advances shall result in more separate Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(b). Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Dollar denominated Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.
Optional Conversion of Advances
provided
however
          SECTION 2.10 . (a) . The Borrower may, upon notice at least two Business Days' prior to the date of such prepayment, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, and not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part without premium or penalty, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; , , that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of not less than the Borrowing Minimum or a Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(c).
Prepayments of Advances
Optional
provided
however
     (b) . (i) If, on any date, the Agent notifies the Borrower that, on any interest payment date, the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Dollars plus the Available Amount of Letters of Credit then outstanding plus (B) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such interest payment date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Committed Currencies then outstanding exceeds 102% of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Lenders on such date, the Borrower shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, subject to the proviso to this sentence set forth below, prepay the outstanding principal amount of any Advances owing by the Borrower in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such sum to an amount not to exceed 100% of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Lenders on such date together with any interest accrued to
Mandatory
 
the date of such prepayment on the aggregate principal amount of Advances prepaid; that if the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances outstanding at the time of such required prepayment is less than the amount of such required prepayment, the portion of such required prepayment in excess of the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances then outstanding shall be deferred until the earliest to occur of the last day of the Interest Period of the outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Advances, in an aggregate amount equal to the excess of such required prepayment. The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b) to the Borrower and the Lenders, and shall provide prompt notice to the Borrower of any such notice of required prepayment received by it from any Lender.
provided
          (ii) Each prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.10(b) shall be made together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the principal amounts prepaid and, in the case of any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance on a date other than the last day of an Interest Period or at its maturity, any additional amounts which the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse to the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(c). The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b) to the Borrower and the Lenders.
          SECTION 2.11 . (a) If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation after the date hereof or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or European Union or similar monetary or multinational authority (whether or not having the force of law) promulgated after the date hereof, there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Advances or of agreeing to issue or of issuing or maintaining or participating in Letters of Credit (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.11 any such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.14 shall govern), (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof and (iii) FATCA), then the Borrower shall from time to time, within five Business Days after demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost; provided, however, that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a designation would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such increased cost and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender. A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs
     (b) If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) promulgated after the Effective Date affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments of this type, then, within five Business Days after demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corporation in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder. A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
 
     (c) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the circumstance giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the circumstance giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
     (d) For the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, for the purposes of this Section 2.11, (x) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, regulations, guidelines, interpretations or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith (whether or not having the force of law) and (y) all requests, rules, regulations, guidelines, interpretations or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority ) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities (whether or not having the force of law), in case for this clause (y) pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a change in law regardless of the date enacted, adopted, issued, promulgated or implemented.
          SECTION 2.12 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any Committed Currency or to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any Committed Currency hereunder, (a) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will automatically, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Currency, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; provided, however, that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
Illegality
          SECTION 2.13 . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder (other than with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency), irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set- off, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent at the applicable Agent's Account in same day funds. The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency, irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set-off, not later than 11:00 A.M. (at the Payment Office for such Committed Currency) on the day when due in such Committed Currency to the Agent, by deposit of such funds to the applicable Agent's Account in same day funds. The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or facility fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14 or 8.04(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in
Payments and Computations
 
each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of an extension of the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.18 or a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.19, and upon the Agent's receipt of such Lender's Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date or Extension Date, as the case may be, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Assumption and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.07(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Assumption, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Assumption shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
     (b) The Borrower hereby authorizes each Lender, if and to the extent payment owed to such Lender is not made when due hereunder or under the Note held by such Lender, to charge from time to time against any or all of the Borrower's accounts with such Lender any amount so due.
     (c) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate determined by reference to Citibank's base rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, all computations of interest based on the Eurocurrency Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of fees and Letter of Credit commissions shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days (or, in each case of Advances denominated in Sterling, on the basis of 365 days), in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest, fees or commissions are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
     (d) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest, fee or commission, as the case may be; , , that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurocurrency Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
     (e) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at (i) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (ii) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies.
     (f) To the extent that the Agent receives funds for application to the amounts owing by the Borrower under or in respect of this Agreement or any Note in currencies other than the currency or currencies required to enable the Agent to distribute funds to the Lenders in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.13, the Agent shall be entitled to convert or exchange
 
such funds into Dollars or into a Committed Currency to the extent necessary to enable the Agent to distribute such funds in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.13; provided that the Borrower and each of the Lenders hereby agree that the Agent shall not be liable or responsible for any loss, cost or expense suffered by the Borrower or such Lender as a result of any conversion or exchange of currencies affected pursuant to this Section 2.13(f) or as a result of the failure of the Agent to effect any such conversion or exchange; and provided further that the Borrower agrees to indemnify the Agent and each Lender, and hold the Agent and each Lender harmless, for any and all losses, costs and expenses incurred by the Agent or any Lender for any conversion or exchange of currencies (or the failure to convert or exchange any currencies) in accordance with this Section 2.13(f).
          SECTION 2.14 . (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower to or for the account of any Lender or the Agent hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.13 or the applicable provisions of such other documents, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding (i) in the case of each Lender and the Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income (including backup withholding taxes), and franchise taxes and branch profits taxes imposed on it, (x) by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its overall net income (including backup withholding taxes), and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof or (y) as the result of any other present or former connection between the Lender or Agent and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (other than a connection arising from such Lender or Agent having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced this Agreement, the Notes or any other document, or sold or assigned an interest in this Agreement, the Notes or any other document and (ii) any United States withholding tax imposed under FATCA (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Notes being hereinafter referred to as ""). If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note or any other documents to be delivered hereunder to any Lender or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
Taxes
     (b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes any other documents to be delivered hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
     (c) The Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, taxes of any kind imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14) imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification
 
shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor.
     (d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing such payment to the extent such a receipt is issued therefor, or other written proof of payment thereof that is reasonably satisfactory to the Agent. In the case of any payment hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder by or on behalf of the Borrower through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of the Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if the Borrower determines that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, the Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection (d) and subsection (e), the terms "" and "" shall have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.
United States
United States person
     (e) (i) Any Lender that is a United States person shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Agent), executed originals of Internal Revenue Service ("") Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from United States federal backup withholding tax;
IRS
          (ii) Each Foreign Lender, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Bank and on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter (but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so) as reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower, shall provide each of the Agent and the Borrower with two originals of whichever of the following is applicable, certifying that such Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes:
     (A) IRS Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty;
     (B) IRS Form W-8ECI:
     (C) to the extent a Foreign Lender is not the beneficial owner of payments received pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes, IRS Form W-8IMY, accompanied by IRS Form W-8ECI, IRS Form W-8BEN or IRS Form W-9, and/or other certification documents from each beneficial owner, as applicable;
     (D) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (1) a certificate to the effect that the Lender is not (a) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, (b) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, or (c) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code and (ii) IRS Form W-8BEN; or
     (E) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States federal withholding Tax, together
 
with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribe by applicable law to permit the Borrower or Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
          If the form provided by a Lender at the time such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form; , , that, if at the date of the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which a Lender assignee becomes a party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under subsection (a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date but only to the extent that the United States withholding tax rate applicable with respect to the Lender assignee does not exceed the rate applicable to the Lender assignor with respect to interest paid at the date of such Assignment and Assumption. If any form or document referred to in this subsection (e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service form W-9, W-8BEN, W-8ECI or W-8IMY (or in the case of a Lender assignee, other than the information required on such Internal Revenue Service forms or successor forms on the date of the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender assignee became a party to this Agreement), that the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential information.
provided
however
          (iii) If a payment made to a Lender would be subject to United States federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower as may be necessary for the Borrower to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. For purposes of this Section 2.14(e)(ii) FATCA shall include amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
     (f) For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form, certificate or other document described in Section 2.14(e) ( if such failure is due to a change in law, or in the interpretation or application thereof, occurring subsequent to the date on which a form, certificate or other document originally was required to be provided), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 2.14(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by reason of such failure; , , that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form, certificate or other document required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request to assist the Lender to recover such Taxes.
other
than
provided
however
     (g) Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.14 agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and
 
regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such additional amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
     (h) Each Lender (and the Agent with respect to payments to the Agent for its own account) agrees that (i) it will take all reasonable actions by all usual means to maintain all exemptions, if any, available to it from the United States withholding taxes (whether available by treaty, existing administrative waiver, by virtue of the location of any Lender's applicable Lending Office or otherwise) and (ii) it will otherwise reasonably cooperate with the Borrower to minimize amounts payable by the Borrower under this Section 2.14; , , that each Lender and the Agent shall not be obligated by reason of this subsection (h) to disclose any information regarding its tax affairs or tax computations or to reorder its tax or other affairs or tax or other planning.
provided
however
     (i) If any Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has actually and finally realized, by reason of a refund, deduction or credit of any Taxes paid or reimbursed by the Borrower pursuant to subsection (a) or (c) above in respect of payments under the Credit Agreement or the Notes, a current monetary benefit that it would otherwise not have obtained, and that would result in the total payments under this Section 2.14 exceeding the amount needed to make such Lender whole, such Lender shall pay to the Borrower, with reasonable promptness following the date on which it actually realizes such benefit, an amount equal to the lesser of the amount of such benefit or the amount of such excess, in each case net of all out-of-pocket expenses in securing such refund, deduction or credit; that nothing in this clause (i) shall require any Lender to make available its tax returns or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential.
provided
          SECTION 2.15 If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances owing to it (other than pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14 or 8.04(c)) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; provided, however, that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and each Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.15 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc.
          SECTION 2.16 . (a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Advances. The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender,
Evidence of Debt
 
the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Lender.
     (b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(c) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
     (c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
however
          SECTION 2.17 . The proceeds of the Advances and issuances of Letters of Credit shall be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds
          SECTION 2.18 . (a) At least 30 days but not more than 90 days prior to each anniversary of the Effective Date, the Borrower, by written notice to the Agent, may request an extension of the Termination Date in effect at such time by one year from its then scheduled expiration. The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, not later than 25 days prior to such anniversary date, notify the Borrower and the Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension. If any Lender shall fail to notify the Agent and the Borrower in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Termination Date at least 25 days prior to such anniversary date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request. The Agent shall promptly (but in any event not later than 20 days prior to such anniversary date) notify the Borrower of the decision of the Lenders pursuant to this Section 2.18 regarding the Borrower's request for an extension of the Termination Date.
Extension of Termination Date
     (b) If all the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable anniversary date (each, an ""), be extended for one year; that on each Extension Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02 shall be satisfied. If less than all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at such Extension Date and subject to subsection (d) of this Section 2.18, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a "") but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a ""). To the extent that the Termination Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.18 and the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.18 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Termination Date without any further notice or other action by the Borrower, such Lender or any other Person; that
Extension Date
provided
Consenting Lender
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
 
such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.05, shall survive the Termination Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date. It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Borrower for any requested extension of the Termination Date.
     (c) If less than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, the Agent shall promptly so notify the Consenting Lenders, and each Consenting Lender may, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent not later than 15 days prior to the applicable Extension Date of the amount of the Non-Consenting Lenders' Revolving Credit Commitments for which it is willing to accept an assignment. If the Consenting Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to accept assignments of Revolving Credit Commitments in an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments of the Non-Consenting Lenders, such Revolving Credit Commitments shall be allocated among the Consenting Lenders willing to accept such assignments in such amounts as are agreed between the Borrower and the Agent. If after giving effect to the assignments of Revolving Credit Commitments described above there remains any Revolving Credit Commitments of Non-Consenting Lenders, the Borrower may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or other Eligible Assignees (an "") to assume, effective as of the applicable Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender; , , that the amount of the Revolving Credit Commitment of any such Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $5,000,000 unless the amount of the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than $5,000,000, in which case such Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; and that:
Assuming Lender
provided
however
provided
further
          (i) any such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender shall have paid to such Non-Consenting Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Advances, if any, of such Non-Consenting Lender (B) any accrued but unpaid facility fees owing to such Non-Consenting Lender as of the effective date of such assignment;
plus
          (ii) all additional costs reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender; and
          (iii) with respect to any such Assuming Lender, the applicable processing and recordation fee required under Section 8.07(a) for such assignment shall have been paid;
that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.05, shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution. At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Borrower and the Agent an agreement (an "") in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent, duly executed by such Assuming Lender, such Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower and the Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Revolving Credit Commitment and (C) each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.18 shall have delivered to the Agent any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender. Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and
provided
further
Assumption Agreement
 
(iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender, as of the applicable Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
     (d) If (after giving effect to any assignments or assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.18) Lenders having Revolving Credit Commitments equal to at least 50% of the Revolving Credit Commitments in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Agent shall so notify the Borrower, and, subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions in Section 3.02, the Termination Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional one-year period as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the "" shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Termination Date as so extended. Promptly following an Extension Date, the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Termination Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such Assuming Lender.
Termination Date
          SECTION 2.19 . (a) The Borrower may, at any time but in any event not more than (x) three times in the first year after the Effective Date and (y) once in any following 12 month period prior to the Termination Date, by notice to the Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Commitment be increased by an amount of $25,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof, or such lesser amount as the Agent may agree, or in the case of an increase within the first six months after the Effective Date, by an amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof (each a "Commitment Increase"), to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled Termination Date then in effect (the "Increase Date") as specified in the related notice to the Agent; provided, however that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Commitments at any time exceed $1,500,000,000 and (ii) on the date of any request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02 shall be satisfied.
Increase in the Aggregate Commitments
          (b) The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of a request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Commitments (the ""). Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "") shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Commitment. If the Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Commitments by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Lenders willing to participate therein in such amounts as are agreed between the Borrower and the Agent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for each Commitment Increase occurring after the Effective Date pursuant to clause (x) of Section 2.19(a), the Borrower may identify those Persons to which such Commitment Increase will be available and (x) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the definition of Eligible Assignee, the Agent shall have no right to approve whether such Persons become Assuming Lenders in accordance with clause (c) below and (y) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this clause (b), the Lenders shall not be able to participate in any such Commitment Increase available to Persons proposed by the Borrower.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
 
          (c) Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Agent shall notify the Borrower as to the amount, if any, by which the Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase. If the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Borrower may extend offers to one or more Eligible Assignees as Assuming Lenders to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; , , that the Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof.
provided
however
          (d) On each Increase Date, each Assuming Lender shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.19(b)) as of such Increase Date; , , that the Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
provided
however
          (i) (A) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower or the Executive Committee of such Board approving the Commitment Increase and (B) an opinion of counsel for the Borrower (which may be in-house counsel), in substantially the form of Exhibit D hereto;
          (ii) an Assumption Agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, duly executed by such Assuming Lender, the Agent and the Borrower; and
          (iii) confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Commitment in a writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent.
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.19(d), the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) and the Borrower, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date.
          (e) On the Increase Date, if any Advances are then outstanding, the Borrower shall borrow from all or certain of the Lenders and/or (subject to compliance by the Borrower with Section 8.04(c)) prepay Advances of all or certain of the Lenders such that, after giving effect thereto, the Advances (including, without limitation, the Types, currencies and Interest Periods thereof) shall be held by the Lenders (including for such purposes the Increasing Lenders and the Assuming Lenders) ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. On and after each Increase Date, the Pro Rata Share of each Lender's participation in Letters of Credit and Advances from draws under Letters of Credit shall be calculated after giving effect to each such Commitment Increase.
          SECTION 2.20 . (a) If a Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, the following provisions shall apply:
Defaulting Lenders
     (i) unless a Default has occurred and is continuing, such Defaulting Lenders' Pro Rata Share of the L/C Obligations will, subject to the limitation in the first proviso below, automatically be reallocated (effective on the day such Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender) among the Non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Revolving Credit Commitments; that (A) the sum of each Non-Defaulting Lender's aggregate principal amount of Advances and allocated share of the L/C Obligations may not in any event exceed the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Non-Defaulting Lender as in effect at the time of such
pro
rata
provided
 
reallocation and (B) neither such reallocation nor any payment by a Non-Defaulting Lender pursuant thereto will constitute a waiver or release of any claim the Borrower, the Agent, any Issuing Bank or any other Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender or cause such Defaulting Lender to be a Non-Defaulting Lender;
     (ii) to the extent that any portion (the "") of the Defaulting Lender's share of the L/C Obligations cannot be so reallocated, whether by reason of the first proviso in clause (i) above or otherwise, the Borrower will, not later than three Business Days after demand by the Agent (at the direction of an Issuing Bank), (A) Cash Collateralize the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such L/C Obligations in an amount at least equal to the aggregate amount of the unreallocated portion of such L/C Obligations, or (B) make other arrangements satisfactory to the Agent and each Issuing Bank, as the case may be, in their sole discretion to protect them against the risk of non-payment by such Defaulting Lender and (iii) any amount paid by the Borrower or otherwise received by the Agent for the account of a Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether on account of principal, interest, fees, indemnity payments or other amounts) will not be paid or distributed to such Defaulting Lender, but will instead be retained by the Agent in a segregated non-interest bearing account until (subject to Section 2.20(d)) the termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrower hereunder and will be applied by the Agent, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to the making of payments from time to time in the following order of priority: to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent under this Agreement, to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to an Issuing Bank ( as to the respective amounts owing to each of them) under this Agreement, to the payment of post-default interest and then current interest due and payable to the Lenders hereunder other than Defaulting Lenders, ratably among them in accordance with the amounts of such interest then due and payable to them, as the Borrower may request (so long as no Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Advance in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Agent; to the payment of fees then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders hereunder, ratably among them in accordance with the amounts of such fees then due and payable to them, to pay principal then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders hereunder ratably in accordance with the amounts thereof then due and payable to them, to the ratable payment of other amounts then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders, to fund the Cash Collateralization requirements specified in clause (ii) above, , so long as no Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrower against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement, and after the termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrower hereunder, to pay amounts owing under this Agreement to such Defaulting Lender or as a court of competent jurisdiction may otherwise direct. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post cash collateral pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
unreallocated portion
first
second
pro
rata
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
seventh
eighth
ninth
tenth
     In furtherance of the foregoing, if any Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, each Issuing Bank is hereby authorized by the Borrower (which authorization is irrevocable and coupled with an interest) to give, in its discretion, through the Agent, Notices of Borrowing pursuant to Section 3.02 in such amounts and in such times as may be required to (i) reimburse an outstanding drawing under a Letter of Credit or (ii) Cash Collateralize the obligations of the Borrower in respect of outstanding Letters of Credit in an
 
amount at least equal to the aggregate amount of the obligations (contingent or otherwise) of such Defaulting Lender in respect of such Letter of Credit.
     (b) No Revolving Credit Commitment of any Lender shall be increased or otherwise affected, and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 2.20, performance by the Borrower of its obligations shall not be excused or otherwise modified as a result of the operation of this Section 2.20. The rights and remedies against a Defaulting Lender under this Section 2.20 are in addition to any other rights and remedies which the Borrower, the Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
     (c) No Defaulting Lender's Advances or Revolving Credit Commitment shall be included in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment or waiver pursuant to Section 8.01), and no waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of each affected Lender pursuant to Section 8.01(e), (f) or (g) shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender unless such Defaulting Lender is affected differently from other affected Lenders.
     (d) If the Borrower and the Agent agree in writing in their reasonable determination that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances and the L/C Obligations to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Pro Rata Shares, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from such Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
provided
further
          SECTION 2.21 . If (a) any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11, (b) the Borrower is required to pay additional amounts to any Lender or any governmental authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14, (c) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, or (d) any Lender does not approve any consent, waiver or amendment that (i) requires the approval of all affected Lenders in accordance with the terms of Section 8.01 and (ii) has been approved by the Required Lenders (a ""), then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 8.07), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an Eligible Assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that:
Replacement of Lenders
Non-Approving Lender
     (1) the Borrower shall have paid to the Agent the assignment fee (if any) specified in Section 8.07;
     (2) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances and funded participations in Letters of Credit, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder (including any amounts under Section 8.04(c)) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
 
     (3) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.11 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.14, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
     (4) such assignment does not conflict with applicable law; and
     (5) in the case of any assignment resulting from a Lender becoming a Non-Approving Lender, the applicable assignee shall have consented to the applicable amendment, waiver or consent.
          A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
          SECTION 3.01 . Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
     (a) There shall have occurred no Material Adverse Change since March 31, 2011, except as disclosed in public filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to July 27, 2011 or delivered to the Lenders prior to the date hereof.
     (b) There shall exist no action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pending or threatened before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect other than the matters described in public filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to July 27, 2011 or delivered to the Lenders prior to the date hereof (the "") or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, and there shall have been no material adverse change in the status, or financial effect on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described in public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to July 27, 2011 or delivered to the Lenders prior to the date hereof.
Disclosed Litigation
     (c) Nothing shall have come to the attention of the Lenders during the course of their due diligence investigation to lead them to believe that the information provided to the Lenders prior to the Effective Date was or has become misleading, incorrect or incomplete in any material respect; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Lenders shall have been given such access to the management, records, books of account, contracts and properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as they shall have reasonably requested.
     (d) All governmental and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained (without the imposition of any conditions that are not acceptable to the Lenders) and be in effect, and no law or regulation shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders that restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
     (e) The Borrower shall have notified each Lender and the Agent in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
     (f) The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and reasonable expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent) to the extent, in the case of up-front and arrangement fees, invoiced on or before the Effective Date and, in the case of all other fees and expenses, invoiced at least two Business Days before the Effective Date.
     (g) On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
          (i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
     (ii) No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
     (h) The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and (except for the Notes) in sufficient copies for each Lender:
          (i) From each party hereto either (A) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (B) written evidence satisfactory to the Agent (which may include facsimile or other electronic transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
          (ii) The Notes to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16.
          (iii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes.
          (iv) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
          (v) A favorable opinion of Jay H. Diamond, Esq., Vice President and Associate General Counsel of the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto and such other opinions or as to such other matters as the Agent or any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
          (vi) A favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent.
     (i) The Borrower shall have terminated the commitments of the lenders and repaid or prepaid all of the obligations under, the Credit Agreement dated as of August 29, 2007 among the Borrower, the lenders parties thereto and Citibank, N.A., as paying agent, and each of the Lenders that is a party to such credit facility hereby waives, upon execution of this Agreement, any notice required by said Credit Agreement relating to the termination of commitments thereunder.
 
          SECTION 3.02 . The obligation of each Lender to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing, the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue, amend or extend a Letter of Credit, each extension of Revolving Credit Commitments pursuant to Section 2.18 and each increase of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.19 shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Borrowing, issuance, amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, the applicable Extension Date or the applicable Increase Date the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing, Notice of Issuance, request for amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, request for Commitment Extension, request for Commitment Increase and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing or Letter of Credit shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing, such issuance, such amendment or extension, such Extension Date or such Increase Date such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing, Letter of Credit Issuance, Extension Date and Increase Date
     (a) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except the representation set forth in the last sentence of Section 4.01(e) and in Section 4.01(f) (other than clause (ii) thereof) are correct on and as of such date, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing, such issuance, amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, such Extension Date or such Increase Date and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and
     (b) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing, such issuance, amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, such Extension Date or such Increase Date or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default.
          In addition to the other conditions precedent herein set forth, if any Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, no Issuing Bank will be required to issue any Letter of Credit or to amend any outstanding Letter of Credit to increase the face amount thereof, alter the drawing terms thereunder or extend the expiry date thereof unless such Issuing Bank is reasonably satisfied that any exposure that would result therefrom is eliminated or fully covered by the Revolving Credit Commitments of the Non-Defaulting Lenders or by Cash Collateralization or a combination thereof reasonably satisfactory to such Issuing Bank.
          SECTION 3.03 . For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Borrower, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto. The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the occurrence of the Effective Date.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
          SECTION 4.01 . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
     (a) The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and is properly qualified to do business and in
 
good standing in, and where necessary to maintain its rights and privileges has complied with the fictitious name statute of, every jurisdiction where the failure to maintain such qualification, good standing or compliance could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter or by-laws or (ii) law or any material agreement binding on the Borrower or (iii) to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, any other agreement binding on the Borrower which, as to any agreement referred to in this clause (iii), could be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, (i) any governmental authority or regulatory body or (ii) any other third party under any material agreement binding on the Borrower or (iii) to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, under any other agreement binding on the Borrower, is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it, other than those authorizations or approvals or actions that have been obtained or notices or filings that have been made or, in the case of any third party under an agreement described in clause (iii), except to the extent that failure to obtain such authorization or approval or action, or make such notice or filing could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (d) This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes to be delivered by it when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower. This Agreement is, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
     (e) The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at March 31, 2011, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of KPMG LLP, independent public accountants, and the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at June 30, 2011, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the three months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects, subject, in the case of said balance sheet as at June 30, 2011, and said statements of income and cash flows for the three months then ended, to year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes, the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Since March 31, 2011, there has been no Material Adverse Change, except as disclosed in public filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to July 27, 2011 or delivered to the Lenders prior to the date hereof.
     (f) There is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed
 
Litigation) or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, and there has been no material adverse change in the status, or financial effect on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described in public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to July 27, 2011 or delivered to the Lenders prior to the date hereof.
     (g) The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used in a manner that would violate, or result in a violation of, such Regulation U.
     (h) The Borrower is not an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any Plan.
     (j) (i) As of the date of this Agreement, the funding target attainment percentage, as defined in Section 303(d)(2) of ERISA, of each Plan exceeds 90% and there has been no material adverse change in the funding status of any such Plan since such date; and (ii) as of the last annual actuarial valuation date, the funding target attainment percentage, as defined in Section 303(d)(2) of ERISA, of each Plan with a funding shortfall, as defined in Section 303(c)(4) of ERISA, in excess of $25,000,000 exceeds 90% and there has been no material adverse change in the funding status of any such Plan since such date.
     (k) Neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred or is reasonably expected to incur any Withdrawal Liability to any Multiemployer Plan.
     (l) Neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that such Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or has been terminated, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, and no such Multiemployer Plan is reasonably expected to be in reorganization or to be terminated, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
     (m) The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has good and marketable title to its properties and assets (other than those properties and assets the loss of which would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect) free and clear of all Liens or rights of others, except for Liens permitted by Section 5.02(a).
     (n) No information, schedule, exhibit or report furnished by the Borrower to the Agent or to any Lender in connection with this Agreement, or in connection with any Advance, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted a material fact necessary to make the statement made not misleading in light of all the circumstances existing at the date the statement was made; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
provided
 
          SECTION 5.01 . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder or any Letter of Credit shall be outstanding, the Borrower will:
Affirmative Covenants
     (a) . Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA and Environmental Laws, except in such instances in which such law, rule, regulation or order is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
     (b) . Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property; , , that neither the Borrower nor any of its Material Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
     (c) . Maintain, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary operates; , , that the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as other companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary operates and to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
however
     (d) . Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries may consummate any merger or consolidation permitted under Section 5.02(b) and that neither the Borrower nor any of its Material Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise or, in the case of any Material Subsidiary, corporate existence, if the Board of Directors of the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary, as the case may be, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Borrower, such Material Subsidiary or the Lenders.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
     (e) . At any reasonable time, from time to time during normal business hours, and, in the absence of an Event of Default, no more than once a year at the Borrower's expense, upon reasonable advance notice, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Material Subsidiaries with any of their officers or directors and with their independent certified public accountants; , , that when an Event of Default exists the Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective agents or representatives) may do any of the foregoing at any time during normal business hours and as often as may be desired.
Visitation Rights
provided
however
 
     (f) . Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
     (g) . Maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its material properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
     (h) . Conduct, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to conduct, all transactions otherwise permitted under this Agreement with any of their Affiliates on terms that are fair and reasonable and substantially no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than it would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate; that this covenant shall not limit (i) transactions with officers or directors of the Borrower to the extent that such transactions are consistent with past practice, (ii) transactions among Subsidiaries of the Borrower or (iii) transactions between the Borrower and any special purpose entity established in connection with a securitization permitted under Section 5.02(a)(viii).
Transactions with Affiliates
provided
     (i) . Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
          (i) as soon as available and in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and accompanied by a certificate of the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
          (ii) as soon as available and in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the annual audit report for such year for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders by KPMG LLP or other independent public accountants reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders and a certificate of the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
          (iii) as soon as possible and in any event within five Business Days after the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial
 
officer or treasurer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
          (iv) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all quarterly and annual reports that the Borrower sends to its public securityholders generally, and copies of all reports on Form 8-K and registration statements for the public offering (other than pursuant to employee plans) of securities that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange;
          (v) promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and
          (vi) such other information respecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any Plan or Multiemployer Plan as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
          Documents required to be delivered pursuant to may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the following website: or such other website designated by the Borrower to the Agent and the Lenders in a written notice; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Agent).
Section 5.01(i)(iv)
http://investor.ca.com/
          SECTION 5.02 . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder or any Letter of Credit shall be outstanding, the Borrower will not:
Negative Covenants
     (a) . Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
Liens, Etc
     (i) Permitted Liens,
     (ii) purchase money Liens upon or in any real property (including, without limitation, buildings and buildouts thereon) or equipment constructed, acquired or held by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price or cost of construction of such property or equipment or to secure Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition or construction of such property or equipment, or Liens existing on such property or equipment at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred to finance the acquisition of such property) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, , , that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any properties of any character other than the real property or equipment being acquired or constructed, and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any properties not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced,
provided
however
     (iii) the Liens existing on the Effective Date and described on Schedule 5.02(a) hereto,
 
     (iv) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower or becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower; that such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Borrower or such Subsidiary,
provided
     (v) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business,
     (vi) Liens in favor of the United States of America or any other governmental agencies or entities for amounts paid to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as progress payments under government contracts entered into by it,
     (vii) Liens on real property,
     (viii) Liens on accounts receivable (including, without limitation, license receivables), or sales, conveyances, transfers or other dispositions of accounts receivables (including, without limitation, license receivables) to secure Debt for Borrowed Money in connection with or to the extent otherwise related to securitization programs not in excess of $750,000,000 in the aggregate for all such securitization programs of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries,
     (ix) other Liens securing Debt or other obligations or claims in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed at any time outstanding an amount equal to 5% of net tangible assets of the Borrower and it Subsidiaries taken as a whole,
     (x) Liens on cash collateral provided under the terms of this Agreement
     (xi) Liens in favor of banks and other financial institutions, brokers and dealers arising in the normal course of business in connection with the acquisition and disposition of investments, cash management arrangements and other customary treasury activities of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, and
     (xii) the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by clause (iii), (iv) or (vii) above upon or in the same property or assets theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount or change in any direct or contingent obligor other than changes among Subsidiaries of the Borrower and changes from the Borrower to any of its Subsidiaries) of the Debt secured thereby.
     (b) . Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so, except that (i) any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into, or dispose of assets to, any other Subsidiary of the Borrower, (ii) any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into or dispose of assets to the Borrower, (iii) any Subsidiary of the Borrower formed for the purpose of acquiring any other Person may merge or consolidate with or into such other Person and (iv) any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into, or dispose of assets to, any other Person, , in each case, that no
Mergers, Etc
provided
 
Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom.
     (c) . Make, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by generally accepted accounting principles.
Accounting Changes
     (d) . Make or cause to be made any material change in the nature of the business carried on by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole at the date hereof.
Change in Nature of Business
          SECTION 5.03 . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder or any Letter of Credit shall be outstanding, the Borrower will:
Financial Covenants
     (a) . Maintain, as of any date, a ratio of Consolidated Debt for Borrowed Money of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of such date to Consolidated Cash Flow of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period of four fiscal quarters ended on or immediately prior to such date of not greater than 4.00 to 1.00.
Leverage Ratio
     (b) . Maintain, as of any date, a ratio of Consolidated Cash Flow of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period of four fiscal quarters ended on or immediately prior to such date to the sum of interest payable on, and amortization of debt discount in respect of, all Consolidated Debt for Borrowed Money of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during such period by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries of not less than 3.50 to 1.00.
Interest Coverage Ratio
          SECTION 6.01 . If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
     (a) The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
     (b) Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or by the Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
     (c) (i) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d) (as to the corporate existence of the Borrower), (e), (h) or (i)(iii), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Agent or any Lender; or
     (d) The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal or notional amount of at least
 
$100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
     (e) The Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
     (f) Judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and such judgment or order shall not have been vacated, discharged, stayed or bonded pending appeal within 30 days from the entry thereof; or
     (g) (i) Any Person or "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) shall have acquired beneficial ownership of 40% or more of any outstanding class of capital stock of the Borrower having ordinary voting power in the election of directors of the Borrower (other than any Person or "group" which owns such amount of capital stock on the date hereof); or (ii) during any period of up to 12 consecutive months, commencing before or after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such 12-month period were directors of the Borrower shall cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower (except to the extent that individuals who at the beginning of such 12-month period were replaced by individuals (x) elected by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower or (y) nominated for election by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower and thereafter elected as directors by the shareholders of the Borrower); or
     (h) The Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall incur liability in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of one or more of the following: (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of the Borrower or any of its ERISA
 
Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization or termination of a Multiemployer Plan;
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed (pursuant to Section 301 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any successor thereto) entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
however
          SECTION 6.02 . If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Agent may with the consent, or shall at the request, of the Required Lenders, irrespective of whether it is taking any of the actions described in Section 6.01 or otherwise, make demand upon the Borrower to, and forthwith upon such demand the Borrower will, (a) pay to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders in same day funds at the Agent's office designated in such demand, for deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding (but only to the extent such Available Amount has not already been Cash Collateralized) or (b) make such other arrangements in respect of the outstanding Letters of Credit as shall be acceptable to the Required Lenders; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed (pursuant to Section 301 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any successor thereto) entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit shall be immediately due and payable to the Agent for the account of the Lenders without notice to or demand upon the Borrower, which are expressly waived by the Borrower, to be held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account. If at any time the Agent determines that any funds held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account are subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Agent and the Lenders or that the total amount of such funds is less than the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit, the Borrower will, forthwith upon demand by the Agent, pay to the Agent, as additional funds to be deposited and held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to the excess of (a) such aggregate Available Amount over (b) the total amount of funds, if any, then held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account that the Agent determines to be free and clear of any such right and claim. Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit, to the extent funds are on deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, such funds shall be applied to reimburse the Issuing Banks to the extent permitted by applicable law. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon and all other obligations of the Borrower hereunder and under the Notes shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in such LC Cash Collateral Account shall be returned to the Borrower.
Actions in Respect of the Letters of Credit upon Default
provided
however
 
          SECTION 7.01 . Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereby irrevocably appoints Citibank to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third-party beneficiary of any of such provisions. It is understood and agreed that the use of the term "agent" herein (or any other similar term) with reference to the Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law. Instead such term is used as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between contracting parties.
Appointment and Authority
          SECTION 7.02 . The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers and obligations in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, own securities of, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for, and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
          SECTION 7.03 . (a) The Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein, and its duties hereunder shall be administrative in nature. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:
Exculpatory Provisions
     (i) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (ii) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein); that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law, including for the avoidance of doubt any action that may be in violation of the automatic stay under any debtor relief law or that may effect a forfeiture, modification or termination of property of a Defaulting Lender in violation of any debtor relief law; and
provided
     (iii) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
          (b) The Agent shall not be liable to any Lender or Issuing Bank for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 8.01 and Article VI), or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final
 
and nonappealable judgment. The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Agent in writing by the Borrower or a Lender.
          (c) The Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
          SECTION 7.04 . The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance, or the issuance, extension, renewal or increase of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or an Issuing Bank, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or Issuing Bank unless the Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or Issuing Bank prior to the making of such Advance or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Agent
          SECTION 7.05 . (a) The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Advances then owed to each of them (or if no Advances are at the time outstanding, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Revolving Credit Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under this Agreement (collectively, the "Indemnified Costs"), provided that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of the Indemnified Costs resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower. In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.05 applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Agent, any Lender or a third party.
Indemnification
          (b) Each Lender severally agrees to indemnify the Issuing Banks (to the extent not promptly reimbursed by the Borrower) from and against such Lender's ratable share (determined as provided below) of any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against any such Issuing Bank in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by such Issuing Bank hereunder or in connection herewith;
 
, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from such Issuing Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse any such Issuing Bank promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any costs and expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of counsel) payable by the Borrower under Section 8.04, to the extent that such Issuing Bank is not promptly reimbursed for such costs and expenses by the Borrower.
provided
however
,
          (c) For purposes of this Section 7.05, the Lenders' respective ratable shares of any amount shall be determined, at any time, according to the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of the Advances outstanding at such time and owing to the respective Lenders, (ii) their respective Pro Rata Shares of the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding at such time and (iii) their respective Unused Commitments at such time; that the aggregate principal amount of Advances owing to the Issuing Banks as a result of drawings under Letters of Credit shall be considered to be owed to the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Revolving Credit Commitments. The failure of any Lender to reimburse the Agent or any such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any amount required to be paid by the Lenders to such Agent or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, as provided herein shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to reimburse such Agent or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for its ratable share of such amount, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to reimburse the Agent or any such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such other Lender's ratable share of such amount. Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of any Lender hereunder, the agreement and obligations of each Lender contained in this Section 7.05 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes.
provided
          SECTION 7.06 . The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent. The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the Facilities as well as activities as Agent. The Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any sub-agents except to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction determines in a final and non appealable judgment that the Agent acted with gross negligence or willful misconduct in the selection of such sub-agents.
Delegation of Duties
          SECTION 7.07 . (a) The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Borrower (so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing), to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the "Resignation Effective Date"), then the retiring Agent may (but shall not be obligated to), on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, with the consent of the Borrower (so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing), appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above. Whether or not a successor has been appointed, such resignation shall become effective in accordance with such notice on the Resignation Effective Date.
Resignation of Agent
          (b) If the Person serving as Agent is a Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (v) of the definition thereof, the Required Lenders may, and will, if requested in writing by the Borrower, to the
 
extent permitted by applicable law, by notice in writing to the Borrower and such Person remove such Person as Agent and, with the consent of the Borrower (so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing), appoint a successor. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then such removal shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice on the Removal Effective Date.
Removal Effective Date
          (c) With effect from the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date (as applicable) (1) the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder (except that in the case of any Cash Collateral held by the Agent on behalf of the Lenders or the Issuing Banks hereunder, the retiring or removed Agent shall continue to hold such Cash Collateral until such time as a successor Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and Issuing Bank directly, until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring or removed Agent, and the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring or removed Agent's resignation or removal hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring or removed Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring or removed Agent was acting as Agent.
          (d) Any resignation pursuant to this Section by a Person acting as Agent shall, unless such Person shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders otherwise, also act to relieve such Person and its Affiliates of any obligation to advance or issue new, or extend existing, Letters of Credit where such advance, issuance or extension is to occur on or after the effective date of such resignation. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, (i) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Issuing Bank, (ii) the retiring Issuing Bank shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder and (iii) the successor Issuing Bank shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangement satisfactory to the retiring Issuing Bank to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring Issuing Bank with respect to such Letters of Credit.
          SECTION 7.08 . Each Lender and Issuing Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and Issuing Bank also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder.
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders
          SECTION 7.09 . Each Lender hereby acknowledges that no syndication agent and no documentation agent nor any other Lender designated as any "Agent" (other than the Agent) on the signature pages or the cover hereof has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender.
Other Agents
 
          SECTION 8.01 No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Borrower and the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; provided, however, that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Borrower and each Lender affected thereby, do any of the following: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (b) increase the Commitments of the Lenders (other than as provided in Sections 2.18 or 2.19, provided that, any increase in the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments in excess of $1,500,000,000 will require the consent of all of the Lenders), (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or, to the extent then accrued, other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or, to the extent then accrued, other amounts payable hereunder (other than as provided in Section 2.18), (e) change the percentage of the Revolving Credit Commitments, the aggregate Available Amount of outstanding Letters of Credit or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, (f) alter the manner in which payment or prepayments of principal, interest or other amounts hereunder shall be applied as among the Lenders or (g) amend this Section 8.01; and provided further that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note; and provided further that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Issuing Banks in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, adversely affect the rights or obligations of the Issuing Banks under this Agreement.
Amendments, Etc.
          SECTION 8.02 (a) Notices Generally. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows:
Notices, Etc.
     (i) if to the Borrower, to it at One CA Plaza, Islandia, New York 11788-7000, Attention of Treasurer (Facsimile No. (631) 342-5117; Telephone No. (631) 342-3887), with a copy (other than in the case of administrative notices) to Attention: General Counsel (Facsimile No. (631) 342-6550; Telephone No. (631) 342-2655);
     (ii) if to the Agent, to Citibank, N.A. at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Attention of Bank Loan Syndications; (Facsimile No. (212) 994-0961; Telephone No. (302) 323-3188);
     (iii) if any Issuing Bank, to it at the address provided in writing to the Agent and the Borrower at the time of its appointment as an Issuing Bank hereunder;
     (iv) if to a Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to
 
have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications, to the extent provided in paragraph (b) below, shall be effective as provided in said paragraph (b).
          (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to Article II if such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, has notified the Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
provided
          Unless the Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient, at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i), of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor; that, for both clauses (i) and (ii) above, if such notice, email or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient.
provided
          (c) . Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address, etc
          (d) .
Platform
     (i) The Borrower agrees that the Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the Communications (as defined below) available to the Issuing Banks and the other Lenders by posting the Communications on Debt Domain, Intralinks, Syndtrak or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").
Platform
     (ii) The Platform is provided "as is" and "as available." The Agent Parties (as defined below) do not warrant the adequacy of the Platform and expressly disclaim liability for errors or omissions in the Communications. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third-party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by any Agent Party in connection with the Communications or the Platform. In no event shall the Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person or entity for damages of any kind, including, without limitation, direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, losses or expenses (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Agent's transmission of communications through the Platform. "" means, collectively, any notice, demand, communication, information, document or other material that the Borrower provides to the Agent pursuant to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated herein which is distributed to the Agent, any Lender or any
Agent Parties
Communications
 
Issuing Bank by means of electronic communications pursuant to this Section, including through the Platform.
          SECTION 8.03 . No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
          SECTION 8.04 . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay reasonably promptly after demand all reasonable costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Borrower further agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 8.04(a).
Costs and Expenses
          (b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "") from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of any investigation, litigation or proceeding (or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) relating to the Notes, this Agreement, the commitment letters delivered in connection with this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances, except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Indemnified Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct. In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which the indemnity in this Section 8.04(b) applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, its directors, equityholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person, whether or not any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated. The Borrower, to the extent permitted by applicable law, also agrees not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents, on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances.
Indemnified Party
          (c) If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurocurrency Rate Advance is made by the Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.08, 2.10 or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.07 as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to Section 8.07(a) or if the Borrower shall fail to prepay any Eurocurrency Advance in accordance with any notice given under Section 2.10, the Borrower shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of
 
such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance. If the amount of the Committed Currency purchased by any Lender in the case of a Conversion or exchange of Advances in the case of Section 2.08 or 2.12 exceeds the sum required to satisfy such Lender's liability in respect of such Advances, such Lender agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
          (d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes and the termination of this Agreement.
          SECTION 8.05 . Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Notes due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and the Note held by such Lender, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such Note and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application, provided that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) that such Lender and its Affiliates may have.
Right of Set-off
          SECTION 8.06 . This Agreement shall become effective (other than Section 2.01, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Bank that such Bank has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all of the Lenders (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower shall be null and void).
Binding Effect
          SECTION 8.07 . (a) Successors and Assigns Generally. No Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of paragraph (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any Lender shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in paragraph (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Assignments and Participations
          (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of
Assignments by Lenders
 
its Commitment and the Advances at the time owing to it); that (in each case with respect to any Facility) any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
provided
          (i) .
Minimum Amounts
     (A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and/or the Advances at the time owing to it (in each case with respect to any Facility) or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
     (B) in any case not described in paragraph (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Advances outstanding thereunder) or, if the applicable Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Advances of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Agent or, if "" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
Trade Date
     (ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Advance or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations among separate Facilities on a non-pro rata basis.
Proportionate Amounts
     (iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
     (A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (x) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment, or (y) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect of such Lender (in each case, so long as such Lender is not a Defaulting Lender); that the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Agent within ten Business Days after having received notice thereof;
provided
     (B) the consent of the Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments in respect of the Revolving Credit Facility if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender (in each case, so long as such Lender is not a Defaulting Lender); and
     (C) the consent of each Issuing Bank shall be required for any assignment in respect of the Revolving Credit Facility.
     (iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; that the Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing
Assignment and Assumption
provided
 
and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
     (v) . No such assignment shall be made to (A) the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries or (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (B).
No Assignment to Certain Persons
     (vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural Person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
     (vii) . In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Borrower and the Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Advances previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent, each Issuing Bank and each other Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon), and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Advances and participations in Letters of Credit in accordance with its Pro Rata Share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Certain Additional Payments
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Agent pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.12 and 7.05 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment; , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no assignment by a Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Section.
provided
          (c) . The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in the United States a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the
Register
Register
 
Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
          (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Agent, sell participations to any Person (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Advances owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, and (iii) the Borrower, the Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, each Lender shall be responsible for the indemnity under Section 7.05 with respect to any payments made by such Lender to its Participant(s).
Participations
Participant
provided
          Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver that would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts due and payable hereunder, or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts due and payable hereunder that affects such Participant. The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.11 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; that such Participant agrees to be subject to the provisions of Section 2.21 as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 8.05 as though it were a Lender; that such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.15 as though it were a Lender.
provided
provided
provided
          (e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.11 or 2.14 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.14(e) as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
          (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank or other central banking authority; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
          (h) Each Issuing Bank may assign to an Eligible Assignee its rights and obligations or any portion of the undrawn Letter of Credit Commitment at any time; , , that (i) the amount of the Letter of Credit Commitment of the assigning Issuing Bank being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $1,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and (ii) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500.
provided
however
 
          SECTION 8.08 . Each of the Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any Note or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any Note or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives) to any swap or derivative or similar transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Borrower and its obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder, (iii) any rating agency, or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) is or becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Agent, any Lender, the Issuing Bank or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower (unless the Person receiving such Information is receiving such Information from a source in violation of a confidentiality agreement and such violation is known to such Person).
Confidentiality
          "" means all information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
          SECTION 8.09 . This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          SECTION 8.10 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier or other electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
          SECTION 8.11 . (a) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase Dollars with such other currency at Citibank's principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
Judgment
 
          (b) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in a Committed Currency into Dollars, the parties agree to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase such Committed Currency with Dollars at Citibank's principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
          (c) The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any sum due from it in any currency (the "") to any Lender or the Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any other currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be), of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the applicable Primary Currency with such other currency; if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased is less than such sum due to such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased exceeds such sum due to any Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
Primary Currency
          SECTION 8.12 (a) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that it will not commence any action, litigation or proceeding of any kind or description, whether in law or equity, whether in contract or in tort or otherwise, against the Agent, any Lender or any Related Party of the foregoing in any way relating to this Agreement or any Note or the transactions relating hereto or thereto, in any forum other than the courts of the State of New York sitting in New York County, and of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, and each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the jurisdiction of such courts and agrees that all claims in respect of any such action, litigation or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in such federal court. Each of the parties hereto consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to such party at its address specified pursuant to Section 8.02. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.
Jurisdiction, Etc.
          (b) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
          SECTION 8.13 . If a change in any Committed Currency occurs pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation of any governmental, monetary or multi-national authority, this Agreement (including, without limitation, the definitions of Eurocurrency Rate) will be amended to the extent determined by the Agent (acting reasonably and in consultation with the Borrower) to be necessary to reflect the change in currency and to put the Lenders and the Borrower in the same position, so far as possible, that they would have been in if no change in such Committed Currency had occurred.
Substitution of Currency
 
          SECTION 8.14 . The Borrower assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit with respect to its use of such Letter of Credit. Neither an Issuing Bank nor any of its officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for: (a) the use that may be made of any Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (b) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (c) payment by such Issuing Bank against presentation of documents that do not strictly comply with the terms of a Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to the Letter of Credit; or (d) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit, except that the Borrower shall have a claim against such Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall be liable to the Borrower, to the extent of any direct, but not consequential, damages suffered by the Borrower that the Borrower proves were caused by such Issuing Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence as determined in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, such Issuing Bank may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary.
No Liability of the Issuing Banks
          SECTION 8.15 . Each Lender and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub.L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Patriot Act"), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. The Borrower, to the extent commercially reasonable, shall provide such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lenders in order to assist the Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act
          SECTION 8.16 . Each of the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes or the actions of the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.
Waiver of Jury Trial
          SECTION 8.17 . The Borrower agrees that in connection with all aspects of the transactions contemplated hereby and any communications in connection therewith, the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Agent, the Issuing Banks, the Lenders and their respective Affiliates, on the other hand, will have a business relationship that does not create, by implication or otherwise, any fiduciary duty on the part of the Agent, the Issuing Banks, the Lenders or their respective Affiliates and no such duty will be deemed to have arisen in connection with any such transactions or communications.
No Fiduciary Duties
          SECTION 8.18 . Each Lender party hereto that is a lender under the U.S. $1,000,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of August 29, 2007 (as amended or modified from time to time prior to the date hereof, the ""), among the Borrower, Citibank, N.A., as paying agent, and the lenders and other financial institutions party thereto hereby agrees that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 2.05 of the Existing Credit Agreement, no advance notice need be delivered in connection with the termination of the commitments thereunder.
Waiver of Advance Notice Under Existing Credit Agreement
Existing Credit Agreement
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE I CA, INC. CREDIT AGREEMENT COMMITMENTS
 
EXHIBIT A  FORM OF REVOLVING CREDIT PROMISSORY NOTE
U.S.$_______________                                                          Dated: _______________, 201__
          FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, CA, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the "") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the Termination Date (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement dated as of August 19, 2011 among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on the Termination Date.
Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
          The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
          Both principal and interest in respect of each Advance (i) in Dollars are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to the Agent at its account maintained at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, in same day funds and (ii) in any Committed Currency are payable in such currency at the applicable Payment Office in same day funds. Each Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
          This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note, (ii) contains provisions for determining the Dollar Equivalent of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies and (iii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
 
 
EXHIBIT B  FORM OF NOTICE OF BORROWING
Citibank, N.A., as Agent  for the Lenders parties  to the Credit Agreement  referred to below 1615 Brett Road, Building #3 New Castle, Delaware 19720
          Attention: Bank Loan Syndications
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          The undersigned, CA, Inc., refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of August 19, 2011 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Borrowing (the "") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Borrowing
     (i) The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is _______________, 201__.
     (ii) The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances].
     (iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Borrowing is $_______________][for a Borrowing in a Committed Currency, list currency and amount of Borrowing].
     [(iv) The initial Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Borrowing is _____ month[s].]
          The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
     (A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (except the representation set forth in the last sentence of Section 4.01(e) and in Section 4.01(f) (other than clause (ii) thereof) of the Credit Agreement) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
 
     (B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default.
 
CUSIP Number:___________________ EXHIBIT C  FORM OF ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
          This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each] Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] "") and [the][each] Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ""). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees] hereunder are several and not joint.] Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by [the][each] Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
11
Assignor
12
Assignee
13
14
Credit Agreement
          For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignor's][the respective Assignors'] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below (including without limitation any letters of credit included in such facilities), and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
1. Assignor[s]: ______________________
 
 
[7. Trade Date: ______________]
20
 
 
Effective Date: _____________ ___, 20___ [TO BE INSERTED BY AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
[Consented to and] Accepted:
23
CITIBANK, N.A., as    Agent
[Consented to:]
24
 
 
[NAME OF RELEVANT PARTY]
 
ANNEX 1
          1. .
Representations and Warranties
          1.1 . [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim, (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (iv) it is [not] a Defaulting Lender; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the Credit Agreement, or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Assignor[s]
          1.2. . [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section 8.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 8.07(b)(iii) of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by the Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire the Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(k) thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee[s]
          2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignee whether such amounts have accrued prior to, on or after the
Payments
 
Effective Date. The Assignor[s] and the Assignee[s] shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments by the Agent for periods prior to the Effective Date or with respect to the making of this assignment directly between themselves.
          3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy or other electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT D  FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL FOR THE BORROWER


