FILE:CA/CA-8K-20120726161034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report:
July 26, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
CA, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
(800) 225-5224
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Not applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On July 26, 2012, CA, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and it shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
CA Technologies Reports First Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Results
Revenue
$1.145 Billion, Up 1 Percent in Constant Currency and Down 2 Percent as Reported
GAAP EPS $0.51, Up 11 Percent in Constant Currency and 13 Percent as Reported
Non-GAAP EPS $0.63, Up 16 Percent in Constant Currency and 15 Percent as Reported
Cash Flow from Continuing Operations $183 Million, Up 10 Percent in Constant Currency and 28 Percent as Reported
IP Transaction Adds $0.05 to GAAP and Non-GAAP EPS, and $35 Million to Cash Flow from Continuing Operations
Updates Revenue, GAAP and Non-GAAP EPS Outlook for Full Fiscal Year 2013
ISLANDIA, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 26, 2012--CA Technologies (NASDAQ:CA) today reported financial results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2013, ended June 30, 2012.
EXECUTIVE COMMENTARY
Despite the headwinds to top-line growth we experienced during the first quarter, we remain committed to delivering the earnings per share and cash flow from operations growth we provided at the beginning of the fiscal year, said Bill McCracken, chief executive officer, CA Technologies. In addition to the benefits of a $35 million intellectual property transaction we closed during the quarter, we will drive increased profitability in our organic business and now expect to deliver further expansion of our GAAP operating margin to 31 percent and our non-GAAP operating margin to 36 percent for the full fiscal year.
REVENUE AND BOOKINGS
In constant currency, revenue from existing products and services was flat, while revenue increased 1 percent from acquired technologies. On an as reported basis, revenue from existing products and services decreased 2 percent, while revenue from acquired technologies increased less than 1 percent. Acquired technologies are defined as technologies acquired within the past 12 months. About 63 percent of the Companys revenue came from North America, while 37 percent came from International operations.
Revenue year-over-year:
Total revenue was $1.145 billion, up 1 percent in constant currency and down 2 percent as reported.
Total revenue backlog was $7.771 billion, down 5 percent in constant currency and 9 percent as reported. The current portion of revenue backlog was $3.527 billion, down 1 percent in constant currency and 5 percent as reported.
North America revenue was $726 million, up 2 percent in constant currency and 1 percent as reported.
International revenue was $419 million, up 1 percent in constant currency and down 6 percent as reported.
Bookings year-over-year:
Total bookings in the first quarter were $553 million, down 34 percent in constant currency and 36 percent as reported, primarily due to a decrease in renewals. The Company previously stated that it expected its fiscal year 2013 renewal portfolio to decline in the single digits year-over-year with the first quarter being the low point.
The Company renewed a total of 4 license agreements with incremental contract values in excess of $10 million each, for an aggregate contract value of $61 million. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, the Company renewed a total of 8 license agreements with incremental contract values in excess of $10 million each, for an aggregate contract value of $255 million.
The weighted average duration of subscription and maintenance bookings for the quarter was 2.79 years, compared with 3.28 years for the same period in fiscal year 2012.
North America bookings were $326 million, down 39 percent in constant currency and as reported.
International bookings were $227 million, down 26 percent in constant currency and 31 percent as reported.
EXPENSES AND MARGIN
As part of the Companys efforts to more fully utilize its intellectual property assets, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, it closed a transaction that assigned the rights to certain intellectual property assets to a large technology company for $35 million. The Company will continue to have the right to use these intellectual property assets in current and future product offerings. For the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, total expenses before interest and income taxes includes the positive effect of $35 million received from this transaction.
Year-over-year GAAP results:
Operating expenses, before interest and income taxes, were $764 million, down 3 percent in constant currency and 7 percent as reported.
Operating income, before interest and income taxes, was $381 million, up 10 percent in constant currency and 11 percent as reported.
Operating margin was 33 percent, up 4 percentage points from the prior year period.
Year-over-year non-GAAP results exclude purchased software and other intangibles amortization, share-based compensation, and certain other gains and losses. The results also include gains and losses on hedges that mature within the quarter, but exclude gains and losses of hedges that do not mature within the quarter.
Operating expenses, before interest and income taxes, were $706 million, down 2 percent in constant currency and 5 percent as reported.
Operating income, before interest and income taxes, was $439 million, up 8 percent in constant currency and 5 percent as reported.
Operating margin was 38 percent, up 2 percentage points from the prior year period.
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, the Companys effective GAAP tax rate was 35.1 percent, compared with 31.5 percent in the prior year period. The Companys effective non-GAAP tax rate was 30.6 percent, compared with 31.6 percent in the prior year period.
GAAP and non-GAAP EPS were favorably affected by about $0.05 per share from the intellectual property transaction. In addition, GAAP and non-GAAP EPS were positively affected by a reduction in share count. The intellectual property transaction also had a positive impact of about 3 percentage points on both GAAP and non-GAAP operating margin.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Mainframe Solutions revenue was $628 million, flat in constant currency and down 3 percent as reported. Operating expense was $260 million and operating profit was $368 million. Operating margin was 59 percent, up from 57 percent a year ago.
Enterprise Solutions revenue was $426 million, up 2 percent in constant currency and flat as reported. Operating expense was $359 million and operating profit was $67 million. Operating margin was 16 percent, up from 11 percent a year ago. The intellectual property transaction had a favorable effect of about 8 percentage points on this margin.
Services revenue was $91 million, up 4 percent in constant currency and 1 percent as reported. Operating expense was $87 million and operating profit was $4 million. Operating margin was 4 percent, up from 2 percent a year ago.
CASH FLOW FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Cash flow from continuing operations in the first quarter was $183 million, which includes the $35 million received from the intellectual property transaction, compared with $143 million in the prior year. Cash flow from continuing operations was also favorably affected by lower income tax payments and an increase in upfront cash collections.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Cash and cash equivalents at June 30, 2012 were $2.541 billion.
With $1.298 billion in total debt outstanding and $140 million in notional pooling, the Companys net cash and cash equivalents was $1.103 billion.
During the quarter, the Company successfully completed its Accelerated Share Repurchase (ASR) agreement with the receipt of 3.7 million common shares, in addition to the 15 million shares received in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012.
Subsequent to the completion of the ASR, the Company repurchased 3.8 million shares in the market for approximately $96 million.
The Company is currently authorized to repurchase an additional $900 million of common stock through fiscal year 2014.
The Companys outstanding share count at June 30, 2012 was 463 million.
During the quarter, the Company distributed $119 million in dividends.
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
During the first quarter the Company:
Announced a new CA Global Partner Program that provides an expanded set of benefits to support partners evolving business models. The program supports efforts by solution providers, service providers, alliance partners and resellers to enable customers to deliver innovative business services. Later in the quarter, the program was extended to include next-generation mainframe modernization solutions to help customers reduce costs and increase efficiency.
Announced it has extended its university relationship program with plans to roll out a new Innovation Center in partnership with Tel Aviv University (TAU) in Israel, collaborating on topics such as IT management and cyber security. The announcement builds on its programs recently announced at the University Innovation Center in Hyderabad, India and at the CA Technologies Innovation Center at Stony Brook University in New York.
Announced that channel partners with expert proficiency in CA Automation Suite for Clouds now meet the Cloud Management Competency Validation criteria for the Cloud Builder designation of the Cisco Cloud Partner Program.
Announced Nimsoft Monitor has attained the VCE and Vblock Ready certification. This enables users to confidently leverage Nimsoft IT Management-as-a-Service capabilities to rapidly and cost-efficiently gain full visibility into their Vblock infrastructurealong with the rest of their cloud and non-cloud environments.
Announced a new version of CA Process Automation that helps customers increase agility for competitive advantage while lowering costs.
OUTLOOK FOR FISCAL YEAR 2013
The Company updated its revenue and GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations outlook and reaffirmed cash flow from continuing operations guidance for fiscal year 2013. The following guidance consists of "forward-looking statements" (as defined below).
The Company expects the following:
Total revenue growth in a range of 1 percent to 2 percent in constant currency. At June 30, 2012 exchange rates, this translates to reported revenue of $4.74 billion to $4.80 billion. Previously, total revenue growth outlook was in a range of 2 percent to 4 percent in constant currency.
GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations growth in constant currency in a range of 12 percent to 14 percent. At June 30, 2012 exchange rates, this translates to GAAP reported diluted earnings per share of $2.07 to $2.12. Previously, GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in constant currency was 10 percent to 14 percent.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations growth in constant currency in a range of 10 percent to 12 percent. At June 30, 2012 exchange rates, this translates to reported non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.45 to $2.50. Previously, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in constant currency was 9 percent to 12 percent.
Cash flow from continuing operations growth in a range of 4 percent to 6 percent in constant currency. At June 30, 2012 exchange rates, this translates to reported cash flow from continuing operations of $1.54 billion to $1.57 billion.
This outlook also assumes no material acquisitions and a partial currency hedge of operating income. The Company expects a full-year GAAP operating margin of 31 percent, up from the previous guidance of 30 percent, and non-GAAP operating margin of 36 percent, up from a previous outlook of 35 percent. The Company also expects an effective full-year GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate to come in closer to the high-end of the 30 to 31 percent provided at the outset of the fiscal year.
The Company anticipates approximately 452 million shares outstanding at fiscal year 2013 year-end and weighted average diluted shares outstanding of approximately 459 million for the fiscal year.
Webcast
This news release and the accompanying tables should be read in conjunction with additional content that is available on the Companys website, including a supplemental financial package, as well as a webcast that the Company will host at 5 p.m. ET today to discuss its unaudited first quarter results. The webcast will be archived on the website. Individuals can access the webcast, as well as this press release and supplemental financial information, at or listen to the call at 1-877-561-2748. The international participant number is 1-720-545-0044.
http://ca.com/invest
About CA Technologies
CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) provides IT management solutions that help customers manage and secure complex IT environments to support agile business services. Organizations leverage CA Technologies software and SaaS solutions to accelerate innovation, transform infrastructure and secure data and identities, from the data center to the cloud. Learn more about CA Technologies at .
www.ca.com
Follow CA Technologies
Twitter
Social Media Page
Press Releases
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This news release, the accompanying tables and the additional content that is available on the Company's website, including a supplemental financial package, includes certain financial measures that exclude the impact of certain items and therefore have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Non-GAAP metrics for operating expenses, operating income, operating margin, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share exclude the following items: non-cash amortization of purchased software and other intangibles, share-based compensation, fiscal year 2007 restructuring costs and certain other gains and losses, which includes the gains and losses since inception of hedges that mature within the quarter, but exclude gains and losses of hedges that do not mature within the quarter. In fiscal year 2011, non-GAAP income also excludes recoveries and certain costs associated with derivative litigation matters. The effective tax rate on GAAP and non-GAAP income from operations is the Company's provision for income taxes expressed as a percentage of pre-tax GAAP and non-GAAP income from continuing operations, respectively. Such tax rates are determined based on an estimated effective full year tax rate, with the effective tax rate for GAAP generally including the impact of discrete items in the period such items arise and the effective tax rate for non-GAAP income generally allocating the impact of discrete items pro rata to the fiscal year's remaining reporting periods. Adjusted cash flow from operations excludes restructuring and other payments. Free cash flow excludes purchases of property, equipment and capitalized software development costs. We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than US dollars are converted into US dollars at the exchange rate in effect on March 31, 2012, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year. Constant currency excludes the impacts from the Company's hedging program. The constant currency calculation for annualized subscription and maintenance bookings is calculated by dividing the subscription and maintenance bookings in constant currency by the weighted average subscription and maintenance duration in years. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. By excluding these items, non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and cash flows, to competitors' operating results and cash flows, and to estimates made by securities analysts. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate its performance and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. In addition, the Company has historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to its investors and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this news release to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, which are attached to this news release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The declaration and payment of future dividends is subject to the determination of the Company's Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, after considering various factors, including the Company's financial condition, historical and forecast operating results, and available cash flow, as well as any applicable laws and contractual covenants and any other relevant factors. The Company's practice regarding payment of dividends may be modified at any time and from time to time.
Repurchases under the Company's stock repurchase program are expected to be made with cash on hand and may be made from time to time, subject to market conditions and other factors, in the open market, through solicited or unsolicited privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. The program, which is authorized through the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014, does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be modified or suspended at any time at the Company's discretion.
Certain statements in this communication (such as statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates," "targets" and similar expressions) constitute "forward-looking statements" that are based upon the beliefs of, and assumptions made by, the Company's management, as well as information currently available to management. These forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the ability to achieve success in the Company's strategy by, among other things, effectively rebalancing the Company's sales force to increase penetration in growth markets and with large enterprises that have not historically been significant customers, enabling the sales force to sell new products, improving the Company's brand in the marketplace and ensuring the Company's set of cloud computing, Software-as-a-Service and other new offerings address the needs of a rapidly changing market, while not adversely affecting the demand for the Company's traditional products or its profitability; global economic factors or political events beyond the Company's control; general economic conditions and credit constraints, or unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, industry or business sector; the failure to adapt to technological changes and introduce new software products and services in a timely manner; competition in product and service offerings and pricing; the failure to expand partner programs; the ability to retain and attract adequate qualified personnel; the ability to integrate acquired companies and products into existing businesses; the ability to adequately manage and evolve financial reporting and managerial systems and processes; the ability of the Company's products to remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments; breaches of the Company's software products and the Company's and customers' data centers and IT environments; discovery of errors in the Company's software and potential product liability claims; the failure to protect the Company's intellectual property rights and source code; risks associated with sales to government customers; access to software licensed from third parties; risks associated with the use of software from open source code sources; access to third-party code and specifications for the development of code; third-party claims of intellectual property infringement or royalty payments; fluctuations in the number, terms and duration of the Company's license agreements as well as the timing of orders from customers and channel partners; the failure to renew large license transactions on a satisfactory basis; changes in market conditions or the Company's credit ratings; fluctuations in foreign currencies; the failure to effectively execute the Company's workforce reductions; successful outsourcing of various functions to third parties; events or circumstances that would require us to record a goodwill impairment charge; potential tax liabilities; acquisition opportunities that may or may not arise; and other factors described more fully in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or should our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as believed, planned, anticipated, expected, estimated, targeted or similarly expressed in a forward-looking manner. The Company assumes no obligation to update the information in this communication, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
Copyright  2012 CA, Inc. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y. 11749. All other trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
CONTACT: CA Technologies Dan Kaferle Public Relations, 631-342-2111 or Kelsey Doherty Investor Relations, 212-415-6844
daniel.kaferle@ca.com
kelsey.doherty@ca.com


