FILE:RF/RF-8K-20040901114706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K/A AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 1, 2004 ----------------------------- REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-6159 63-0589368 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 417 North 20th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35203 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (205) 944-1300 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On July 1, 2004, Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") filed a current report on Form 8-K announcing that it had completed its merger with former Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation. In response to Items 7(a) and 7(b) of such report, Regions stated that it would file the financial information required by such items by amendment, as permitted by Item 7(a)(4) and Item 7(b)(2) of Form 8-K. This Amendment No. 1 to Form 8-K is being filed to provide the required financial information. ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (a) Financial statements of businesses acquired. Consolidated balance sheets of Union Planters Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and related consolidated statements of earnings, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the three year period ended December 31, 2003 are included in this report as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 9.01(a) (formerly Item 7(a)). Unaudited consolidated balance sheet of Union Planters Corporation and subsidiaries as of June 30, 2004 and related unaudited consolidated statements of earnings, and cash flows for the six month periods ended June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, and related unaudited consolidated statement of changes in shareholders' equity for the six month period ended June 30, 2004, are included as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 9.01(a) (formerly Item 7(a)). (b) Pro forma financial information. An unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated statement of financial condition as of June 30, 2004, and unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated statements of income for the six month period ended June 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003 are included as Exhibit 99.4 and incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 9.01(b) (formerly Item 7(b)). (c) Exhibits. The exhibits listed in the exhibit index are included as exhibits to this current report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: /s/ Ronald C. Jackson ------------------------------------- Ronald C. Jackson Senior Vice President and Comptroller Date: September 1, 2004
EXHIBIT INDEX 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 22, 2004, by and between Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation.* 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 99.1 Press Release dated July 1, 2004.* 99.2 Consolidated balance sheets of Union Planters Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and related consolidated statements of earnings, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the three year period ended December 31, 2003. 99.3 Unaudited consolidated balance sheet of Union Planters Corporation and subsidiaries as of June 30, 2004 and related unaudited consolidated statements of earnings and cash flows for the six month periods ended June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003 and related unaudited consolidated statement of changes in shareholders' equity for the six month period ended June 30, 2004. 99.4 Unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated statement of financial condition as of June 30, 2004, and unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated statements of income for the six month period ended June 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003. * Previously filed.

Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-117272) of Regions Financial Corporation of our report dated January 15, 2004, except as to the merger with Regions Financial Corporation described in Note 24 which is as of January 22, 2004, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Union Planters Corporation, which appears in this current report on Form 8-K/A. /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Memphis, Tennessee August 30, 2004

EXHIBIT 99.2 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Union Planters Corporation In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related consolidated statements of earnings, of changes in shareholders' equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Union Planters Corporation (Union Planters) and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2003 and 2002 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of Union Planters' management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2002, Union Planters changed its method of accounting for goodwill and other intangibles. As discussed in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 22, 2004, Union Planters entered into a merger agreement with Regions Financial Corporation. /s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP - -------------------------------------- PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Memphis, Tennessee January 15, 2004, except as to Note 24, which is as of January 22, 2004 1
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 3
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 4
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS See Notes 2 and 10, respectively, related to business combinations and conversions of preferred stock. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 5
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1. BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BUSINESS Union Planters Corporation (Union Planters or the Company) is a multi-state bank holding company headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. Union Planters operates three banking subsidiaries with 717 banking offices and 925 ATMs in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Tennessee and Texas. At December 31, 2003, Union Planters had consolidated total assets of $31.9 billion, placing it among the 30 largest bank holding companies based in the United States and the largest headquartered in Tennessee. Through its subsidiaries, Union Planters provides a diversified range of financial services in the communities in which it operates, including consumer, commercial and corporate lending; retail banking; and other ancillary financial services traditionally furnished by full-service financial institutions. Additional services offered include factoring operations; mortgage origination and servicing; investment management and trust services; the issuance of debit cards; the offering of credit cards; the origination, packaging and securitization of loans, primarily the government-guaranteed portion of Small Business Administration (SBA) loans; full-service and discount brokerage; the sale of annuities and bank-eligible insurance products; and professional employment organization services, including worker's compensation management, employee benefits management, payroll administration, safety and risk management, human resource administration and compliance administration. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES USE OF ESTIMATES. The accounting and reporting policies of Union Planters and its subsidiaries conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and general practices within the financial services industry. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Examples of estimates include the adequacy of the allowance for losses on loans, accruals for income taxes and estimates of fair value of financial instruments. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The following is a summary of the more significant accounting policies of Union Planters. PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Union Planters and all majority-owned subsidiaries after elimination of significant intercompany accounts and transactions. Companies in which Union Planters holds 20% or greater but less than 50% of the voting stock are accounted for using the equity method for investments. Companies in which Union Planters holds less than 20% of the voting stock are accounted for using the cost method for investments. Companies used by Union Planters to securitize mortgage loans meet the criteria for qualifying special purpose entities established by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, and are not consolidated. Companies used to securitize factored receivables, which were used until mid 2003, are not qualifying special purpose entities under SFAS No. 140 and are consolidated. Business combinations accounted for as purchases are included in the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition. Assets and liabilities of financial institutions accounted for as purchases are adjusted to their fair values as of their dates of acquisition. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2003 financial reporting presentation. During the second quarter of 2002, Union Planters completed a three-for-two stock split paid in the form of a stock dividend. All share and per share data amounts have been adjusted to reflect the split. In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51. The Company adopted FIN No. 46 on July 1, 2003 and as a result, deconsolidated Union Planters 6
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Capital Trust A (the UPC Trust). The sole assets of the UPC Trust are 8.20% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures of Union Planters Corporation (the Junior Subordinated Debentures). The UPC Trust's liabilities are primarily represented by 8.20% Trust Preferred Securities, which have previously been included in other long-term debt in the Union Planters Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under FIN No. 46, the Junior Subordinated Debentures, which are substantially equal in amount to the Trust Preferred Securities, cease to be eliminated in consolidation and are included in other long-term debt in the Union Planters Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2003. The adoption of FIN No. 46 increased the Consolidated Balance Sheet by $6.2 million, representing the difference between the Junior Subordinated Debentures and the Trust Preferred Securities. In the second quarter of 2003, Union Planters began netting amortization and impairment expense associated with mortgage servicing rights against mortgage banking revenues in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. This classification is more consistent with prevailing practice in the banking industry. All prior periods have been adjusted to conform with this presentation. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS. Cash and cash equivalents, which include cash, due from banks, securities purchased under agreements to resell and federal funds, aggregated $1,662 million, $1,130 million and $967 million at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Union Planters' banking subsidiaries are required to maintain noninterest-bearing reserve balances with the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB). The average balance required to be maintained for such purposes was $31 million during 2003 and $26 million during 2002. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company was also required to maintain reserve balances of $51 million and $82 million, respectively, related to other contractual obligations, the majority of which is held in deposit with the drawee for Union Planters' official checks. SECURITIES AND TRADING ACCOUNT ASSETS. Debt and equity securities that are bought and principally held for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities. These consist primarily of the government-guaranteed portion of SBA loans and SBA participation certificates. Gains and losses on sales and fair-value adjustments of trading securities are included in profits and commissions from trading activities. Debt securities that Union Planters has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity securities and carried at cost, adjusted for the amortization of premium and accretion of discount using the level-yield method. Generally, the held to maturity portfolios of acquired entities are reclassified to the available for sale portfolio upon acquisition. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, Union Planters had no securities classified as held to maturity. Debt and equity securities that Union Planters has not classified as held to maturity or trading are classified as available for sale securities. These are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, included in accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains or losses from sales of available for sale securities are computed using the specific identification method and are included in investment securities gains (losses) together with impairment losses considered other than temporary. LOANS HELD FOR RESALE. Loans held for resale primarily include mortgage loans originated for sale into the secondary market and are carried at the lower of cost or fair value on an aggregate basis unless the loans are part of a qualifying and effective hedging relationship. Substantially all of the Company's mortgage loans originated for sale into the secondary market are hedged with derivative financial instruments in a qualifying and effective hedging relationship. As a result, all such loans are carried at fair value. LOANS. Loans are carried at the principal amount outstanding. Interest income on loans is recognized using constant yield methods except for unearned income, which is recorded as income using a method that approximates the interest method. Loan origination fees and direct loan origination costs are deferred and recognized over the life of the related loans as adjustments to interest income. 7
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Certain of Union Planters' banking subsidiaries, principally Union Planters Bank, National Association (UPB), have granted loans to Union Planters' directors, executive officers and their affiliates. These loans are made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with unrelated persons and do not involve more than normal risks of collectability. The aggregate dollar amount of these loans at December 31, 2003 and 2002 represented less than 5% of total shareholders' equity. LOAN SALES. Through the sale and securitization of loans, Union Planters may retain one or more subordinated tranches, servicing rights and, in some cases, a cash reserve account, all of which are retained interests in the securitized loans. Gains or losses on the sale of the loans depends in part on the previous carrying amounts of the financial assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based on their relative fair values at the date of transfer. To obtain fair values, quoted market prices are used if available. If quotes are not available for the retained interests, Union Planters estimates fair value based on the present value of future expected cash flows calculated using management's best estimate of key assumptions -- expected credit losses, prepayment speeds, weighted average life and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. NONPERFORMING LOANS. Nonperforming loans consist of nonaccrual loans and restructured loans. Loans, other than consumer loans, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and interest and loan fees are not recorded if, in management's opinion, payment in full of principal or interest is not expected or when payment of principal or interest is contractually past due 90 days or more, unless the loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection. Single-family residential mortgage loans are placed on nonaccrual status if the loan is not in the process of collection or is not well secured. FHA/VA government-insured/guaranteed loans which are contractually past due 90 days or more are placed on nonaccrual status when interest claim reimbursements are likely to be denied due to missed filing dates in the foreclosure process. Consumer loans are automatically charged off when they become contractually past due 120 days. In the interim, consumer loans are placed on nonaccrual status upon the occurrence of certain events, such as bankruptcy. Other loans are generally charged off in the period in which an event occurs that confirms the existence of a loss. Cash receipts on nonaccrual loans are first applied as a reduction of principal until all outstanding principal has been collected. Any further cash receipts are then applied against uncollected interest. ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON LOANS. The allowance for losses on loans represents management's best estimate of losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. The allowance for losses on loans is increased by the provision for losses on loans charged to expense and reduced by loans charged off, net of recoveries. The provision for losses on loans is determined based on management's assessment of several factors: reviews and evaluations of specific loans, changes in the nature and volume of the loan portfolio, current and anticipated economic conditions and the related impact on specific borrowers and industry groups, historical loan loss experience, the level of classified and nonperforming loans and the results of regulatory examinations. Loans are considered impaired if, based on current information and events, it is probable that Union Planters will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. The measurement of impaired loans is generally based on the fair value of the collateral for collateral dependent loans. If the loan is not collateral dependent, the measurement of impairment is based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the historical effective interest rate or the observable market price of the loan. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT. Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line method and is charged to operating expense over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Depreciation expense is computed principally using 8
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) estimated lives of five to forty years for premises and two to ten years for furniture and equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of the initial term of the respective lease or the estimated useful life of the improvement. Costs of major additions and improvements are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS. Prior to June 2001, the unamortized costs in excess of the fair value of acquired net tangible assets were included in goodwill and other intangibles. For acquisitions where the fair value of net assets acquired exceeded the purchase price, the resulting negative goodwill was allocated proportionally to noncurrent, nonmonetary assets. Any excess remaining after these assets were reduced to zero was recorded as a deferred credit and amortized into income over the period of benefit. Subsequent to June 2001 when SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, became effective, intangible assets arising from a business combination are recognized as assets apart from goodwill if they meet either the contractual -- legal criterion or the separability criterion. Any excess fair value of net assets acquired exceeding the purchase price remaining after noncurrent, nonmonetary assets are reduced to zero is recorded as an extraordinary gain. Disclosures concerning the primary reasons for business combinations, the allocation of the purchase price paid to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by major balance sheet caption, and additional information concerning goodwill and other intangibles are made as required. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES. Prior to December 31, 2001, the unamortized costs in excess of the fair value of acquired net tangible assets were included in goodwill and other intangibles. All intangible assets were amortized over the estimated period benefited, which ranged up to 25 years for goodwill and up to 15 years for premiums on purchased deposits. Goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method, while premiums on purchased deposits were amortized using a method that approximated the pattern of the expected runoff of the related deposits. On January 1, 2002, Union Planters adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. This standard superceded Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 17, Intangible Assets, and changed how intangible assets that are acquired individually or with a group of other assets (but not those acquired in a business combination) should be accounted for in the financial statements upon their acquisition. Specifically, SFAS No. 142: - - Adopts a view of goodwill that bases the accounting for goodwill on the reporting units of the combined entity into which the acquired entity is integrated. - - Requires goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite lives to be tested at least annually for impairment rather than being amortized. Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives, but without the constraint of an arbitrary ceiling. - - Provides specific guidance for testing goodwill for impairment. - - Provides specific guidance on testing intangible assets that will not be amortized for impairment and thus removes those assets from the scope of other impairment guidance. - - Requires disclosure about changes in the carrying amount of goodwill from period to period (in the aggregate and by reportable segment), the carrying amount of intangible assets by major intangible asset class for those subject to amortization and for those not subject to amortization, and the estimated asset amortization for the next five years. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, Union Planters assessed both its goodwill and other intangible assets and determined that there was no impairment. Consequently, other intangible assets continued to be amortized in accordance with their previously established lives. 9
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) As required under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is assessed for impairment at a reporting unit level at least annually using the present value of discounted cash flows. The calculation of cash flows for each reporting unit begins with an estimation for several trend scenarios in net earnings, taking into account anticipated effective tax rates, over the next 10 years, including historical, forecasted, high performance, low performance and worst-case trends. A terminal value, based on a five-year average historical earnings multiple, is added to each scenario at the end of 10 years to determine total cash flows. A discount factor, approximating the cost of capital, is then applied to each cash flow scenario to determine the present value. The present value of each scenario is then weighted based on the probability of occurrence as assessed by management. The resulting weighted average present value is compared to the recorded equity of each reporting unit. As long as the weighted average present value is greater, there is no impairment to goodwill. Union Planters performed its annual test for impairment during 2003 and 2002 and determined that there was no impairment. Intangible assets acquired through the purchase of branches were excluded from the scope of SFAS No. 142 resulting in the continued amortization of certain unidentified intangibles included in goodwill. In October 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 147, Acquisitions of Certain Financial Institutions, which amends the accounting for acquisitions of branches qualifying as a business. Such acquisitions are now accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 142. During the fourth quarter of 2002, Union Planters adopted this standard and, as required, reversed approximately $6.8 million of pre-tax amortization expense incurred during the first nine months of 2002. The pro-forma impact on diluted earnings per share for 2001 would have been an increase of $.19 had the standard been applied retroactively. See Note 7, "Intangible Assets," for further discussion. MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS. Mortgage servicing rights are stratified based on guarantor, origination period and interest rate. The servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or fair value by strata. The servicing rights capitalized are amortized in proportion to and over the period of estimated servicing income. Management evaluates the recoverability of the servicing rights in relation to the impact of actual and anticipated loan portfolio prepayment, foreclosure and delinquency experience. Union Planters periodically evaluates its servicing rights to determine if the carrying value, before the application of the valuation allowance, is probable of recovery. If it is determined that a portion of the asset is not recoverable, the asset and the previously designated valuation allowance are written down. OTHER REAL ESTATE. Properties acquired through foreclosure and unused bank premises are initially recorded at fair value, reduced by estimated selling costs. The fair values of other real estate are typically determined based on appraisals by independent third parties. The fair value of individual properties is determined by applying one or more of the three common valuation approaches (comparable sales, cost or income/discounted cash flows) appropriate in the circumstances. Factors such as interest rates and general economic conditions affect appraised values. Write-downs of the related loans at or prior to the date of foreclosure are charged to the allowance for losses on loans. Subsequent write downs, income and expense incurred in connection with holding such assets, and gains and losses realized from the sales of such assets, are included in noninterest income and expense. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, net other real estate was $49.8 million and $78.3 million, respectively. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION. Union Planters has elected not to adopt the recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, which requires a fair-value-based method of accounting for stock options and similar equity awards. As permitted under SFAS No. 123, Union Planters continues to apply APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations in accounting for its stock compensation plans and, accordingly, does not recognize compensation cost, except for stock grants. Had compensation cost for Union Planters' stock option plans been consistently expensed based upon the fair value at the grant date for awards under the methodology prescribed under SFAS No. 123, Union Planters' net income and earnings per share would have been 10
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) reduced as shown in the table below. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively: expected dividend yield of 4.09%, 5.11% and 5.15%; expected volatility of 27.32%, 29.62% and 29.75%; risk-free interest rate of 3.00%, 2.56% and 3.67%; and an expected life of 3.8 years, 3.9 years and 5.1 years. Forfeitures are recognized as they occur. This schedule excludes the earnings impact of options acquired and accelerated through acquisitions. - --------------- (1) For the purpose of calculating basic earnings per share, net earnings is adjusted by the dividend on preferred stock, which was $785,000 in 2003, $1.0 million in 2002 and $1.4 million in 2001. INCOME TAXES. Union Planters files a consolidated federal income tax return, which includes all of its subsidiaries except for a credit life insurance company, certain corporations which have elected status as Real Estate Investment Trusts that are required to file separate income tax returns and certain pass through entities. Income tax expense is allocated between the parent company and its subsidiaries as if each had filed a separate return. The provision for income taxes is comprised of taxes that are currently payable and deferred taxes that relate to temporary differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities that will result in deductible or taxable amounts in future years when such assets and liabilities are recovered or settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be realized or settled. Recognition of certain deferred tax assets is based upon management's belief that, based upon historical earnings and anticipated future earnings, normal operations will continue to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize these benefits. When, in the opinion of management, it is "more likely than not" that the asset will be realized, no valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, Union Planters records all derivatives in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income depending upon the purpose for using the derivative and/or its qualification, designation and effectiveness as a hedging transaction. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -- Business Perspective. Union Planters has developed risk management programs and processes designed to manage market risk associated with the Company's business activities. Interest rate risk is a predominant risk that further influences a number of other 11
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) business risks such as pricing risk, prepayment risk, valuation risk, balance sheet management and funding risk. As part of its risk management program, the Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risks associated with its balance sheet activities. At year-end, the derivative financial instrument positions were fair value hedges of loans held for resale, deposits and debt, cash flow hedges of loans held for investment purposes and other freestanding derivative financial instruments. Loan production activities include the origination or acquisition of mortgage loans, the warehousing of those loans in inventory and the resale of those loans to investors in the secondary market. The Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to protect and manage interest rate risk and pricing risk associated with its loans held for resale and its mortgage pipeline. The derivative financial instruments associated with loans held for resale are accounted for as fair value hedges in accordance with applicable accounting literature. Union Planters also enters into various derivative financial instruments to offset changes in the value of its mortgage servicing rights in addition to the mortgage pipeline, which also is defined to be a derivative under SFAS No. 133 and therefore marked-to-market through earnings. The fair value of derivative financial instruments associated with loans held for resale, the mortgage pipeline and mortgage servicing rights are included in other assets or other liabilities. IMPAIRMENT OR DISPOSAL OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which supersedes SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of, and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations -- Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions, for the disposal of a business and amends Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant changes in accounting include: - - Establishment of a single accounting model for long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale. - - Goodwill is no longer included in the scope of this guidance. - - Long-lived assets to be abandoned are now required to have depreciable lives that are in accordance with APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes. - - Long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale are required to be measured at the lower of book value or the fair value less the cost to sell. - - Losses related to discontinued operations are no longer reported until they have been incurred. Union Planters adopted this standard on January 1, 2002. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Previous guidance required expenses for exit or disposal activities to be accrued when the exit or disposal plan was approved by management and the liability was probable and quantifiable regardless of when the expense would be incurred. This standard requires that liabilities or costs associated with such activities be recognized when incurred. This standard also requires that any such liability be recognized initially at fair value. Union Planters adopted this Standard on January 1, 2003. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. GUARANTEES. In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN No. 45, Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, An Interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and Rescission of FASB interpretation No. 34. FIN No. 45 requires that upon issuance of certain guarantees, the guarantor must recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation assumed under the guarantee. Fair value at the issuance of the guarantee includes the premium 12
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) received by the guarantor or, if the guarantee is part of a transaction with multiple elements, the amount that would be required by the guarantor to issue the same guarantee in a stand-alone, arms length transaction. In addition to recording the fair value of the guarantee, the guarantor must disclose certain information regarding the nature of guarantees made including: - - The approximate term - - How the guarantee arose - - Events or circumstances that would require the guarantor to perform under the guarantee - - The maximum potential amount of future payments that could be required - - The current carrying amount of the liability - - The nature of any recourse provisions or collateral held, which the guarantor can use to recover any portion of amounts paid under the guarantee Union Planters adopted this Standard on December 31, 2002. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS. In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This standard amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and became effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. Union Planters adopted this standard on July 1, 2003. The adoption did not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH CHARACTERISTICS OF BOTH LIABILITIES AND EQUITY. In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity. This standard establishes how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It requires that an issuer classify certain financial instruments, including some previously classified as equity, as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). These include: - - A financial instrument in the form of shares that is mandatorily redeemable. - - A financial instrument, other than an outstanding share, that, at inception, embodies an obligation to repurchase the issuer's equity shares, or is indexed to such an obligation, and that requires or may require the issuer to settle the obligation by transferring assets. - - A financial instrument that embodies an unconditional obligation, or a financial instrument other than an outstanding share that embodies a conditional obligation, that the issuer must or may settle by issuing a variable number of its equity shares, if, at inception, the monetary value of the obligation is based solely or predominantly on any of the following: a. A fixed monetary amount known at inception, for example, a payable which may be settled with a variable number of the issuer's equity shares; b. Variations in something other than the fair value of the issuer's equity shares, for example, a financial instrument indexed to the S&P 500 and settleable with a variable number of the issuer's equity shares; and 13
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) c. Variations inversely related to changes in the fair value of the issuer's equity shares, for example, a written put option that could be net share settled. This standard became effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise, in the case of Union Planters, on July 1, 2003. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES. As discussed above, as of July 1, 2003, Union Planters deconsolidated the UPC Trust, whose liabilities are primarily represented by 8.20% Trust Preferred Securities. The Trust Preferred Securities presently qualify as Tier 1 regulatory capital and are reported in Federal Reserve regulatory reports as a minority interest in a consolidated subsidiary. The Junior Subordinated Debentures do not qualify as Tier 1 regulatory capital. The Federal Reserve Board has reached no final conclusion on the continued qualification of Trust Preferred Securities but has indicated that until further notice, Trust Preferred Securities will continue to count as Tier 1 regulatory capital. Should the Federal Reserve Board reach a conclusion that Trust Preferred Securities no longer included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet would cease to qualify as Tier 1 regulatory capital, Union Planters' Tier 1 regulatory capital would be reduced by approximately $200 million. PURCHASED LOANS. In December 2003, Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position (SOP) 03-3, Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer. The SOP is effective for loans acquired in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2004, with earlier application encouraged. A certain transition provision applies for certain aspects of loans currently within the scope of Practice Bulletin 6, Amortization of Discounts on Certain Acquired Loans. The SOP addresses accounting for differences between contractual cash flows and cash flows expected to be collected from an investor's initial investment in loans or debt securities (loans) acquired in a transfer if those differences are attributable, at least in part, to credit quality. Loans acquired in business combinations are included in the scope of the SOP. The SOP does not apply to loans originated by the entity. Union Planters has not yet adopted the provisions of the SOP and does not expect them to have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ACCOUNTING FOR RETIREE WELFARE PROGRAMS. On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act expands Medicare, primarily by adding a prescription drug benefit starting in 2006. The Act provides employers with a range of options for coordinating their existing programs with the new government sponsored program. These options include supplementing the government program on a secondary payer basis or accepting a direct subsidy from the government to support a portion of the cost of the employer's program. This will likely reduce the employer cost of providing prescription drug benefits for Medicare-eligible retirees. The retiree health obligations and costs reported in these financial statements do not reflect any potential impact of the Act. Specific, authoritative guidance on the accounting for the government subsidy is pending, and that guidance, when issued, could require the Company to change previously reported information. As a result of possible amendments to the Company's retiree health program, the Company's retiree healthcare obligations and costs may be reduced. INTEREST RATE LOCK COMMITMENTS. In early October 2003, the FASB added a limited scope project, the objective of which is to clarify SFAS No. 133 (as amended) with respect to determining the fair value of loan commitments (including interest rate lock commitments). Specifically, the project will address two issues: 1) what information an entity should use to determine the fair value of a loan commitment that is accounted for as a derivative under SFAS No. 133 and 2) whether a loan commitment should ever be reported as an asset by the issuer of that commitment. The Board is currently in the process of conducting research and preparing a proposed scope and timetable for the project. In the first quarter of 2004, the 14
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) FASB will discuss what urgency is appropriate for this project in view of the expected significant reduction in the current diversity in practice in the near future. If the FASB issues a final EITF consensus determining that mortgage loan commitments are written options that may only be reported as liabilities, not as assets, there would be a significant impact on the accounting for Union Planters' mortgage pipeline. Presently, both the pipeline and derivative financial instruments utilized to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with the pipeline are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value included in current earnings. Movements in the fair values of the pipeline and the derivative financial instruments tend to move in opposite directions. Under this scenario, a decline in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments may not be fully offset by an increase in the fair value of the pipeline, resulting in a net charge to earnings. Additionally, the SEC recently issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 105. SAB No. 105 clarifies the SEC's position that the inclusion of cash flows from servicing or ancillary income in the determination of the fair value of interest rate lock commitments is not appropriate. Union Planters has not yet determined the impact on the consolidated financial statements of SAB No. 105, which must be implemented for loan commitments entered into on or after April 1, 2004. NOTE 2. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DIVESTITURES During the three-year period ended December 31, 2003, Union Planters consummated the following business combination, which was accounted for as a purchase: Because the above purchase acquisition is insignificant to the consolidated results of Union Planters, pro-forma information has been omitted. On December 31, 2003, Union Planters completed the sale to an unrelated third party of its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Magna Insurance, Inc. (Magna Insurance), for $19.4 million in cash. The transaction gave rise to a loss on the sale of $.4 million. As of the date of the sale, Magna Insurance had assets of $29.1 million and shareholder's equity of $19.8 million. Its revenues and expenses were not material to any period presented. 15
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 3. AVAILABLE FOR SALE SECURITIES The following is a summary of Union Planters' investment securities, all of which were classified as available for sale: 16
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The following table shows gross unrealized losses and fair value, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at December 31, 2003: The following table presents the gross realized gains and losses on available for sale investment securities for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: Investment securities having a fair value of approximately $1.9 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, were pledged to secure public and trust funds on deposit, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances. Included within available for sale securities is $285.2 million and $273.6 million of FHLB and FRB stock at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, for which there is no readily determinable market value. 17
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The fair values, contractual maturities and weighted average yields of available for sale investment securities as of December 31, 2003 are as follows: The weighted average yields are calculated by dividing the sum of the individual security yield weights (effective yield times book value) by the total book value of the securities. The weighted average yield for obligations of states and political subdivisions is adjusted to a taxable-equivalent yield using a federal income tax rate of 35%. Expected maturities of securities differ from contractual maturities because some borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. As of December 31, 2003, the investment securities portfolio is expected to have a principal weighted average life of approximately 5.46 years. RETAINED INTEREST IN LOANS SOLD. In securitization transactions, Union Planters typically retains certain rights to future cash flows arising after the investors in the securitization trust have received the return for which they contracted. The investors in a securitization trust have no recourse to Union Planters' other assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. Union Planters' retained interests are subordinate to investors' interests, and their value is subject to credit, prepayment and interest rate risks on the transferred financial assets. Union Planters retains similar rights on certain whole loans sold. While no loans were sold or securitized under this type of agreement in 2002, during 2003, the Company securitized $323.8 million of residential mortgages and retained an interest in residual cash flows. Pretax gains of $15.3 million were recognized on the 2003 transactions. 18
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Key economic assumptions used in measuring the retained interests in loans at the date of the 2003 securitization or sale were as follows: At December 31, 2003, key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair value of residual cash flows to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions are as follows: The impact on the retained interests related to residential mortgage loans from a hypothetical 10% and 20% adverse changes in credit losses was a decrease in the fair value of $350,000 and $750,000, respectively. The effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the retained interest is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another (for example, increases in market interest rates may result in lower prepayments and increased credit losses), which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with caution. Changes in fair value based on a change in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Cash flows between the qualified special purpose entities utilized in securitization transactions and Union Planters are immaterial. During 2003 and 2002, Union Planters recorded impairment of $.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively, related to interest only strips arising from the sales and securitizations of mortgage loans, which had an other than temporary decline in value due to increased prepayment speeds on the underlying mortgages. The impairment is included in realized losses. 19
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 4. ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON LOANS AND NONPERFORMING LOANS The changes in the allowance for losses on loans are summarized as follows: The Company's investment in impaired loans and the associated valuation reserve at December 31, is summarized as follows: Average impaired loans, net of valuation reserves, were $224.0 million in 2003, $211.4 million in 2002 and $161.8 million in 2001. Cash basis interest income recognized on those loans during each of the years was immaterial. Nonperforming loans are summarized as follows: At December 31, 2003 and 2002, Union Planters had $525,000 and $1.5 million, respectively, of FHA/VA government-insured/guaranteed loans on nonaccrual status, which have been included in the table above. Due to the fact that these loans are government-insured/guaranteed, Union Planters does not expect any loss of principal. The loans were placed on nonaccrual status because the contractual payment of interest by FHA/VA had stopped. The impact on interest income of nonperforming loans was not material for the three years ended December 31, 2003. Also, there were no significant outstanding commitments, under the related loan agreements, to lend additional funds to borrowers whose loans were classified as nonperforming at December 31, 2003 or 2002. 20
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 5. MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS AND MORTGAGE BANKING REVENUE Union Planters typically retains servicing on residential mortgage loans that are securitized or sold into the secondary market and receives annual servicing fees equal to a percentage of the outstanding balance, currently ranging from ..25% to .617%. The amount of servicing fees received from qualifying special purpose entities related to securitizations was immaterial for all years presented. At December 31, 2003, Union Planters was acting as servicing agent on behalf of others for approximately $24.7 billion of these loans, compared to $20.0 billion at December 31, 2002 and $16.2 billion at December 31, 2001. The principal balance of loans serviced for others are not included in Union Planters' Consolidated Balance Sheet. The following table presents a reconciliation of the changes in mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003: During 2003, Union Planters recorded a permanent impairment of MSRs of $49.2 million, which reduced both the gross carrying value and associated valuation allowance of the MSR. This write-down had no impact on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the current year but will result in a reduction of MSR amortization expense in future periods. The fair value of MSRs at December 31, 2003 was $352.8 million. Significant assumptions utilized in determining the fair value were as follows:
Estimated portfolio prepayment speeds....................... 12.41% -- 37.27% CPR Market discount rates....................................... 9.00% -- 12.00% Weighted average discount rate.............................. 9.39%
The significant assumptions above directly relate to and move in concert with mortgage interest rates. In the view of management, in order to understand the hypothetical effect on the fair value of the mortgage servicing rights as a result of unfavorable variations in the significant assumptions, it is necessary to measure the effect that would result from a decline in mortgage interest rates. At December 31, 2003, the reduction in the current fair value of MSRs resulting from an immediate 50 and 100 basis point decline in mortgage interest rates would be approximately $37.0 million and $90.1 million, respectively. The actual decline in fair value related to decreased mortgage interest rates could differ significantly from this 21
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) estimate due to the propensity of borrowers to refinance in light of the remaining life and unpaid principal balance of their existing mortgage loan and the costs related to refinancing. Please refer to Note 1 for the predominant risk characteristics in the underlying loans that are used to stratify the mortgage servicing rights for purposes of measuring impairment. As a result of the implementation of a new modeling tool used in estimating the fair value of MSRs, in July 2002, the Company refined certain estimates, principally prepayment speed estimates, used in each market which project cash flows from serviced mortgage loans and the fair value of MSRs. These changes in estimates resulted in the recovery of $11.9 million in previously recorded impairment in MSRs and thus an increase in earnings after taxes of $8.3 million, or $.04 per diluted share for third quarter and the full year. As a result of these changes, the MSRs for the two strata of mortgage loans having an impairment of $11.9 million at June 30, 2002 had an estimated fair value of $42.1 million more than their recorded value. Immediately prior to the change in estimates, the significant assumptions utilized in determining the fair value of MSRs were as follows:
Estimated portfolio prepayment speeds....................... 12.90% -- 37.31% CPR Market discount rates....................................... 9.06% -- 12.22%
Upon the change in estimate, the significant assumptions were changed to the following:
Estimated portfolio prepayment speeds....................... 7.03% -- 23.71% CPR Market discount rates....................................... 9.06% -- 12.22%
In its capacity as servicer of certain of these loans, Union Planters is responsible for foreclosure and the related costs of foreclosure. These costs are estimated each period based on historical loss experience and are shown as provisions for losses on FHA/VA foreclosure claims in noninterest expense. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, Union Planters had reserves for these losses of $1.4 million and $2.1 million, respectively. In the normal course of business, Union Planters sells mortgage loans and makes certain limited representations and warranties to the purchaser. Management does not expect any significant losses to arise from these representations and warranties. Mortgage banking revenues for the three-year period ended December 31, 2003 are summarized as follows: 22
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 6. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT Premises and equipment are summarized as follows: For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, depreciation and amortization expense was $67.2 million, $66.2 million and $77.0 million, respectively. At December 31, 2003, future minimum lease payments under noncancelable leases were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, rental expense for all operating leases amounted to $36.7 million, $34.4 million and $32.6 million, respectively. NOTE 7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer subject to amortization but is assessed at least annually for impairment. The carrying value of goodwill not subject to amortization was $743.2 million at both December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002. At each of these dates, $70.5 million of the goodwill was in the "other operating units" line of business, with the remainder in the "banking" line of business. During the third quarter of 2003 and 2002, Union Planters finalized its annual evaluation of goodwill for impairment using a discounted cash flow method. The evaluations indicated no impairment. 23
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Pro-forma results are presented below representing the results for the year ended December 31, 2001, had there been no amortization of goodwill resulting from business combinations in that year (dollars in thousands, except per share data): Union Planters' other intangible assets are core deposit intangibles acquired through bank acquisitions and other unidentified intangibles arising from branch purchases and are subject to amortization periods up to 15 years with no residual value. The gross amount of other intangible assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $316.3 million, with accumulated amortization of $148.4 million and $127.6 million at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. All other intangibles are in the "banking" line of business. The weighted average amortization period at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 is 165.3 months. Amortization expense over the next five years on current other intangibles is expected to be (dollars in thousands):
2004........................................................ $21,970 2005........................................................ 21,862 2006........................................................ 21,681 2007........................................................ 19,629 2008........................................................ 17,477
NOTE 8. INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS The following table presents the maturities of interest-bearing deposits at December 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands):
2004........................................................ $ 4,554,962 2005........................................................ 1,171,074 2006........................................................ 563,644 2007........................................................ 537,815 2008........................................................ 312,432 Thereafter.................................................. 18,872 ----------- Total time deposits......................................... 7,158,799 Interest-bearing deposits with no stated maturity........... 10,603,050 ----------- Total interest-bearing deposits............................. $17,761,849 ===========
NOTE 9. BORROWINGS During 2003, Union Planters filed a shelf registration establishing a $1.5 billion senior and subordinated bank program. Under this program, Union Planters may issue senior bank notes with maturities ranging from 30 days to one year from their respective issue dates (Short-term senior notes), senior bank notes with maturities more than one to 30 years from their respective issue dates (medium- or long-term senior 24
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) notes), and subordinated bank notes with maturities from 5 to 30 years from their respective issue dates (medium-or long-term subordinated notes). During 2003, UPC issued $500.0 million in 4.375% fixed rate long-term Subordinated Notes. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS. Short-term borrowings include short-term FHLB advances, federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other short-term borrowings having original maturities of one year or less. Short-term FHLB advances are borrowings from the FHLB, which are secured by mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans. Federal funds purchased arise primarily from Union Planters' market activity with its correspondent banks and generally mature in one business day. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are secured by U.S. Government and agency securities. Short-term borrowings are summarized as follows: SHORT- AND MEDIUM-TERM NOTES. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, there were $600.0 million, 5.125% fixed rate Medium-term Subordinated Notes outstanding that mature in 2007. LONG-TERM FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ADVANCES. Certain of Union Planters' banking subsidiaries have advances from the FHLB under Blanket Agreements for Advances and Security Agreements (the Agreements). These advances have an original maturity of greater than one year. The Agreements enable these subsidiaries to borrow funds from the FHLB to fund mortgage loan programs and to satisfy certain other funding needs. The value of the mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans pledged under the 25
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Agreements must be maintained at not less than 125% and 135%, respectively, of the outstanding advances. At December 31, 2003, Union Planters' subsidiaries had an adequate amount of mortgage-backed securities and loans to satisfy the collateral requirements. A summary of the advances is as follows: The principal maturities of FHLB advances at December 31, 2003 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
2004........................................................ $111,251 2005........................................................ 1,180 2006........................................................ 1,181 2007........................................................ 1,181 2008........................................................ 21,130 Thereafter.................................................. 292,980 -------- Total..................................................... $428,903 ========
OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT. Union Planters' other long-term debt is summarized as follows: During 2003, FASB issued FIN No. 46 causing the deconsolidation of the UPC Trust and the 8.20% trust preferred securities that it has outstanding. Union Planters has issued to the UPC Trust 8.20% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures. Union Planters has the right, at any time, subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest to UPC Trust. Upon electing to defer such interest payments, Union Planters will be prohibited from paying dividends on its common and preferred stock and interest on certain outstanding borrowings. The subordinated notes are redeemable by Union Planters at a call price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, in whole or in part and from time-to-time on or after December 15, 2006, subject to certain conditions. In certain limited circumstances, primarily related to certain tax events, the Junior Subordinated Debt is redeemable at par, plus accrued interest to date of redemption. 26
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The 6.50% Putable/Callable Subordinated Notes are subject to mandatory repurchase from the holders on March 15, 2008, either through the exercise of a call option or automatic exercise of a put option. The notes may be purchased on that date by exercise of the call option by the call holder, in which case the call holder would obtain the notes at 100% of the principal amount, and the interest rate payable on the notes would be reset. In the event the call holder does not exercise the call option or for any reason fails to pay the call price, UPB will be required to repurchase the principal amount of the notes on that date under automatic exercise of the put option. The 4.375% Subordinated Notes were issued in November 2003 for $500.0 million at 99.66% and mature in December 2010. The principal maturities of other long-term debt are as follows (dollars in thousands):
2004........................................................ $ 24 2005........................................................ 99,917 2006........................................................ 26 2007........................................................ 27 2008........................................................ 27 Thereafter.................................................. 1,498,384 ---------- Total..................................................... $1,598,405 ==========
The ability of Union Planters to service its long-term debt obligations is dependent upon the future profitability of its banking subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to Union Planters. See Note 13, "Regulatory Capital and Restrictions on Dividends and Loans from Subsidiaries." NOTE 10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY COMMON STOCK. During the second quarter of 2002, the Union Planters Board of Directors (Board) declared a three-for-two stock split, in the form of a 50% stock dividend, on the shares of Union Planters common stock. The additional shares were paid on June 6, 2002 to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 22, 2002. As a result of the stock split, 67.6 million shares were issued, and cash in the amount of $.3 million was paid in lieu of fractional shares. All share and per share information has been adjusted for the impact of the split. Union Planters has been authorized by its Board to repurchase shares of its common stock from time-to-time, and currently has remaining authorization from the Board to repurchase approximately 24.7 million shares of the Company's common stock. In addition, in connection with settling an accelerated share repurchase program in October 2003, the counterparty to that program is expected to purchase approximately 1.5 million shares of Company common stock under the Company's concurrence. DIVIDENDS. The payment of dividends is determined by the Board taking into account the earnings, capital levels, cash requirements and the financial condition of Union Planters and its subsidiaries, applicable government regulations and policies and other factors deemed relevant by the Board, including the amount of dividends payable to Union Planters by its subsidiaries. Various federal laws, regulations and policies limit the ability of Union Planters' subsidiary banks to pay dividends. See Note 13, "Regulatory Capital and Restrictions on Dividends and Loans from Subsidiaries." 27
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) PREFERRED STOCK. Union Planters' preferred stock is summarized as follows: Series E Preferred Stock. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, 384,119 and 407,770 shares, respectively, of Union Planters' 8% Cumulative, Convertible, Preferred Stock, Series E (Series E Preferred Stock) were issued and outstanding. Such shares have a stated value of $25 per share on which dividends accrue at the rate of 8% per annum. Dividends are cumulative and are payable quarterly. The Series E Preferred Stock is not subject to any sinking fund provisions and has no preemptive rights. Such shares have a liquidation preference of $25 per share plus unpaid dividends accrued thereon, and with the prior approval of the Federal Reserve, may be redeemed by Union Planters, in whole or in part, at $25 per share. At any time prior to redemption, each share of Series E Preferred Stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into 1.875 shares of Union Planters' common stock. Holders of Series E Preferred Stock have no voting rights except for those provided by law and in certain other limited circumstances. Series F Preferred Stock (Shareholder Rights Plan). The Board adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan (Rights Plan), which became effective upon the expiration of the former Shareholder Rights Plan on January 19, 1999. Under the Rights Plan, each share of common stock received a tax-free dividend of one Preferred Share Purchase Right (Right). The Rights are not exercisable unless a third party acquires 15% of the common stock or an offer is initiated for 15% or more of the common stock. At that time, the Rights can be exercised to purchase units of Union Planters' Series F Preferred Stock. Each unit has the same voting and dividend rights as 1.5 shares of common stock, and each Right entitles the holder to purchase one unit at a 50% discount from the then market value of 1.5 shares of common stock. If a third party merges with or otherwise acquires Union Planters, each Right can be exercised to purchase 1.5 shares of common stock of the acquiring company at a 50% discount from the then market value of that stock. Rights held by the potential acquiring company cannot be exercised. The Board may extend the time period before the Rights become exercisable or redeem the Rights at $.01 per Right. These provisions give the Board the flexibility to negotiate a transaction with a potential acquiring company in the best interests of the shareholders. The Rights Plan will expire on January 19, 2009. Union Planters authorized 300,000 shares of Series F Preferred Stock for issuance under the Rights Plan, none of which has been issued. DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT AND STOCK PURCHASE PLAN. The Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the DRiP) authorizes the issuance of 6,000,000 shares (5,344,590 issued through December 31, 2003) of common stock to shareholders who choose to invest all or a portion of their cash dividends or make optional cash purchases. On certain investment dates, shares may be purchased with reinvested dividends and optional cash payments without brokerage commissions. Shares issued under the DRiP totaled 655,410, 571,874 and 511,292 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. NOTE 11. PREFERRED STOCK OF SUBSIDIARY During 2003, Union Planters Preferred Funding Corporation (UPPFC), an indirect majority-owned, consolidated subsidiary of Union Planters, issued 1,000 shares of 7.75% non-cumulative, perpetual 28
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) preferred stock, Series B (Series B Preferred Shares), with a liquidation value of $100,000 per share to another indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Union Planters, U.P. REIT Holdings, Inc. (UP REIT Holdings). UPPFC is a real-estate investment trust (REIT) established for the purpose of acquiring, holding and managing real estate mortgage assets. All of the Series B Preferred Shares were subsequently sold privately to non-affiliates without registration. These securities qualify as Tier I capital and are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in other liabilities. Dividends on the Series B Preferred Shares are payable quarterly and are included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in other noninterest expense. The Series B Preferred Shares are redeemable on or after July 15, 2023 and redeemable at the discretion of UPPFC in the event that the Series B Preferred Shares cannot be accounted for as Tier 1 regulatory capital or there is more than an insubstantial risk that dividends paid with respect to the Series B Preferred Shares will not be fully tax deductible. The total amount of Series B Preferred Shares issued and outstanding on December 31, 2003, net of discount and issuance costs, was $89.2 million. Concurrent with the issuance of the Series B Preferred Shares, UPPFC also issued 3,736 shares of non-cumulative, perpetual preferred stock, Series C (Series C Preferred Shares), with a liquidation value of $100,000 per share to UP REIT Holdings. The holder of each of the Series C Preferred Shares is entitled to dividends, payable quarterly, at an annual rate of three month LIBOR plus 3% on the liquidation value. Additionally, the Series C Preferred Shares rank equal to the Series B Preferred Shares. At December 31, 2003, UP REIT Holdings continued to own all of the Series C Preferred Shares. So long as the Series C Preferred Shares are owned by Union Planters or a consolidated subsidiary, the shares and dividends paid thereon are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The Series B Preferred Shares and the Series C Preferred Shares are not convertible into any other securities of UPPFC, Union Planters or any of its subsidiaries. The Series B Preferred Shares are, however, automatically exchangeable at the direction of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) for preferred stock of UPB, having substantially the same terms as the Series B Preferred Shares in the event UPB becomes undercapitalized under the OCC's "prompt corrective actions" regulations, insolvent or, in the OCC's sole discretion, in danger of becoming undercapitalized. Should UPPFC not pay dividends on the Series B Preferred Shares or the Series C Preferred Shares, both UPPFC and UPB will be precluded from paying dividends on their common stock until dividends have been paid on the Series B Preferred Shares for four consecutive quarters. 29
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 12. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The following table presents a reconciliation of the net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale securities: NOTE 13. REGULATORY CAPITAL AND RESTRICTIONS ON DIVIDENDS AND LOANS FROM SUBSIDIARIES REGULATORY CAPITAL. Union Planters and its banking subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on Union Planters' or its banking subsidiaries' financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, Union Planters and its banking subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of Union Planters' and its banking subsidiaries' assets, liabilities and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Union Planters' and its banking subsidiaries' capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require Union Planters and its banking subsidiaries to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the table below for Union 30
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Planters and its significant subsidiary, UPB) of total and Tier 1 capital (as defined in the regulations) to risk-weighted assets (as defined) and Tier 1 capital (as defined) to average assets (as defined). As of December 31, 2003, management believes that Union Planters, UPB and Union Planters' other banking subsidiaries met all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject. At December 31, 2003, the most recent notification from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency categorized UPB as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. Additionally, Union Planters' other banking subsidiary was categorized as well capitalized, and Union Planters' capital levels and ratios would be considered well capitalized. There are no conditions or events since the latest notification that management believes have changed any of the institutions' categories. The capital and ratios of Union Planters and UPB are presented in the following table: RESTRICTIONS ON DIVIDENDS AND LOANS FROM SUBSIDIARIES. The amount of dividends that Union Planters' subsidiaries may pay is limited by applicable laws and regulations. For subsidiary national banks, prior regulatory approval is required if dividends to be declared in any year would exceed net earnings of the current year (as defined under the National Bank Act) plus retained net profits for the preceding two years. Applicable state laws and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) regulate the payment of dividends by state-chartered bank subsidiaries. The payment of dividends by savings and loan subsidiaries is subject to the regulations of the Office of Thrift Supervision. At January 1, 2004, its banking subsidiaries could have paid dividends to Union Planters aggregating approximately $109.2 million without prior regulatory approval. Future dividends will be dependent on the level of earnings and capital and liquidity considerations of the subsidiary financial institutions. 31
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Federal law limits the amount of credit that Union Planters' banking subsidiaries may extend to their nonbank affiliates, including Union Planters Corporation. Loans and other extensions of credit to a single nonbank affiliate may not exceed 10% nor may loans to all nonbank affiliates exceed 20% of an individual bank's capital plus its allowance for losses on loans. Such loans must be collateralized by assets having market values of 100% to 130% of the loan amount depending on the nature of the collateral. The law imposes no restrictions upon extensions of credit between FDIC-insured banks, which are at least 80%-owned subsidiaries of Union Planters. At December 31, 2003, Union Planters had no such loans outstanding. 32
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 14. NONINTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE The major components of other noninterest income and expense are summarized as follows: 33
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The components of financial services income reported on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings was as follows: NOTE 15. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 401(K) RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLAN. Union Planters' 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan (401(k) Plan) is available to employees having 90 days or more of service and who work in excess of 1,000 hours per year. Employees may voluntarily contribute 1 to 30 percent of their gross compensation on a pretax basis up to a maximum of $12,000 in 2003, and Union Planters makes a matching contribution of 100 percent of the amounts contributed by the employee (up to 6% of compensation) with 50% of the matching contribution in Union Planters common stock in the year of contribution. Participants may redirect the investment of the matching common stock contributions within one year of receipt. Prior to January 1, 2002, employees were required to have one year of service and work in excess of 1,000 hours per year to participate, and Union Planters matched between 50 and 100% of contributions by employees (up to 6% of compensation) depending on years of eligible service. As a result of the changes in the 401(k) Plan, Union Planters' contributions to the 401(k) Plan increased to $15.9 million for 2003 and $15.7 million for 2002 compared to $9.7 million for 2001. The Employee Stock Ownership Plan and Trust (ESOP) was a noncontributory plan that covered employees having one or more years of service and who worked in excess of 1,000 hours per year. Contributions to the ESOP, which were determined annually by the Board of Directors, totaled $7.5 million during 2001. On January 1, 2002 the ESOP was merged into the 401(k) Plan. Therefore, no contributions were made to this plan in 2003 or 2002. At December 31, 2001, the ESOP held 2.4 million shares, which were allocated to participants. STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS. Employees and directors of Union Planters and its subsidiaries are eligible to receive options or restricted grants under plans, which are discussed below. The Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Incentive Plan allows for a maximum of 30 million shares of Union Planters' common stock to be issued through the exercise of nonstatutory or incentive stock options and as restricted stock awards to employees and directors of Union Planters. The option strike price is typically the market value of Union Planters' shares at the date of grant but may be less than market value if the option is granted in lieu of payment of compensation. Options granted generally become exercisable immediately or in installments of 20% to 33% each year beginning one year from the date of grant and expire ten years after the date of grant. The 1998 Stock Incentive Plan for Officers and Employees allows for 11.5 million shares of Union Planters' common stock to be issued through the exercise of nonstatutory stock options to all officers (except executive officers) and employees of Union Planters and its subsidiaries who were employed on the date of grant. The option price is the market value of Union Planters' shares at the date of grant. Options granted become exercisable three years after the date of grant and expire ten years after the date of grant. 34
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Additional options assumed in connection with various acquisitions remain outstanding; however, no further options will be granted under such plans. Additional information with respect to the number of shares of Union Planters' common stock that is subject to stock options is as follows: Options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2003 are summarized as follows: There were 468,785 shares and 298,428 shares with weighted average fair values of $30.76 and $31.49 awarded in restricted stock grants during 2003 and 2002, respectively. None were issued during 2001. Restrictions on the grants generally lapse in annual increments over periods up to twelve years. The market value of the restricted stock grants is charged to expense as the restrictions lapse. Total amounts expensed for 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $3.5 million, $2.0 million and $1.6 million, respectively. The unamortized expense included in unearned compensation in shareholders' equity was $36.1 million and $20.1 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. RETIREE HEALTHCARE AND LIFE INSURANCE. Union Planters provides certain healthcare and life insurance benefits to retired employees who have completed 20 years of unbroken full-time service immediately prior to retirement and who have attained age 60 or more (the Postretirement Care Plan). Healthcare benefits are provided partially through an insurance company (for retirees age 65 and above) and partially through direct payment of claims. 35
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The Postretirement Care Plan's participating retirees share a portion of the cost of the postretirement plan. In addition to deductibles and co-payments, participant contributions are as follows: Estimated costs are based on the claims experience of the covered group. The following table reflects Union Planters' net periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2003, 2002 and 2001, which were determined assuming a discount rate of 6% for 2003, 6.5% for 2002 and 7.25% for 2001 and an expected return on Postretirement Care Plan assets of 5% for all years: 36
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The following table reflects the change in the benefit obligation and change in the fair value of Postretirement Care Plan assets: The assumed discount rate used to measure the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) was 6% for 2003 and 6.5% for 2002. The weighted average healthcare cost trend rate in 2003 was 12%, decreasing to 11% for 2003 and then gradually declining to an ultimate projected rate in 2010 of 5%. A one percent increase or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have changed the total of the 2003 service and interest cost components by $55,900 and ($52,100), respectively, and would have changed the APBO as of December 31, 2003 by $954,000 and ($888,000), respectively. The APBO has been measured as of December 31, 2003, and Union Planters estimates its contributions to the Postretirement Care Plan will be approximately $670,000 for the year ending December 31, 2004. Rate of Return Assumption. The assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets was 5% per annum through 2003. However, the assumption was revised down to 4% per annum for future years based on revised expectations about future economic conditions. This assumption represents the expected net annual rate of return on plan assets after taxes and investment related expenses. Union Planters' long-term rate of return assumption is based on three main factors: 1) asset allocations as defined by the investment policy statement, 2) proprietary asset modeling assumptions, and 3) proprietary modeling technology. The asset allocations used in modeling the long-term rate of return assumption are based on the stated target allocations. 37
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Union Planters employs a total return approach in determining the long-term rate of return for plan assets. Historical markets are studied for the analysis of the assumed rate of return. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before long-term capital market assumptions are determined. Investment Approach. Union Planters employs an investment approach that has the ability to utilize both taxable and non-taxable fixed income investments. The intent of this strategy is to manage plan expenses by outperforming plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolio consists entirely of U.S. fixed income securities. The allocation of plan assets between major asset categories is shown in the table below. The allocation is as of December 31 for each year. The assets held in cash equivalents are generally above target at year-end due to final employer contributions. NOTE 16. INCOME TAXES The components of income tax expense are as follows: 38
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised of the following: A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets was not required at December 31, 2003 or 2002. Management has determined that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets could be realized by carrybacks to federal taxable income in the federal carryback period or offset against deferred tax liabilities. A reconciliation of income tax expense computed at the applicable statutory income tax rate of 35% to actual income tax expense is presented below: Income tax expense applicable to securities transactions was $3.9 million for 2003, $8.5 million for 2002 and $3.5 million for 2001. 39
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 17. EARNINGS PER SHARE The following table sets forth the computation of basic net earnings per share and diluted net earnings per share: Excluded from the computation of diluted shares were options to purchase 3.4 million, 3.6 million and 5.2 million shares that were outstanding at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, because the exercise price of these options was greater than the average market price of the common shares, and therefore, the effect would be antidilutive. NOTE 18. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Union Planters uses derivative financial instruments to manage risk associated with certain assets and liabilities and provide customers with products that meet their business requirements. Union Planters has a policy for its use of derivative financial instruments, setting appropriate limits and oversights, which has been approved by the Board. The Asset/Liability Management Committee reviews the open derivative positions monthly and ensures compliance with established policies. Accounting for all derivatives is in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT POSITIONS FAIR VALUE HEDGES. To mitigate interest rate risk associated with certain deposits and debt, Union Planters has entered into interest rate swap agreements that qualify as fair value hedges. The swaps and the related debt are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at current fair value at the end of each period. The changes in fair value of both the hedged item and the swap along with the net interest income 40
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) or expense on the swap are netted against the interest expense related to the hedged item on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company is also exposed to credit and interest-rate risk related to its mortgage inventory from the time a loan is closed until completion of normal post-closing review and the subsequent sale of the loan, normally 60 to 90 days. To mitigate interest rate risk associated with mortgage activities, Union Planters enters into mandatory short-term forward contracts, which are contracts for delayed delivery of mortgages in which the Company agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Risks arise from the possible inability of the counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from market movements in securities values and interest rates. These derivative financial instruments are associated with closed loans pending review and sale in fair value hedging relationships to reduce interest rate risk exposure. The fair value adjustment to loans held for resale as a result of these hedging relationships was $6.8 million at December 31, 2003, compared to $46.3 million at December 31, 2002. The ineffective portion of all fair value hedges had an immaterial impact on interest expense during 2003, 2002 and 2001. During the first quarter of 2003, Union Planters discontinued the hedging relationship between an interest rate swap agreement and the associated deposits. As a result, the fair value adjustment of the original pool of deposits at the date the hedge was discontinued, $4.3 million, is being amortized as a reduction to interest expense over 47 months, which was the average remaining life of the pool. Subsequently, this interest rate swap agreement was redesignated as a fair value hedge against a different pool of deposits. Amortization related to this discontinued hedge and a similar hedge terminated during 2002 had an immaterial impact on interest expense for all periods affected. CASH FLOW HEDGES. Union Planters enters into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the variability of future cash flows associated with certain variable-rate loans. At December 31, 2003, an unrealized gain, net of taxes, of $1.7 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income for the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. The reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest income will occur as interest income is accrued on the underlying loans. Net gains of $2.8 million were reclassified to interest income during 2003. Based on current market conditions, it is expected that $5.5 million of gross unrealized gains in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2003 will be reclassified to interest income over the next 12 months. The change in fair value attributable to hedge ineffectiveness and recorded directly to earnings during 2003 was not material. OTHER ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT DERIVATIVE POSITIONS. The Company's mortgage commitment pipeline is exposed to interest rate risk associated with interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) extended to individuals who have applied for loan funding and meet certain defined credit and underwriting criteria. IRLCs are considered derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133 and are recorded at fair value, with changes in value recorded in current earnings. In addition to the mandatory forward contracts designated in fair value hedging relationships of loans held for resale, Union Planters also enters into both mandatory and optional short-term forward contracts to mitigate interest rate risk associated with IRLCs. (Losses) gains on IRLCs and related derivative contracts totaled a net amount of ($16.5) million during 2003, compared to $10.8 million during 2002 and $(894,000) during 2001. Union Planters also enters into various derivative instruments to offset changes in fair value of its MSR portfolio. These derivative instruments are marked-to-market and recorded as a component of mortgage banking revenues. Typical derivative instruments used by Union Planters may include interest rate swaps, swaptions, caps and floors. The gain recorded in association with these derivative instruments during 2003 totaled $9.5 million. There was no gain or loss in 2002 or 2001. 41
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The Company commits to buy certain loans under best efforts commitments, which are agreements whereby a correspondent lender or broker has the option to sell a loan to the Company at a stated price. If the correspondent lender or broker does not exercise the option, no transaction takes place. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, the best efforts commitments are defined as derivative financial instruments and therefore, are marked-to-market. The impact on the consolidated financial statements of best efforts commitments was immaterial for all periods presented. CUSTOMER-RELATED POSITIONS. Union Planters may act as a seller and buyer of both interest rate contracts and foreign exchange contracts to satisfy customer demand for these instruments. Union Planters will minimize interest rate and foreign currency risk by entering into substantially similar offsetting positions with external counterparties. This activity was not considered material for any of the periods presented. Summary information for all derivative financial instruments follows: NOTE 19. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CREDIT EXTENSION INSTRUMENTS. In the normal course of business, Union Planters becomes a party to various types of financial instruments in order to meet the financing needs of its customers. These instruments involve elements of credit risk limited to the contractual amount of the instrument and are not reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Union Planters follows the same credit policies in making commitments and contractual obligations as it does for on-balance-sheet instruments. In addition, controls for these instruments related to approval, monetary limits and monitoring procedures are established by the Union Planters Directors' Loan Committee. Commitments to extend credit are legally binding agreements to extend credit to customers for specific purposes, at stipulated rates, with fixed expiration and review dates if the conditions in the agreement are met and may require payment of a fee. Since many of the commitments normally expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Collateral held, if any, varies but may include accounts receivable; inventory; property, plant and equipment; income-producing properties or securities. Letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by Union Planters to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers. In some cases, Union Planters holds various types of 42
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) collateral to support those commitments for which collateral is deemed necessary. The outstanding letters of credit expire between 2004 and 2015. The following table presents the contractual amounts of these types of instruments: WHEN ISSUED SECURITIES. When issued securities are commitments to either purchase or sell securities when, as and if they are issued. The trades are contingent upon the actual issuance of the security. These transactions represent conditional commitments made by Union Planters, and risk arises from the possible inability of the counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from market movements in securities values and interest rates. The following table presents the notional amounts of these types of instruments: 43
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 20. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying values and fair values of Union Planters' financial instruments are summarized as follows: Union Planters uses the following methods and assumptions in estimating the fair value for financial instruments: CASH AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS. The carrying amount for cash and short-term investments approximates the fair value of the assets. Included in this classification are cash and due from banks (non-earning assets), federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreements to resell and interest-bearing deposits at financial institutions. TRADING ACCOUNT ASSETS. These instruments are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at values that approximate their fair values, which is determined based on model pricing giving consideration to the interest rates and weighted-average maturities of the underlying instruments, counterparty credit quality and interest rate yield curves. The calculated valuations are periodically confirmed with recognized derivative dealers. LOANS HELD FOR RESALE. These instruments are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at the lower of cost or fair value on an aggregate basis unless the loans are part of a qualifying and effective hedging relationship. Substantially all of the Company's mortgage loans originated for sale into the secondary market are hedged with derivative financial instruments in a qualifying and effective hedging relationship. As a result, substantially all such loans are carried at fair value. 44
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) INVESTMENT SECURITIES. Fair values of these instruments are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on the quoted values of similar instruments. LOANS. The fair values of loans are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and using interest rates currently being offered for loans with similar terms to borrowers of similar credit quality and risk. The fair value of nonaccrual loans and the allowance for losses on loans are approximated by their book values. MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS. The fair values of MSRs are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses utilizing estimated portfolio prepayment speeds and market discount rates. DEPOSITS. The fair values of demand deposits (i.e., checking accounts, savings accounts, money market deposit accounts and NOW accounts) are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amount). The fair values of time deposits (i.e., certificates of deposit, IRAs, investment savings, etc.) are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered on these instruments to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS. The carrying amounts of short-term FHLB advances, federal funds purchased, overnight time deposits and other short-term borrowings approximate their fair values. The fair value of securities sold under agreements to repurchase is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and using current federal funds rates. SHORT- AND MEDIUM-TERM SENIOR NOTES. The fair value of these notes is estimated from market quotes. If market quotes are not available, fair values are based on quoted values of similar instruments. FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ADVANCES. The carrying value of variable rate/LIBOR-based advances approximates their fair values. The fair value of fixed-rate advances is estimated using discounted cash flows and using the FHLB quoted rates of borrowing for advances with similar terms. OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT. The carrying value of variable rate/LIBOR-based debt instruments approximates their fair values. The fair value of fixed-rate long-term debt is estimated from market quotes. If market quotes are not available, fair values are based on quoted values of similar instruments. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated using market interest rates. The calculated valuations are periodically confirmed with recognized derivative dealers. The fair value of forward contracts is based on current market quotes. The fair value of interest rate locks is calculated using market interest rates. NOTE 21. LINES OF BUSINESS REPORTING Union Planters is managed along both traditional and nontraditional banking lines. During 2002, Union Planters enhanced the way operating results are reported to and reviewed by management including the allocation of certain expenses. As a result, Union Planters' now has two reportable business segments, Banking and Mortgage Banking. All business segment information for 2001 has been restated on a basis consistent with that for 2002 and 2003. Other lines of business are evaluated by management, although none of the other operations meets the criteria for as a separate reportable business segment. Banking includes the traditional deposit taking and lending functions of a bank, including consumer, commercial and corporate lending, retail banking and consumer services normally furnished by a bank. The Banking unit is managed along local and regional geographic lines. Mortgage Banking includes the origination of fixed and adjustable-rate mortgage loans, to be retained in the UPB portfolio, and for sale to specific investors. Not all mortgage loans are reported in Mortgage Banking, some are reported in Banking. Mortgage Banking also provides servicing for loans sold by UPB. Nontraditional services such as SBA loan 45
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) trading, financial services (annuities, trust, insurance products and brokerage services), factoring operations and professional employment services are managed separately but do not rise to the level of a reportable business segment. The accounting policies of the Banking and Mortgage Banking units are the same as those of Union Planters described in Note 1. Costs of funds are allocated between funds providers and funds users. Transactions between business units are primarily conducted at book value. The following table presents selected segment information for Banking, Mortgage Banking, the Other Operating Units and the Parent Company. The Parent Company is primarily the funding source for acquisition activities. - --------------- (1) Parent Company noninterest income and earnings before taxes are net of the intercompany dividend eliminations of $793 million in 2003, $363 million in 2002 and $278 million in 2001. 46
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 22. UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET 47
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) CONDENSED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS 48
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS NONCASH ACTIVITIES. See Note 2 and Note 10, respectively, regarding business combinations in 2003, 2002 and 2001 and the conversions of Series E Preferred Stock. NOTE 23. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Union Planters and/or its subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and are parties to various pending civil actions, all of which are being defended vigorously. Certain proceedings previously outstanding have been substantially settled within previously estimated amounts. Management is of the opinion, based upon present information, including evaluations by outside counsel, that neither Union Planters' financial position, results of operations nor liquidity will be materially affected by the ultimate resolution of pending or threatened legal proceedings. Activity affecting the Company's litigation reserve (i.e., provision for losses and settlement of claims) was not material to the Company's operations for any period in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003. 49
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) NOTE 24. SUBSEQUENT EVENT On January 22, 2004, Union Planters and Regions Financial Corporation (Regions) entered into a definitive merger agreement. Regions, headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, is a full-service provider of banking, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Upon completion of the merger, the combined company and its banking operations will be headquartered in Birmingham while Morgan Keegan, Regions' securities brokerage subsidiary, along with the combined mortgage business, will be headquartered in Memphis. Terms of the agreement call for the formation of a new holding company named New Regions Financial Corporation. In the transaction, each share of Union Planters' common stock will be converted into the right to receive one share of the new company stock, and each share of Regions' common stock will be converted into the right to receive 1.2346 shares of the new company common stock. The acquisition is subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals and other customary closing conditions. The transaction is expected to be completed in mid 2004. As a result of the merger, certain change-in-control provisions will be triggered related to the Union Planters' 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan and various stock incentive plans that will result in the immediate vesting of these benefits. In addition, in connection with the merger and pursuant to the terms of the series, all outstanding shares of Union Planters Cumulative, Convertible, Preferred Stock, Series E, will be redeemed on March 31, 2004. 50

. . . EXHIBIT 99.3 UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (UNAUDITED) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 1
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS (UNAUDITED) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (UNAUDITED) * Total comprehensive income for the six months ended June 30, 2003 was $260.6 million. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 3
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 4
UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1. PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The foregoing financial statements are unaudited; however, in the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods have been included. The accounting policies followed by Union Planters Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, Union Planters or the Company) for interim financial reporting are consistent with the accounting policies followed for annual financial reporting, except for certain changes in credit policy and newly issued accounting pronouncements discussed below. The consolidated financial statements and notes included herein should be read in conjunction with Union Planters' 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2004 financial reporting presentation which includes certain changes to conform to the presentation used by Regions Financial Corporation (see Note 2). NONPERFORMING LOANS POLICY AND PRACTICES. During the second quarter of 2004, Union Planters made certain changes to its nonperforming loans policy and practices. Previously, it was Union Planters' policy to place mortgage loans past due 90 days or more on nonaccrual status only if the loan was not in the process of collection and not well secured. Union Planters changed this policy to place mortgage loans on nonaccrual status once they become 90 days past due. This policy is more consistent with prevailing practice in the banking industry. This change in policy resulted in a $3.0 million reduction in loan interest income for the six months ended June 30, 2004. During the quarter, Union Planters also changed certain commercial loan charge-off practices and policies. Previously, problem commercial loans were reviewed in detail during the last month of a quarter, with any associated writedowns generally taken within the following month. This practice was changed to review the loans in the second month of the quarter resulting in any writedowns being taken within the same quarter that the review was performed. Additionally, the process for evaluating collateral and guaranties on commercial nonperforming loans was standardized and modified to ensure consistency with historical loss experiences for various collateral types. These practices and policies are more consistent with those prevailing in the banking industry and resulted in charge-offs of $36.0 million. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION. Union Planters has currently elected not to adopt the recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, which requires a fair-value based method of accounting for stock options and similar equity awards. As permitted under SFAS No. 123, Union Planters continues to apply Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations in accounting for its stock compensation plans and, accordingly, does not recognize compensation cost, except for stock grants. Had compensation cost for Union Planters' stock option plans been consistently expensed based on fair value at the grant date for awards under the methodology prescribed in SFAS No. 123, Union Planters' net income and earnings per share would have been reduced as shown in the table below. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions during the six month periods ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively: expected dividend yield of 4.24% and 4.51%; expected volatility of 25.16% and 27.00%; risk-free interest rate of 2.66% and 2.28%; and an expected life of 2.3 years and 2.5 years. Forfeitures are recognized as they occur. (1) For the purpose of calculating basic earnings per share, net earnings is adjusted by the dividend on preferred stock, which was approximately $.08 million in 2004 and $.4 million in 2003. 5
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS INTEREST RATE LOCK COMMITMENTS. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) recently issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 105. SAB No. 105 clarifies the SEC's position that the inclusion of cash flows from servicing or ancillary income in the determination of the fair value of interest rate lock commitments is not appropriate. SAB No. 105 must be implemented for loan commitments entered into on or after April 1, 2004. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES. In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51. The Company adopted FIN No. 46 on July 1, 2003 and as a result, deconsolidated Union Planters Capital Trust A (the UPC Trust). The sole assets of the UPC Trust are 8.20% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures of Union Planters Corporation (the Junior Subordinated Debentures). The UPC Trust's liabilities are primarily represented by 8.20% Trust Preferred Securities, which have previously been included in other long-term debt in the Union Planters Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under FIN No. 46, the Junior Subordinated Debentures, which are substantially equal in amount to the Trust Preferred Securities, cease to be eliminated in consolidation and are included in other long-term debt in the Union Planters Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2004. The Trust Preferred Securities presently qualify as Tier 1 regulatory capital and are reported in Federal Reserve regulatory reports as a minority interest in a consolidated subsidiary. The Junior Subordinated Debentures do not qualify as Tier 1 regulatory capital. The Federal Reserve Board has reached no final conclusion on the continued qualification of Trust Preferred Securities but has indicated that until further notice, Trust Preferred Securities will continue to count as Tier 1 regulatory capital. Should the Federal Reserve Board reach a conclusion that Trust Preferred Securities no longer included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet would cease to qualify as Tier 1 regulatory capital, Union Planters' Tier 1 regulatory capital would be reduced by approximately $200 million. NOTE 2. MERGER WITH REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION On January 22, 2004, Union Planters and Regions Financial Corporation (Regions) entered into a definitive merger agreement. Regions, headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, is a full-service provider of banking, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Upon completion of the merger, the combined company and its banking operations will be headquartered in Birmingham, while Morgan Keegan, Regions' securities brokerage subsidiary, along with the combined mortgage business, will be headquartered in Memphis. Terms of the agreement call for the formation of a new holding company named Regions Financial Corporation. As a result of the merger, certain change-in-control provisions will be triggered related to various stock incentive plans that will result in the immediate vesting of these benefits. During the six months ended June 30, 2004, Union Planters incurred $19.7 million in merger-related expenses including certain legal, consulting, accounting, regulatory and other expenses in advance of the consummation of the transaction which took place on July 1, 2004. 6
NOTE 3. ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON LOANS AND NONPERFORMING LOANS The changes in the allowance for losses on loans for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 are as follows: During the first quarter of 2004, management reduced the allowance for losses on loans by $43.9 million as the result of a decision to sell a $235.2 million portfolio of brokered home equity and rental car fleet loans. A $25.8 million charge to the provision for losses on loans was also required to write the portfolio down to fair value prior to completing the transfer to loans held for resale. The charge was required because the change in intent with regard to the loans from holding them to maturity to holding them for resale results in the loans being accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value rather than at historical cost. Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the difference between cost and the lower fair value is charged to the provision for losses on loans, with any future write-downs charged to noninterest expense. During the second quarter of 2004, management reduced the allowance for losses on loans by $39.6 million as the result of a decision to sell loans of $286.2 million included in an asset based lending portfolio held within the Capital Factors subsidiary. The same $39.6 million was charged to the provision for losses on loans to write the portfolio down to fair value prior to completing the transfer to loans held for resale. Also during the second quarter of 2004, changes in nonperforming loans policy and practices resulted in an increase in charge-offs of $36.0 million and a decrease in interest income on loans of $3.0 million. Refer to Note 1 for further detail regarding these changes. Nonperforming loans are summarized as follows: 7
NOTE 4. MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS Union Planters acted as servicing agent on behalf of others for residential mortgage loans totaling approximately $24.4 billion at June 30, 2004, compared to $24.7 billion at December 31, 2003. The principal balances of loans serviced for others are not included in Union Planters' Consolidated Balance Sheet. The following table presents a reconciliation of the changes in MSRs and the related valuation allowance: During the first six months of 2004, Union Planters recorded a permanent impairment of MSRs of $16.8 million, which reduced both the gross carrying value and associated valuation allowance of the MSRs. NOTE 5. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY COMMON STOCK Union Planters was authorized by its Board of Directors (Board) to repurchase shares of its common stock from time-to-time, and as of June 30, 2004 had remaining authorization from the Board to repurchase approximately 24.7 million shares of the Company's common stock. PREFERRED STOCK During the first quarter of 2004, Union Planters announced its intention to redeem all outstanding shares of its convertible Series E Preferred stock. All shares that were not converted by shareholders prior to March 31, 2004 were redeemed at par. The result was the conversion of 352,012 shares and the redemption of 32,107 shares not converted prior to the announced redemption date. NOTE 6. PREFERRED STOCK OF SUBSIDIARY During 2003, Union Planters Preferred Funding Corporation (UPPFC), an indirect majority-owned, consolidated subsidiary of Union Planters, issued 1,000 shares of 7.75% non-cumulative, perpetual preferred stock, Series B (Series B Preferred Shares), with a liquidation value of $100,000 per share to another indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Union Planters, U.P. REIT Holdings, Inc. (UP REIT Holdings). UPPFC is a real-estate investment trust (REIT) established for the purpose of acquiring, holding and managing real estate mortgage assets. All of the Series B Preferred Shares were subsequently sold privately to non-affiliates without registration. These securities qualify as Tier I capital and are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in other liabilities. Dividends on the 8
Series B Preferred Shares are payable quarterly and are included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in other noninterest expense. The Series B Preferred Shares are redeemable on or after July 15, 2023 and redeemable at the discretion of UPPFC in the event that the Series B Preferred Shares cannot be accounted for as Tier 1 regulatory capital or there is more than an insubstantial risk that dividends paid with respect to the Series B Preferred Shares will not be fully tax deductible. The total amount of Series B Preferred Shares issued and outstanding on June 30, 2004, net of discount and issuance costs, was $87.8 million. Concurrent with the issuance of the Series B Preferred Shares, UPPFC also issued 3,736 shares of non-cumulative, perpetual preferred stock, Series C (Series C Preferred Shares), with a liquidation value of $100,000 per share to UP REIT Holdings. The holder of each of the Series C Preferred Shares is entitled to dividends, payable quarterly, at an annual rate of three month LIBOR plus 3% on the liquidation value. Additionally, the Series C Preferred Shares rank equal to the Series B Preferred Shares. At June 30, 2004, UP REIT Holdings continued to own all of the Series C Preferred Shares. So long as the Series C Preferred Shares are owned by Union Planters or a consolidated subsidiary, the shares and dividends paid thereon are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The Series B Preferred Shares and the Series C Preferred Shares are not convertible into any other securities of UPPFC, Union Planters or any of its subsidiaries. The Series B Preferred Shares are, however, automatically exchangeable at the direction of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) for preferred stock of UPB, having substantially the same terms as the Series B Preferred Shares in the event UPB becomes undercapitalized under the OCC's "prompt corrective actions" regulations, insolvent or, in the OCC's sole discretion, in danger of becoming undercapitalized. Should UPPFC not pay dividends on the Series B Preferred Shares or the Series C Preferred Shares, both UPPFC and UPB will be precluded from paying dividends on their common stock until dividends have been paid on the Series B Preferred Shares for four consecutive quarters. NOTE 7. INCOME TAXES Applicable income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2004 were $26.7 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 23.91%. Applicable income taxes for the same period in 2003 were $68.8 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 20.48%. The increase in the effective rate in 2004, as compared to 2003, is due primarily to the net effect of the following items. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company recorded a current federal tax benefit of $25.0 million related to the completion of a transaction designed to raise Tier 1 capital through the issuance of preferred stock and $11.0 million related to a reversal of a previously established tax liability, that was no longer needed. The 2004 effective tax rate reflects the tax benefit of an investment in a pass-thru entity that generates tax credits that can be utilized to offset federal income tax. Additionally, the Company recorded a federal tax benefit in the second quarter of 2004 of $67.8 million due to the restructuring and liquidation of certain of its subsidiaries. A valuation reserve of $60.3 million was recorded against this benefit. At June 30, 2004, the Company had a net deferred tax asset of $50.2 million. The tax expense applicable to investment securities gains for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 was $12.3 million and $24.8 million, respectively. 9
NOTE 8. EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of earnings per share is summarized as follows: Excluded from the computation of diluted shares were options to purchase 7.1 million and .8 million shares that were outstanding at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, because the exercise price of these options was greater than the average market price of the common shares, and therefore, the effect would be antidilutive. NOTE 9. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Union Planters uses derivative financial instruments to manage risk associated with certain assets and liabilities and provide customers with products that meet their business requirements. ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT POSITIONS FAIR VALUE HEDGES. To mitigate interest rate risk associated with certain deposits and debt, Union Planters has entered into interest rate swap agreements that qualify as fair value hedges. The swaps and the related debt are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at current fair value at the end of each period. The changes in fair value of both the hedged item and the swap along with the net interest income or expense on the swap are netted against the interest expense related to the hedged item in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company is also exposed to credit and interest-rate risk related to its mortgage inventory from the time a loan is closed until completion of normal post-closing review and the subsequent sale of the loan, normally 60 to 90 days. To mitigate interest rate risk associated with mortgage activities, Union Planters enters into mandatory short-term forward contracts, which are contracts for delayed delivery of mortgages in which the Company agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Risks arise from the possible inability of the counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from market movements in securities values and interest rates. These derivative financial instruments are associated with closed loans pending review and sale in fair value hedging relationships to reduce interest rate risk exposure. The fair value adjustment to loans held for resale as a result of these hedging relationships was $3.4 million at June 30, 2004. The ineffective portion of all fair value hedges had an immaterial impact on interest expense during the six month periods ended June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003. 10
CASH FLOW HEDGES. Union Planters enters into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the variability of future cash flows associated with certain variable-rate loans. At June 30, 2004, an unrealized loss, net of taxes, of $2.8 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income for the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. The reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest income will occur as interest income is accrued on the underlying loans. Net gains of approximately $3.0 million were reclassified to interest income during the six months ended June 30, 2004. There were no net gains reclassified during the six months ended June 30, 2003 as these agreements were not entered into until after that date. Based on current market conditions, it is expected that $.2 million of gross unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive income at June 30, 2004 will be reclassified to interest income over the next 12 months. The change in fair value attributable to hedge ineffectiveness and recorded directly to earnings during the six month period ended June 30, 2004 was not material. OTHER ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT DERIVATIVE POSITIONS. The Company's mortgage commitment pipeline is exposed to interest rate risk associated with interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) extended to individuals who have applied for loan funding and meet certain defined credit and underwriting criteria. IRLCs are considered derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and are recorded at fair value, with changes in value recorded in current earnings. In addition to the mandatory forward contracts designated in fair value hedging relationships of loans held for resale, Union Planters also enters into both mandatory and optional short-term forward contracts to mitigate interest rate risk associated with IRLCs. (Losses) gains on IRLCs and related derivative contracts totaled a net amount of ($5.0) million during the first six months of 2004, compared to $10.4 million during the first six months of 2003. Union Planters also enters into various derivative instruments to offset changes in fair value of its MSRs portfolio. These derivative instruments are marked-to-market and recorded as a component of mortgage banking revenues. Typical derivative instruments used by Union Planters may include interest rate swaps, swaptions, caps and floors. The loss recorded in association with these derivative instruments during the six months ended June 30, 2004 totaled approximately $27.6 million. There was no gain or loss during the six months ended June 30, 2003. Summary information for all derivative financial instruments follows: 11
NOTE 10. LINE OF BUSINESS REPORTING - -------------------- (1) Parent company noninterest income and earnings before income taxes are net of the intercompany dividend eliminations of $107.2 million and $526.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. NOTE 11. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Union Planters and/or its subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and are parties to various pending civil actions, all of which are being defended vigorously. Certain proceedings previously outstanding have been subsequently settled within previously estimated amounts. While it is impossible to predict with certainty the outcome of any legal proceeding, based upon present information, including evaluations by outside counsel, management is of the opinion that neither Union Planters' financial position, results of operations nor liquidity will be materially adversely affected by the ultimate resolution of pending or threatened legal proceedings. 12

EXHIBIT 99.4 PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION The following Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition combines the historical Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") and its subsidiaries and the historical Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition of Union Planters Corporation ("Union Planters") and its subsidiaries giving effect to the merger as if it had occurred on June 30, 2004 as an acquisition by Regions of Union Planters using the purchase method of accounting and giving effect to the related pro forma adjustments described in the accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The following Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003, combines the historical Consolidated Statements of Income of Regions and subsidiaries and Union Planters and subsidiaries giving effect to the merger as if the merger had become effective at January 1, 2004 and January 1, 2003, respectively, as an acquisition by Regions of Union Planters using the purchase method of accounting and giving effect to the related pro forma adjustments described in the accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated financial statements included herein are presented for informational purposes only. This information includes various estimates and may not necessarily be indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would have occurred if the merger had been consummated on the date or at the beginning of the period indicated or which may be attained in the future. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the historical financial statements and related notes thereto of Regions and subsidiaries and Union Planters and subsidiaries. We anticipate that the merger will provide the combined company with financial benefits that include reduced operating expenses. The pro forma information, while helpful in illustrating the financial characteristics of the combined company under one set of assumptions, does not reflect the benefits of expected cost savings, opportunities to earn additional revenue, or the impact of restructuring and merger-related costs and, accordingly, does not attempt to predict or suggest future results. It also does not necessarily reflect what the historical results of the combined company would have been had our companies been combined during this period. 1
REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AS OF JUNE 30, 2004 THE ACCOMPANYING NOTES ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION. 2
REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2004 THE ACCOMPANYING NOTES ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION. 3
REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 THE ACCOMPANYING NOTES ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION. 4
REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND UNION PLANTERS CORPORATION NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2004 NOTE 1. The merger is accounted for as an acquisition by Regions of Union Planters using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the assets and liabilities of Union Planters are recorded at their respective fair values on the merger date. The merger was effected by the issuance of Regions $0.01 par value common stock to Regions stockholders and Union Planters shareholders. Each share of Regions $0.625 par value common stock was exchanged for 1.2346 shares of Regions $0.01 par value common stock, and each share of Union Planters common stock was exchanged for one share of New Regions common stock. The Regions historical weighted average shares outstanding for the six months ended June 30, 2004 have already been adjusted for the exchange of 1.2346 shares of New Regions common stock for each share of Regions common stock. The shares of Regions common stock issued to effect the merger are recorded at $31.27 per share. This amount was determined by averaging the price of shares of Regions common stock over a four-day period surrounding the date the merger was announced and dividing by the Regions exchange ratio. The Pro Forma Combined Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition combines the historical Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition of Regions and its subsidiaries and the unaudited historical Consolidated Balance Sheet of Union Planters and its subsidiaries giving effect to the merger as if it had occurred on June 30, 2004 as an acquisition by Regions of Union Planters using the purchase method of accounting. The Pro Forma Combined Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003 combine the unaudited historical Consolidated Statements of Income of Regions and subsidiaries and the unaudited historical Consolidated Statements of Earnings of Union Planters and subsidiaries giving effect to the merger as if the merger had become effective at January 1, 2004 and January 1, 2003, respectively, as an acquisition by Regions of Union Planters using the purchase method of accounting. The pro forma financial information includes estimated adjustments to record assets and liabilities of Union Planters at their respective fair values. The pro forma adjustments included herein are subject to change as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined within one year after the completion of the merger. The further refinement of exit costs and other purchase accounting adjustments will change the amount of excess purchase price recorded. The final adjustments may be materially different from the unaudited pro forma adjustments presented herein. The pro forma financial information for the merger is included only as of June 30, 2004 and for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003. The unaudited pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the merger been completed at the beginning of the applicable periods presented, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company. 5
NOTE 2. The pro forma financial information reflects the issuance of 461,842,025 shares of New Regions common stock on June 30, 2004, with an aggregate par value of approximately $4.6 million. The table below provides the number of shares issued: The pro forma financial information also includes adjustments to stockholders' equity for the elimination of Union Planters' accumulated other comprehensive loss of $94.3 million, the immediate vesting of Union Planters' unearned stock compensation of $41.1 million and the elimination of Union Planters' undivided profits of $1,548.0 million. All of these amounts have been reclassified into surplus. In addition to these equity adjustments, $79.8 million was included in the purchase price for the estimated fair value of all unexercised Union Planters' stock options assumed upon the merger. The $79.8 million estimate of fair value of the Union Planters' stock options is based on the Black-Scholes option model. The following table provides a summary of pro forma adjustments to stockholders' equity: NOTE 3. The purchase accounting adjustments included in the pro forma statement of financial condition include adjustments to loans, interest-bearing deposits, and long-term borrowings of $126.7 million, $27.3 million and $177.6 million, respectively. These adjustments are based on preliminary valuations performed as of June 30, 2004 and may change as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. A purchase accounting adjustment to property and equipment of $33.4 million has been included in the pro forma statement of financial condition to reduce these assets to their preliminary estimated fair value. The $33.4 million primarily relates to the revaluation of Union Planters' buildings and land. 6
The table below provides the calculation of pro forma adjustments related to intangible assets which are included in the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Financial Condition (in millions): The purchase accounting adjustments include a core deposit intangible asset adjustment of $266.6 million. The adjustment includes the establishment of a core deposit intangible asset of $368.0 million less Union Planters' recorded core deposit intangible of $101.4 million. The $101.4 million core deposit intangible is eliminated since the $368.0 million core deposit intangible established represents the estimated intangible relating to all acquired deposits including those for which Union Planters had previously established a core deposit intangible. The $368.0 million was calculated using a present value cash flow analysis of the estimated savings on the core deposit base compared to Regions' alternative cost of funds. The amortization of the core deposit intangible in the pro forma statements of operations is calculated on an accelerated method over the total estimated life of the deposits. The purchase accounting adjustments also include a $51.5 million reduction in other assets to eliminate other unidentifiable intangible assets of Union Planters that arose from previously completed branch acquisitions. This unidentifiable intangible asset has historically been amortized by Union Planters in accordance with the transition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 147, Acquisitions of Certain Financial Institutions. However, since Regions' acquisition of Union Planters will be a business combination as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 ("Statement 141"), Business Combinations, the criterion for intangible assets established by Statement 141 must be evaluated. This unidentifiable intangible asset is eliminated in the pro forma adjustments because it does not meet the contractual-legal criterion or the separability criterion for intangible assets established by Statement 141. An analysis to determine if other identifiable intangible assets exist has not yet been completed. Upon completion of this analysis, additional intangible assets may be recorded which will affect the purchase price allocation. The pro forma statement of financial condition includes an estimated $104.1 million adjustment to other liabilities for liabilities expected to be assumed in the merger and the establishment of deferred taxes related to purchase accounting adjustments. The estimated liabilities assumed in the merger consist of personnel related costs which include involuntary termination benefits for Union Planters' employees severed in connection with the merger as well as relocation costs for continuing Union Planters' employees, and occupancy costs related to lease cancellation penalties for space vacated in connection with the merger. Also included in the $104.1 million estimated liability is the establishment of a $37.6 million liability for investment banking fees, attorney fees, accountant fees, and other transaction related costs and a deferred tax adjustment of $16.7 million which is based on 35% of all taxable purchase accounting adjustments to assets and liabilities. 7
The following table provides the calculation and allocation of the purchase price used in the pro forma financial statements:
Purchase price: New Regions shares issued to Union Planters common shareholders ............................................................ 190,268,933 Average Regions share price over four days surrounding announcement of merger .................................................. $ 38.61 Regions exchange ratio ..................................................... 1.2346 $ 31.27 ------------ ------------ Purchase price per Union Planters common share (in millions) ............... $ 5,950.3 Estimated fair value of Union Planters stock options ....................... 79.8 ------------ Purchase price ............................................................. 6,030.1 Net assets acquired (in millions): Union Planters' shareholders' equity ....................................... $ 2,937.9 Less Union Planters' excess purchase price and other intangibles ........... (896.1) (2,041.8) ------------ ------------ Excess of purchase price over carrying value of net assets acquired ........ 3,988.3 Estimated adjustments to reflect fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed: Loans, net of unearned income .............................................. (126.7) Premises and equipment ..................................................... 33.4 Core deposit intangible .................................................... (368.0) Estimated liabilities assumed: Personnel related ....................................................... $ 40.7 Occupancy related ....................................................... 9.1 Other ................................................................... 37.6 Deferred income taxes ................................................... 16.7 ------------ 104.1 Interest-bearing deposits .................................................. 27.3 Long-term borrowings ....................................................... 177.6 ------------ Excess purchase price ...................................................... $ 3,836.0 ============
NOTE 4. The pro forma combined condensed statements of income for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003 include adjustments for the amortization of the estimated core deposit intangible, the estimated amortization of purchase accounting adjustments made to securities, loans, interest-bearing deposits, and long-term borrowings, and the related tax effect of all the adjustments. The amortization of the purchase accounting adjustments made to loans, interest-bearing deposits, and long-term borrowings was estimated using the effective yield method over the estimated life of the assets or liabilities. In the historical June 30, 2004 Union Planters' consolidated balance sheet, Union Planters reported a $146.7 million unrealized loss on available for sale securities in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The $146.7 million will be accounted for as a discount paid by Regions and will be recognized over the remaining life of the portfolio using the effective yield method. Included in the unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated statements of income are purchase accounting adjustments made to interest on securities related to the accretion of the $146.7 million purchase accounting discount. The accretion included in the unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated statements of income has been calculated using the straight line method over the weighted average life of the securities portfolio of 3.6 years. Purchase accounting adjustments were also included in the pro forma combined condensed consolidated statements of income to reduce the estimated depreciation resulting from premises and equipment write-downs and to eliminate the amortization of Union Planters' other unidentifiable intangible assets. The depreciation adjustment is included in net occupancy and equipment expense, and the amortization adjustment is included in other non-interest expense. The depreciation adjustment was estimated using a straight-line basis and an estimated useful life of 39 years for buildings. 8
Based on the assumptions described above and the merger becoming effective July 1, 2004, the estimated impact of the purchase accounting adjustments on income before income taxes for the six months ended December 31, 2004 and the five-year period ended December 31, 2009 is provided in the table below (in millions): As discussed in Note 5, Regions expects to incur merger and restructuring expenses in connection with the merger. For the six months ended June 30, 2004, the historical financial statements of Regions and Union Planters include a combined total of $24.1 million in restructuring and merger related expenses. All other restructuring and merger related expenses will be recorded in the combined results of operations as they are incurred. Additionally, Regions is expected to realize approximately $200 million in cost savings following the merger. These cost savings are not reflected in the pro forma financial information. The adjustments reflected in the pro forma combined condensed consolidated statements of income are presented in the table below: 9
The pro forma weighted average shares outstanding for the six months ended June 30, 2004 were calculated as follows: - ---------- (1) The Regions historical weighted average shares outstanding for the six months ended June 30, 2004 have already been adjusted for the exchange of 1.2346 shares of New Regions common stock for each share of Regions common stock. The pro forma weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2003 were calculated as follows: NOTE 5. In connection with the merger, Regions continues to consolidate the operations of Regions and Union Planters. The consolidation of operations will involve involuntary termination of Union Planters' employees, vacating Union Planters' leased premises, canceling contracts between Union Planters and certain service providers and selling or otherwise disposing of certain premises, furniture and equipment owned by Union Planters. The costs associated with these activities will be recorded as purchase accounting adjustments, which have the effect of increasing the amount of the purchase price allocable to excess purchase price. The pro forma combined condensed consolidated statement of financial condition includes a preliminary estimate of such costs of $120.7 million. The $120.7 million consists of a premises and equipment reduction of $33.4 million and liabilities incurred of $87.3 million. See Note 3 for additional discussion. In addition to the consolidation of operations impacting Union Planters' employees and activities, certain decisions may be made to involuntarily terminate Regions employees, vacate Regions leased premises, cancel contracts and sell or otherwise dispose of certain premises, furniture and equipment owned by Regions. These exit and disposal costs will be recorded in accordance with FASB Statement No. 146 in the results of operations of the combined company in the period incurred. New Regions also expects to incur merger-related expenses in the process of combining the operations of the two companies. These merger-related expenses include system conversion costs, employee retention arrangements and costs of incremental communications to customers and others. It is expected that the exit and disposal costs along with the merger-related costs will be incurred over a three-year period after completion of the merger. NOTE 6. Based on the unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated statement of financial condition included herein, the pro forma capital ratios for the combined company as of June 30, 2004 are as follows: 10


