FILE:RF/RF-8K-20051223165323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 20, 2005 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION ----------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-6159 63-0589368 - ---------------- ------------- ------------------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 417 North 20th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35203 -------------------------------------------- ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) (205) 944-1300 ---------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A DEFINITIVE MATERIAL AGREEMENT Acceleration of Unvested Nonqualified Options - --------------------------------------------- Effective December 20, 2005, the compensation committee of the board of directors of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions" or the "Company") approved the acceleration of vesting of unvested nonqualified stock options outstanding as of such date, subject to possible exceptions. Absent the acceleration of vesting, the unvested options would have become exercisable in 2006 through 2008, depending on the date of grant. Holders of the unvested nonqualified options include the executive officers of the Company. The number of shares and exercise prices of the options subject to the acceleration are unchanged, and the remaining terms for each of such options remain the same. Generally, options that were granted as incentive stock options (ISOs) are not being accelerated, because of tax considerations applicable to ISOs. A limited number of ISOs may be accelerated, with the consent of the holder. In the case of options held by certain executives or key employees of Regions, generally those who were employed by Regions prior to the combination of Regions and Union Planters Corporation and having a prior employment agreement or change of control agreement with Regions, the accelerated vesting is contingent on the holder entering into a career award agreement, as described below. Regions will adopt Financial Accounting Standard Board Statement No. 123R ("Share-based Payment") effective on January 1, 2006. The decision to accelerate the vesting of the unvested nonqualified options primarily was made to reduce noncash compensation expense that would otherwise have been recorded in Regions' financial statements in future periods, in accordance with Statement No. 123R. Assuming all affected executives and key employees enter into career award agreements, the expense that otherwise would have been recorded in future periods, absent the accelerated vesting, is approximately $14.7 million (pre-tax). Regions believes the decision to accelerate the unvested nonqualified options is in the best interests of the Company, its shareholders, and the option holders. The acceleration of vesting affects 4,452,842 outstanding nonqualified stock options, including 701,619 options held by the named executive officers listed in the summary compensation table in Regions' 2005 proxy statement. The options being accelerated have exercise prices ranging from $25.66 to $35.29, with a weighted average exercise price of $31.96. The average of the high and low prices for Regions common stock quoted on the New York Stock Exchange on December 20, 2005 was $34.655. Employment and Change of Control Arrangements - -------------------------------------------- Generally, the senior executive officers and other key officers of Regions who were officers of Regions prior to its combination with Union Planters Corporation ("legacy Regions officers") have had agreements that provided them protections in the event of a change of control of Regions. The terms and conditions of such agreements varied depending on the level of the officer's title and responsibilities, and provided similar but not identical protection in the event of a change of control. Consistent with current trends in executive compensation and corporate governance matters, Regions is modifying its approach to change of control arrangements. To effect the transition from Regions' existing change of control
structure, and as consideration for the legacy Regions officers' agreement to surrender certain of their existing contractual rights, Regions has initiated a program that it has designated the "career award program." Accordingly, in December, 2005, Regions and many of its officers revised and reworked the existing change of control arrangements by entering into new agreements styled "career award agreements", and, in the case of Regions' most senior executives, including those who are not legacy Regions officers, new change of control agreements. The following discussion addresses the agreements and arrangements, and the modifications to the prior agreements and arrangements, between Regions and its affected "named executive officers," and other affected "executive officers," both as defined for purposes of Regions' periodic reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A group of senior legacy Regions executive officers had employment agreements with Regions that generally provided three years of change of control protection and a multiplier of three applicable to computing a change of control payment ("three year agreements"). Other of Regions' executive officers had change of control agreements with two year protection and a multiplier of two ("two year agreements"). Together, the form of career award agreement and the form of the new change of control agreement implement the following with respect to the executive officers who are legacy Regions officers and who enter into a career award agreement: - -- The new change of control agreement replaces and supersedes the existing employment agreement or change of control agreement. - -- The executive officer has waived and surrendered the up-coming election window period during which the executive could have terminated employment and received the change of control payments due under his prior employment agreement or change of control agreement by virtue of a termination for good reason. The election window period had arisen because the combination of Regions with Union Planters Corporation on July 1, 2004, was a change of control under the prior agreement. - -- Regions has agreed to grant to the executive officer a specified number of shares of restricted stock under a long term incentive plan. The restricted stock will have 5-year cliff vesting, with accelerated vesting in the event of death, disability, retirement at or after a specified age or retirement with written consent of Regions, or involuntary termination without cause. Dividends will be payable on the restricted stock during the restriction period so long as the executive remains employed by Regions. - -- If executive's employment is terminated by Regions without cause, and if the executive is not otherwise entitled to payment under his change of control agreement, Regions will pay a lump sum severance payment equal to the executive's annual base salary in effect on the date of termination, or equal to two times such amount, depending on whether the executive had a two year agreement or a three year agreement. Each of the new change of control agreements provides certain protections in the event a "change of control" of Regions occurs. For this purpose, the agreement defines "change of control" to include, generally, the acquisition by any person or group of beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of Regions; a change in composition of the board of directors such that incumbent directors make up less than a majority of the board; completion of a merger, consolidation or reorganization (subject to exceptions for certain noncontrol transactions); and a liquidation or dissolution of Regions or sale of all or substantially all of its assets.
Commencing on the date of a change of control and for the two year period following, Regions may terminate the employment of the executive officer signatory with or without "cause," which is defined generally as willfully failing to perform reasonably assigned duties, breach of fiduciary duty involving personal profit, commission of a felony or a crime involving fraud or moral turpitude, or engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that materially injures Regions. The executive officer may terminate employment with or without "good reason," which includes a reduction of the officer's compensation, benefits, duties or status, a forced relocation of more than 35 miles, or other material breach of the agreement by Regions. During such period, if Regions terminates the executive officer's employment other than for cause, or if the officer resigns for good reason, Regions must pay him accrued compensation and benefits plus an amount equal to two times the sum of his base salary and highest annual bonus during the three years preceding the year in which the change of control occurred or the year preceding the year in which the termination occurs. If the executive officer's employment is terminated by Regions for cause, or by reason of the officer's death, disability, or resignation other than for good reason, Regions' liability is limited to accrued compensation and benefits. If the executive officer disputes the existence of cause, he is entitled to have the determination reviewed by Regions' compensation committee or a review panel appointed by the committee. Likewise, Regions is entitled to a thirty day period to cure any claimed event of good reason. If any payment under the agreement causes the signatory executive officer to become subject to the excise tax imposed under section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, then Regions must make an additional payment sufficient to cover such excise tax plus all income and excise tax imposed on such additional payment. The new form of change of control agreement modified the prior change of control protections contractually afforded to the legacy Regions executive officers who were party to a three year agreement principally in the following respects: - -- The new form of agreement protects for a period of two years following a change of control, compared to three years under the prior agreement. - -- The new form of agreement, in case of termination following change of control by Regions for cause or by the executive officer for good reason, provides for a payment of two times the sum of annual base salary and bonus, compared to a multiple of three under the prior agreement. - -- Under the new form of agreement, the definition of good reason does not include any election window period during which the executive officer can elect to terminate employment and recover the multiple change of control payment. - -- The new form of agreement has a definition of good cause that is less expansive in certain other respects. In addition to legacy Regions executive officers, Regions has entered into the new form of change of control agreement with other of its senior executives.
Four executive officers of Regions have entered into particularized agreements. The individualized aspects of their agreements are described immediately following. Richard D. Horsley is retaining his existing employment agreement instead of entering into the new form of change of control agreement. However, Regions and Mr. Horsley have agreed that for purposes of the employment agreement, with reference to the change of control event occasioned by the combination of Regions and Union Planters Corporation, he has waived the provisions of the agreement applicable to termination of employment for good reason, except reduction of annual base salary and bonus and forced relocation. Further, Regions and Mr. Horsley have agreed that he is presently eligible for full retirement, and if Mr. Horsley retires at or after age 65, his career share restricted stock award and any other unvested equity awards will vest upon retirement, and the term of unexercised stock options will be extended beyond their normal 90 day exercise period following retirement to their original term. Peter D. Miller has agreed with the Company that he will be eligible for retirement on or after December 31, 2008, and if he retires on or after such date, his career share restricted stock award will vest upon retirement. David C. Gordon has agreed with the Company that he will be eligible for retirement at or after age 60, and if he retires at or after age 60, his career share restricted stock award and any other unvested equity awards will vest upon retirement, and the term of unexercised stock options will be extended beyond their normal 90 day exercise period following retirement to their original term. John M. Daniel's change of control agreement provides for three years of change of control protection and provides for a change of control payment of three times the sum of annual base salary and bonus. Included as exhibits to this Form 8-K are the forms of the listed agreements entered into between Regions and the following executive officers: William E. Askew, career award agreement and change of control agreement. John M. Daniel, change of control agreement. Robert A. Goethe, career award agreement and change of control agreement. David C. Gordon, career award agreement and change of control agreement. Richard D. Horsley, career award agreement. D. Bryan Jordan, career award agreement and change of control agreement. Peter D. Miller, career award agreement and change of control agreement. Andrew W. Stein, career award agreement and change of control agreement Samuel E. Upchurch, Jr., career award agreement and change of control agreement. Steve R. Vinson, career award agreement and change of control agreement.
Long Term Incentive Plan Awards - ------------------------------- The compensation committee approved long term incentive plan awards with a grant date of December 20, 2005, to a number of officers and key employees of Regions, including senior executive officers. The awards took the form of stock options, shares of restricted stock, and performance restricted stock awards. In the case of awards approved for a legacy Regions officer who is offered the career award opportunity as described above, the award is contingent on the recipient entering into a career award agreement. The stock options were granted with a term of seven years and an exercise price of $34.655. The options become exercisable over a three year period, with 1/3 exercisable after 12 months, 1/3 exercisable after 24 months, and 1/3 exercisable after 36 months, except that exercisability is delayed for an additional 12 months to the extent the value of incentive stock options (determined as of the date of grant) first exercisable in a calendar year exceeds $100,000 as to any recipient. The restricted stock awards will vest ratably at the end of each year in a three year period, conditioned on the recipient's continued service. Dividends are payable during the restriction period on the restricted stock awarded. The performance restricted stock awards provide for the granting of restricted stock in 2007 and 2008 based on the Company's achievement of company-wide performance goals, which relate to earnings per share for 2006 and earnings per share growth relative to peers in 2007. There is designated for each recipient a maximum award expressed in number of shares. The restricted stock will be granted only if the Company attains the threshold level of the performance goals, and, if awarded, could vary from 25% to 100% of the maximum award depending on the level of goal attainment. If awarded, the restricted stock will vest ratably at the end of each year in a three year period. Listed below are the long term incentive awards that were granted to "executive officers" of Regions and that are not contingent, either because the recipient was not in the group subject to the career award initiative or because the recipient has entered into a career award agreement. William E. Askew -- 45,147 stock options; 5,914 shares of restricted stock; 7,394 performance restricted shares. John M. Daniel -- 39,504 stock options; 5,175 shares of restricted stock; 5,546 performance restricted shares. Robert A. Goethe -- 39,504 stock options; 5,175 shares of restricted stock; 5,546 performance restricted shares. David C. Gordon -- 53,612 stock options; 7,023 shares of restricted stock; 8,318 performance restricted shares. H. Lynn Harton -- 50,791 stock options; 6,653 shares of restricted stock; 7,394 performance restricted shares.
Richard D. Horsley --112,867 stock options; 14,785 shares of restricted stock; 18,485 performance restricted shares. D. Bryan Jordan -- 79,007 stock options; 10,349 shares of restricted stock; 12,940 performance restricted shares. Peter D. Miller -- 56,434 stock options; 7,393 shares of restricted stock; 9,243 performance restricted shares. Steve J. Schenck -- 56,434 stock options; 7,393 shares of restricted stock; 9,243 performance restricted shares. Andrew W. Stein -- 45,147 stock options; 5,914 shares of restricted stock; 9,243 performance restricted shares. Samuel E. Upchurch, Jr. -- 79,007 stock options; 10,349 shares of restricted stock; 12,940 performance restricted shares. Steve R. Vinson -- 39,504 stock options; 5,175 shares of restricted stock; 5,546 performance restricted shares. John V. White, Jr. -- 56,434 stock options; 7,393 shares of restricted stock; 9,243 performance restricted shares. Recipients of the long term incentive plan awards must enter into an appropriate award agreement in the form approved by the compensation committee. Included as exhibits to this Form 8-K are the current forms of the following agreements: Award agreement for incentive stock options. Award agreement for nonqualified stock options. Award agreement for restricted stock awards. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The exhibits listed in the exhibit index are filed as a part of this current report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Registrant) By: /s/ D. Bryan Jordan D. Bryan Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Date: December 22, 2005
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 99.1 Form of CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT [As separately executed by William E. Askew, D. Bryan Jordan, David C. Gordon, Robert A. Goethe, Peter D. Miller, Andrew W. Stein, Samuel E. Upchurch, Jr., and Steve R. Vinson] AGREEMENT by and between Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and _________________ (the "Employee"), dated as of the ____ day of ____________, 20___. WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes the possibility that a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined) of the Company could occur and that such an event could result in significant distraction of the Company's key personnel because of the uncertainties inherent in such a situation; and WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is essential and in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to be able to retain the services of the Employee notwithstanding the possibility of a Change of Control and to ensure the Employee's continued dedication and efforts in such an event without undue concern for the Employee's personal financial and employment security; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the respective agreements of the parties set forth herein, it is hereby agreed as follows: 1. Certain Definitions. (a) "Accrued Compensation" shall mean the sum of: (i) the Employee's annual base salary through the Termination Date, to the extent not theretofore paid, (ii) reimbursement (in accordance with the Company's expense reimbursement policy) for reasonable and necessary business expenses incurred by the Employee on behalf of the Company prior to the Termination Date, (iii) Employee's accrued and unused vacation pay (in accordance with the Company's vacation policy) to the extent not theretofore paid, and (iv) bonuses and incentive compensation to which the Employee is entitled under the terms of applicable bonus or incentive plans or awards maintained by the Company. (b) "Affiliate" shall mean any entity directly or indirectly controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company or any corporation or other entity acquiring, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all the assets and business of the Company, whether by operation of law or otherwise.
(c) "Base Amount" shall mean the Employee's annual base salary at the rate in effect at the date hereof or, if greater, at any time hereafter prior to the Effective Date of the Change of Control, determined without regard to any salary reduction or deferred compensation elections made by the Employee. (d) "Bonus Amount" shall mean the highest bonus paid or payable to Employee by the Company in respect of any of the three (3) full fiscal years ended prior to the Effective Date of the Change of Control. (e) "Cause" shall mean: (i) the willful and continued failure of the Employee to perform substantially the Employee's reasonably assigned duties with the Company or any of its Affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), which failure continued for a period of at least thirty (30) days after a written demand for substantial performance, signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company, has been delivered to the Employee specifying the manner in which the Employee has failed substantially to perform, or (ii) the Employee's breach of fiduciary duty involving personal profit, commission of a felony or a crime involving fraud or moral turpitude, or material breach of any provision of this Agreement, or (iii) the willful engaging by the Employee in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially injurious to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no termination of the Employee's employment shall be for Cause until (i) there shall have been delivered to the Employee a Notice of Termination , and (ii) within fifteen days thereafter, the Employee shall have been provided an opportunity to be heard in person by the Compensation Committee of the Board or a review panel appointed by the Compensation Committee of the Board. For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act, on the part of the Employee, shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was legal, proper, and in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority and directives given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. Notwithstanding anything set forth in this Agreement to the contrary, no failure to perform by the Employee after a Notice of Termination is given by the Employee to the Company shall constitute Cause for the purposes of this Agreement. 2
(f) "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (i) the acquisition by any "Person" (as the term "person" is used for the purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of direct or indirect beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors (the "Voting Securities"); or (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board, or the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, shall be an Incumbent Director, unless such individual is initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors ("Election Contest") or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board ("Proxy Contest"), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or (iii) The consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization, statutory share exchange, or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company, the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, or the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity by the Company (each a "Business Combination"), unless such Business Combination is a "Non-Control Transaction." A "Non-Control Transaction" is a Business Combination immediately following which the following conditions are met: (A) the stockholders of the Company immediately before such Business Combination own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that as a result of such Business Combination owns the Company or all of substantially all of the Company's assets or stock either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) (the "Surviving Corporation") in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Company Voting Securities immediately before such Business Combination; 3
(B) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Surviving Corporation were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial Business Combination agreement; and (C) no person other than (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) the Surviving Corporation or its ultimate parent corporation, or (iii) any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Surviving Corporation's then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors; or (iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the outstanding Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, provided that if a Change of Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) and after such acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Voting Securities, then a Change of Control shall occur. (g) "Company" shall mean Regions Financial Corporation, its successors and assigns. (h) "Disability" shall mean that the Employee has become eligible to receive benefits under any group long-term disability plan or policy maintained by the Company or any of its Affiliates that is by its terms applicable to the Employee. (i) "Effective Date" shall mean the first date on which a Change of Control occurs. (j) "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence, after a Change of Control (or within six (6) months prior to a Change of Control if such occurrence (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control), of any of the following events or conditions: 4
(i) a material adverse change in the Employee's responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control (or immediately prior to the beginning of such six-month period, as the case may be), provided that "material adverse change" shall not include any change in Employee's title, lines of reporting, or internal job classification; (ii) a reduction in aggregate of the Employee's annual base salary and bonus below the aggregate of the Base Amount and the Bonus Amount; (iii) the Company requiring the Employee to be based at any location that is more than thirty-five (35) miles from the Employee's regular place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control (or immediately prior to the beginning of such six-month period, as the case may be); (iv) the failure by the Company to pay to the Employee any portion of the Employee's current compensation, or to pay to the Employee any portion of an installment of deferred compensation under any deferred compensation program of the Company in which the Employee participated, within seven (7) days of the date such compensation is due; (v) the taking of any action by the Company that results in a reduction in the Employee's aggregate level of benefits immediately prior to the Change of Control (or immediately prior to the beginning of such six-month period, as the case may be) under compensation plans or employee benefit plans in which the Employee participates (including any ongoing substitute or alternative plan), such that the reduction is material to the Employee's total compensation and benefits; or (vi) any failure of the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 8(c) of this Agreement. The Company shall have an opportunity to cure any claimed event of Good Reason within 30 days of receipt of Notice of Termination from the Employee. The Company shall notify the Employee of the timely cure of any claimed event of Good Reason and the manner in which such cure was effected, and any Notice of Termination delivered by the Employee based on such claimed Good Reason shall be deemed withdrawn. (k) "Notice of Termination" shall mean written notice, following a Change of Control, of termination of the Employee's employment signed by the Employee if to the Company or by a duly authorized officer of the Company if to the Employee, which indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon if termination is for Cause and which sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed 5
to provide the basis for termination of the Employee's employment under the provision so indicated. (l) "Termination Date" shall mean (i) in the case of the Employee's death, the date of the Employee's death, (ii) if the Employee's employment is terminated for Disability, thirty (30) days after Notice of Termination is given (provided that the Employee shall not have returned to the performance of the Employee's duties on a full-time basis during such thirty (30) day period), and (iii) if the Employee's employment is terminated for any other reason, the date specified in the Notice of Termination (which, in the case of a termination for Cause shall not be less than thirty (30) days, and in the case of a termination for Good Reason shall not be more than sixty (60) days, from the date such Notice of Termination is given). 2. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall commence as of the date hereof, and shall continue in effect for a two (2) year term unless extended as hereinafter provided. On each monthly anniversary date of this Agreement, the term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended for one additional month unless prior to any such monthly anniversary date, the Company shall give written notice to the Employee to fix the term of this Agreement to a definite two (2) year term from the date of such notice. Upon receipt of such notice by the Employee, no further automatic extensions shall occur, and this Agreement will terminate at the end of the fixed term. This Agreement shall automatically terminate upon the termination of the Employee's employment with the Company and its Affiliates under circumstances not involving a Change of Control. 3. Termination of Employment. If the Employee's employment with the Company and with its Affiliates is terminated within twenty-four (24) months following a Change of Control (or within six (6) months prior to a Change of Control if such termination (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control), the Employee shall be entitled to the following compensation and benefits: (a) If such termination of the Employee's employment is (i) by the Company for Cause or Disability, (ii) by reason of the Employee's death, or (iii) by the Employee other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay to the Employee the Employee's Accrued Compensation. (b) If such termination of the Employee's employment is (i) by the Company without Cause, or (ii) by the Employee for Good Reason, the Company shall pay to the Employee the aggregate of the Employee's Accrued Compensation plus an amount equal to two times the sum of the Employee's Base Amount and Bonus Amount. (c) The amounts provided for in Section 3(a) and 3(b) shall be paid in a single lump sum cash payment within thirty (30) days after the Employee's Termination Date; 6
provided that, if the Employee has elected a different payout date in a prior deferral election with respect to any Accrued Compensation consisting of compensation previously deferred by the Employee (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon), such deferred amounts shall be paid pursuant to the terms of such election. Notwithstanding the above, in the event the Employee is a "specified employee" at the time a payment, other than Accrued Compensation, is to be made under this Agreement, such payment shall be made on the date that is the later of: (1) the date that is six months after the Employee's separation from service with the Company, as determined in accordance with applicable Treasury regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code"); and (2) the date the payment would otherwise be made. For this purpose, "specified employee" shall mean a specified employee as defined in Treasury regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Code, with an identification date of December 31. Such designation shall be applicable for the period of April 1 though March 31 beginning after the identification date. (d) The severance pay and benefits provided for in this Section 3 shall be in lieu of any other severance pay to which the Employee shall be entitled under the Company's Severance Pay Plan or any other plan, agreement, or arrangement of the Company or any Affiliate. The Employee's entitlement to any other benefits (other than additional severance pay) shall be determined in accordance with the Company's employee benefit plans and other applicable programs and practices then in effect. 4. Excise Tax Limitation. (a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any benefit, payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether payable or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise) (a "Payment") would, if paid, be subject to the excise tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, then the Payments shall be modified or reduced to the extent necessary of avoid the imposition of the Excise Tax. Such reduction shall come from the cash Payment or Payments that are due earliest following termination of employment. (b) All determinations required to be made under this Section 4, including whether an Excise Tax would otherwise be imposed and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by Ernst & Young LLP or such other certified public accounting firm as may be designated by the Board (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee within 15 business days of the receipt of Notice of Termination from the Employee (not subject to contest), or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change of Control, the Board may appoint another nationally recognized accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm 7
hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Payments hereunder will have been unnecessarily limited by this Section 4 ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. The Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred, and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. 5. Nonexclusivity of Rights. Except as provided in Section 4 (Excise Tax Limitation), nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Employee's continuing or future participation in any employee benefit plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its Affiliates and for which the Employee may qualify, except as specifically provided herein. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates at or subsequent to the Termination Date shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. 6. Full Settlement. The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Employee or others. In no event shall the Employee be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Employee under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Employee obtains other employment. 7. Fees and Expenses. The Company agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses reasonably incurred by the Employee as a result of any contest by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee thereof; provided, however, that the Company shall not be liable for any such fees or expenses if a court determines that the position taken by the Employee with respect to such contest is not a reasonable position or is frivolous, and the Company shall not be liable for further fees or expenses incurred in any such contest beyond the time at which a reasonable person would or should know that the Employee's position is not reasonable or is frivolous. 8. Successors. (a) This Agreement is personal to the Employee and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Employee otherwise than by will 8
or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Employee's legal representatives. (b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. (c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise. 9. Miscellaneous. (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Alabama, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. (b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to the Employee: ___________________________ ___________________________ ___________________________ If to the Company: Regions Financial Corporation P. O. Box 10247 Birmingham, Alabama 35202 Attention: General Counsel or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee. 9
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. (d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation. (e) The Employee's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right the Employee or the Company may have hereunder, including, without limitation, the right of the Employee to terminate employment for Good Reason, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement. (f) The Employee and the Company acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between the Employee and the Company, the employment of the Employee by the Company is "at will" and, subject to Section 3 hereof, the Employee's employment may be terminated by either the Employee or the Company at any time, in which case the Employee shall have no further rights under this Agreement. (g) This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties hereto and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and covenants (except as otherwise provided herein) with respect to the subject matter hereof. This agreement may be amended or canceled only by mutual agreement of the parties and only in writing. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Employee has hereunto set the Employee's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written. EMPLOYEE _________________________________________ Name: ___________________________________ REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: _____________________________________ Name: ___________________________________ Title: __________________________________ 10

EXHIBIT 99.2 CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT AGREEMENT by and between Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and John M. Daniel (the "Employee"), dated as of the 16th day of December, 2005. WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes the possibility that a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined) of the Company could occur and that such an event could result in significant distraction of the Company's key personnel because of the uncertainties inherent in such a situation; and WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is essential and in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to be able to retain the services of the Employee notwithstanding the possibility of a Change of Control and to ensure the Employee's continued dedication and efforts in such an event without undue concern for the Employee's personal financial and employment security; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the respective agreements of the parties set forth herein, it is hereby agreed as follows: 1. Certain Definitions. (a) "Accrued Compensation" shall mean the sum of: (i) the Employee's annual base salary through the Termination Date, to the extent not theretofore paid, (ii) reimbursement (in accordance with the Company's expense reimbursement policy) for reasonable and necessary business expenses incurred by the Employee on behalf of the Company prior to the Termination Date, (iii) Employee's accrued and unused vacation pay (in accordance with the Company's vacation policy) to the extent not theretofore paid, and (iv) bonuses and incentive compensation to which the Employee is entitled under the terms of applicable bonus or incentive plans or awards maintained by the Company. (b) "Affiliate" shall mean any entity directly or indirectly controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company or any corporation or other entity acquiring, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all the assets and business of the Company, whether by operation of law or otherwise.
(c) "Base Amount" shall mean the Employee's annual base salary at the rate in effect at the date hereof or, if greater, at any time hereafter prior to the Effective Date of the Change of Control, determined without regard to any salary reduction or deferred compensation elections made by the Employee. (d) "Bonus Amount" shall mean the highest bonus paid or payable to Employee by the Company in respect of any of the three (3) full fiscal years ended prior to the Effective Date of the Change of Control. (e) "Cause" shall mean: (i) the willful and continued failure of the Employee to perform substantially the Employee's reasonably assigned duties with the Company or any of its Affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), which failure continued for a period of at least thirty (30) days after a written demand for substantial performance, signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company, has been delivered to the Employee specifying the manner in which the Employee has failed substantially to perform, or (ii) the Employee's breach of fiduciary duty involving personal profit, commission of a felony or a crime involving fraud or moral turpitude, or material breach of any provision of this Agreement, or (iii) the willful engaging by the Employee in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially injurious to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no termination of the Employee's employment shall be for Cause until (i) there shall have been delivered to the Employee a Notice of Termination , and (ii) within fifteen days thereafter, the Employee shall have been provided an opportunity to be heard in person by the Compensation Committee of the Board or a review panel appointed by the Compensation Committee of the Board. For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act, on the part of the Employee, shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was legal, proper, and in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority and directives given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. Notwithstanding anything set forth in this Agreement to the contrary, no failure to perform by the Employee after a Notice of Termination is given by the Employee to the Company shall constitute Cause for the purposes of this Agreement. 2
(f) "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (i) the acquisition by any "Person" (as the term "person" is used for the purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of direct or indirect beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors (the "Voting Securities"); or (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board, or the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, shall be an Incumbent Director, unless such individual is initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors ("Election Contest") or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board ("Proxy Contest"), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or (iii) The consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization, statutory share exchange, or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company, the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, or the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity by the Company (each a "Business Combination"), unless such Business Combination is a "Non-Control Transaction." A "Non-Control Transaction" is a Business Combination immediately following which the following conditions are met: (A) the stockholders of the Company immediately before such Business Combination own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that as a result of such Business Combination owns the Company or all of substantially all of the Company's assets or stock either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) (the "Surviving Corporation") in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Company Voting Securities immediately before such Business Combination; 3
(B) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Surviving Corporation were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial Business Combination agreement; and (C) no person other than (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) the Surviving Corporation or its ultimate parent corporation, or (iii) any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Surviving Corporation's then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors; or (iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the outstanding Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, provided that if a Change of Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) and after such acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Voting Securities, then a Change of Control shall occur. (g) "Company" shall mean Regions Financial Corporation, its successors and assigns. (h) "Disability" shall mean that the Employee has become eligible to receive benefits under any group long-term disability plan or policy maintained by the Company or any of its Affiliates that is by its terms applicable to the Employee. (i) "Effective Date" shall mean the first date on which a Change of Control occurs. (j) "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence, after a Change of Control (or within six (6) months prior to a Change of Control if such occurrence (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control), of any of the following events or conditions: 4
(i) a material adverse change in the Employee's responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control (or immediately prior to the beginning of such six-month period, as the case may be), provided that "material adverse change" shall not include any change in Employee's title, lines of reporting, or internal job classification; (ii) a reduction in aggregate of the Employee's annual base salary and bonus below the aggregate of the Base Amount and the Bonus Amount; (iii) the Company requiring the Employee to be based at any location that is more than thirty-five (35) miles from the Employee's regular place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control (or immediately prior to the beginning of such six-month period, as the case may be); (iv) the failure by the Company to pay to the Employee any portion of the Employee's current compensation, or to pay to the Employee any portion of an installment of deferred compensation under any deferred compensation program of the Company in which the Employee participated, within seven (7) days of the date such compensation is due; (v) the taking of any action by the Company that results in a reduction in the Employee's aggregate level of benefits immediately prior to the Change of Control (or immediately prior to the beginning of such six-month period, as the case may be) under compensation plans or employee benefit plans in which the Employee participates (including any ongoing substitute or alternative plan), such that the reduction is material to the Employee's total compensation and benefits; or (vi) any failure of the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 8(c) of this Agreement. The Company shall have an opportunity to cure any claimed event of Good Reason within 30 days of receipt of Notice of Termination from the Employee. The Company shall notify the Employee of the timely cure of any claimed event of Good Reason and the manner in which such cure was effected, and any Notice of Termination delivered by the Employee based on such claimed Good Reason shall be deemed withdrawn. (k) "Notice of Termination" shall mean written notice, following a Change of Control, of termination of the Employee's employment signed by the Employee if to the Company or by a duly authorized officer of the Company if to the Employee, which indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon if termination is for Cause and which sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed 5
to provide the basis for termination of the Employee's employment under the provision so indicated. (l) "Termination Date" shall mean (i) in the case of the Employee's death, the date of the Employee's death, (ii) if the Employee's employment is terminated for Disability, thirty (30) days after Notice of Termination is given (provided that the Employee shall not have returned to the performance of the Employee's duties on a full-time basis during such thirty (30) day period), and (iii) if the Employee's employment is terminated for any other reason, the date specified in the Notice of Termination (which, in the case of a termination for Cause shall not be less than thirty (30) days, and in the case of a termination for Good Reason shall not be more than sixty (60) days, from the date such Notice of Termination is given). 2. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall commence as of the date hereof, and shall continue in effect for a two (2) year term unless extended as hereinafter provided. On each monthly anniversary date of this Agreement, the term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended for one additional month unless prior to any such monthly anniversary date, the Company shall give written notice to the Employee to fix the term of this Agreement to a definite two (2) year term from the date of such notice. Upon receipt of such notice by the Employee, no further automatic extensions shall occur, and this Agreement will terminate at the end of the fixed term. This Agreement shall automatically terminate upon the termination of the Employee's employment with the Company and its Affiliates under circumstances not involving a Change of Control. 3. Termination of Employment. If the Employee's employment with the Company and with its Affiliates is terminated within thirty-six (36) months following a Change of Control (or within six (6) months prior to a Change of Control if such termination (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control), the Employee shall be entitled to the following compensation and benefits: (a) If such termination of the Employee's employment is (i) by the Company for Cause or Disability, (ii) by reason of the Employee's death, or (iii) by the Employee other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay to the Employee the Employee's Accrued Compensation. (b) If such termination of the Employee's employment is (i) by the Company without Cause, or (ii) by the Employee for Good Reason, the Company shall pay to the Employee the aggregate of the Employee's Accrued Compensation plus an amount equal to three times the sum of the Employee's Base Amount and Bonus Amount. (c) The amounts provided for in Section 3(a) and 3(b) shall be paid in a single lump sum cash payment within thirty (30) days after the Employee's Termination Date; 6
provided that, if the Employee has elected a different payout date in a prior deferral election with respect to any Accrued Compensation consisting of compensation previously deferred by the Employee (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon), such deferred amounts shall be paid pursuant to the terms of such election. Notwithstanding the above, in the event the Employee is a "specified employee" at the time a payment, other than Accrued Compensation, is to be made under this Agreement, such payment shall be made on the date that is the later of: (1) the date that is six months after the Employee's separation from service with the Company, as determined in accordance with applicable Treasury regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code"); and (2) the date the payment would otherwise be made. For this purpose, "specified employee" shall mean a specified employee as defined in Treasury regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Code, with an identification date of December 31. Such designation shall be applicable for the period of April 1 though March 31 beginning after the identification date. (d) The severance pay and benefits provided for in this Section 3 shall be in lieu of any other severance pay to which the Employee shall be entitled under the Company's Severance Pay Plan or any other plan, agreement, or arrangement of the Company or any Affiliate. The Employee's entitlement to any other benefits (other than additional severance pay) shall be determined in accordance with the Company's employee benefit plans and other applicable programs and practices then in effect. 4. Excise Tax Limitation. (a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any benefit, payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether payable or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise) (a "Payment") would, if paid, be subject to the excise tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, then the Payments shall be modified or reduced to the extent necessary of avoid the imposition of the Excise Tax. Such reduction shall come from the cash Payment or Payments that are due earliest following termination of employment. (b) All determinations required to be made under this Section 4, including whether an Excise Tax would otherwise be imposed and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by Ernst & Young LLP or such other certified public accounting firm as may be designated by the Board (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee within 15 business days of the receipt of Notice of Termination from the Employee (not subject to contest), or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change of Control, the Board may appoint another nationally recognized accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm 7
hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Payments hereunder will have been unnecessarily limited by this Section 4 ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. The Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred, and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. 5. Nonexclusivity of Rights. Except as provided in Section 4 (Excise Tax Limitation), nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Employee's continuing or future participation in any employee benefit plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its Affiliates and for which the Employee may qualify, except as specifically provided herein. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates at or subsequent to the Termination Date shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. 6. Full Settlement. The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Employee or others. In no event shall the Employee be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Employee under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Employee obtains other employment. 7. Fees and Expenses. The Company agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses reasonably incurred by the Employee as a result of any contest by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee thereof; provided, however, that the Company shall not be liable for any such fees or expenses if a court determines that the position taken by the Employee with respect to such contest is not a reasonable position or is frivolous, and the Company shall not be liable for further fees or expenses incurred in any such contest beyond the time at which a reasonable person would or should know that the Employee's position is not reasonable or is frivolous. 8. Successors. (a) This Agreement is personal to the Employee and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Employee otherwise than by will 8
or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Employee's legal representatives. (b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. (c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise. 9. Miscellaneous. (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Alabama, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. (b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to the Employee: [address omitted] ---------------------- ---------------------- If to the Company: Regions Financial Corporation P. O. Box 10247 Birmingham, Alabama 35202 Attention: General Counsel or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee. 9
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. (d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation. (e) The Employee's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right the Employee or the Company may have hereunder, including, without limitation, the right of the Employee to terminate employment for Good Reason, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement. (f) The Employee and the Company acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between the Employee and the Company, the employment of the Employee by the Company is "at will" and, subject to Section 3 hereof, the Employee's employment may be terminated by either the Employee or the Company at any time, in which case the Employee shall have no further rights under this Agreement. (g) This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties hereto and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and covenants (except as otherwise provided herein) with respect to the subject matter hereof. This agreement may be amended or canceled only by mutual agreement of the parties and only in writing. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Employee has hereunto set the Employee's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written. EMPLOYEE /s/ John M. Daniel Name: John M. Daniel REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: /s/ Harry Dinken Name: Harry Dinken Title: EVP Corp. HR Director December 20, 2005 10

EXHIBIT 99.3 Form of Career Award Agreement [As separately executed by William E. Askew, D. Bryan Jordan, Robert A. Goethe, Samuel E. Upchurch, Jr., and Steve R. Vinson] THIS CAREER AWARD AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made by and between Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") and the Executive named herein, effective as of the 20th day of December, 2005. WHEREAS, Executive is an important member of the Company's management team, and the Company desires to retain the services of Executive to assist the Company as it pursues growth and enhanced profitability; and WHEREAS, the Company desires to provide certain benefits to Executive as an inducement to encourage Executive to remain employed by the Company; and WHEREAS, the Company and Executive desire to restructure severance and change of control arrangements to provide for simplified change of control arrangements and enhanced severance benefits that are independent of change of control features. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual undertakings and agreements of the parties set forth herein, it is hereby agreed as follows: 1. Restricted Stock Award. On or before January 31, 2006, the Company will grant to Executive _______ [ conformed in Note 1 below] shares of restricted stock under and subject to one of the Company's long term incentive plans, having the following additional features: A. The restriction will lapse five (5) years from the date of grant, at which time unrestricted ownership will vest in Executive. If Executive voluntarily resigns employment during the restriction period, the restricted stock will revert to the Company. B. The restriction will lapse immediately upon death, disability, retirement at or after age 65 or retirement with written consent of the Company, or termination of employment by the Company without cause. C. The Company will pay to Executive all dividends payable on the restricted stock during the restriction period so long as Executive remains employed with the Company. The above grant of restricted stock is in addition to any equity and bonus awards to Executive pursuant to plans in which Executive now or in the future participates. 2. Acceleration of Unvested Stock Options. Upon the effective date of this Agreement, all unvested nonqualified stock options previously granted to Executive will be deemed vested and immediately exercisable. 3. Enhanced Severance Benefit. A. If Executive's employment hereafter is terminated by the Company without cause, and if Executive is not otherwise entitled to payment under the change of control agreement, the Company will pay to Executive, in addition to accrued
salary and benefits, a lump sum severance payment equal to two times Executive's annual base salary in effect on the date of termination. B. During the 5 year restricted period identified in paragraph 1.A hereof, any termination by Executive as a result of a reduction of base salary or the required relocation of the Executive's principal employment location to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from the Executive's principal employment location on the effective date of this Agreement shall be considered a termination of employment by the Company without cause for purposes of this Agreement. C. In the event the Company determines, in good faith, (1) that any payment or benefit under this Section 3 is subject to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, and (2) that Executive is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, with an identification date of December 31), any such payment or benefit shall be paid no earlier than six months after Executive's separation from service with the Company. 4. Change of Control Modification. The Company and Executive acknowledge and agree that the prior employment agreement between them is being replaced and superseded by a change of control agreement executed at the same time as this Agreement. Upon execution of the new change of control agreement, the parties will have no rights or obligations under the prior employment agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Executive and the Company stipulate and agree that, for purposes of Executive's prior employment agreement with the Company and notwithstanding the definition of "change of control" therein, the combination of Union Planters Corporation and former Regions Financial Corporation shall be deemed not to have constituted a "change of control." IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement to be effective as of the date first above stated. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION EXECUTIVE By:____________________________ _____________________________ Its: Authorized Officer Print or Type Name of Executive Date: December 20, 2005 Date: _______________________ [Note 1 William E. Askew -- 26,279 shares of restricted stock D. Bryan Jordan -- 28,299 shares of restricted stock Robert A. Goethe -- 24,009 shares of restricted stock Samuel E. Upchurch, Jr. -- 32,867 shares of restricted stock Steve R. Vinson -- 9,568 shares of restricted stock] 2

EXHIBIT 99.4 CAREER AWARD AGREEMENT THIS CAREER AWARD AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made by and between Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") and the Executive named herein, effective as of the 20th day of December, 2005. WHEREAS, Executive is an important member of the Company's management team, and the Company desires to retain the services of Executive to assist the Company as it pursues growth and enhanced profitability; and WHEREAS, the Company desires to provide certain benefits to Executive as an inducement to encourage Executive to remain employed by the Company; and WHEREAS, the Company and Executive desire to restructure severance and change of control arrangements to provide for simplified change of control arrangements and enhanced severance benefits that are independent of change of control features. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual undertakings and agreements of the parties set forth herein, it is hereby agreed as follows: 1. Restricted Stock Award. On or before January 31, 2006, the Company will grant to Executive 62,268 shares of restricted stock under and subject to one of the Company's long term incentive plans, having the following additional features: A. The restriction will lapse five (5) years from the date of grant, at which time unrestricted ownership will vest in Executive. If Executive retires prior to age 65, the restricted stock will revert to the Company. B. The restriction will lapse immediately upon death, disability, retirement at or after age 65 or with written consent of the Company, or termination of employment by the Company without cause. C. The Company will pay to Executive all dividends payable on the restricted stock during the restriction period so long as Executive remains employed with the Company. The above grant of restricted stock is in addition to any equity and bonus awards to Executive pursuant to plans in which Executive now or in the future participates. Provided Executive is still employed by the Company, the Company will grant Executive long term incentive awards in the discretion of the compensation committee. 2. Acceleration of Unvested Stock Options. Upon the effective date of this Agreement, all unvested nonqualified stock options previously granted to Executive will be deemed vested and immediately exerciseable. 3. Employment Agreement. For purposes of Executive's employment agreement with the Company and solely with reference to the "change of control" that resulted from the combination of Union Planters Corporation and former Regions Financial Corporation, Executive and the Company stipulate and agree that the provisions of the employment agreement applicable to termination for "good reason" (including without limitation the provisions of section 6(a)) are waived and deemed inoperative, except that:
A. Any termination by Executive as a result of a reduction of annual base salary and bonus remains subject to the employment agreement in full. B. Any termination by Executive as a result of a required relocation of the Executive's principal employment location to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from the Executive's principal employment location remain subject to the employment agreement in full. In the event the Company determines, in good faith, (1) that any payment or benefit under this Section 3 is subject to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, and (2) that Executive is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, with an identification date of December 31), any such payment or benefit shall be paid no earlier than six months after Executive's separation from service with the Company. 4. Retirement. The Company agrees that Executive is currently eligible for full retirement. If Executive retires, Executive will be eligible for retirement benefits in accordance with the terms of all applicable plans. In addition, to the extent retirement occurs at or after age 65: A. Any unvested stock options will vest and become exercisable on the retirement date, and all stock options will remain exercisable for the full period of their original term, except for any stock options identified by Executive in writing prior to attaining age 65, which will remain exercisable within ninety (90) days after retirement. B. Executive will retain all unvested restricted stock and any similar equity awards, which will vest on the retirement date. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement to be effective as of the date first above stated. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION EXECUTIVE By: /s/ Harry Dinken /s/ Richard D. Horsley ---------------------------- ---------------------------- Its: Authorized Officer Richard D. Horsley ---------------------------- Print or Type Name of Executive Date: December 20, 2005 Date: December 20, 2005 2

EXHIBIT 99.5 CAREER AWARD AGREEMENT THIS CAREER AWARD AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made by and between Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") and the Executive named herein, effective as of the 20th day of December, 2005. WHEREAS, Executive is an important member of the Company's management team, and the Company desires to retain the services of Executive to assist the Company as it pursues growth and enhanced profitability; and WHEREAS, the Company desires to provide certain benefits to Executive as an inducement to encourage Executive to remain employed by the Company; and WHEREAS, the Company and Executive desire to restructure severance and change of control arrangements to provide for simplified change of control arrangements and enhanced severance benefits that are independent of change of control features. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual undertakings and agreements of the parties set forth herein, it is hereby agreed as follows: 1. Restricted Stock Award. On or before January 31, 2006, the Company will grant to Executive 26,075 shares of restricted stock under and subject to one of the Company's long term incentive plans, having the following additional features: A. The restriction will lapse five (5) years from the date of grant, at which time unrestricted ownership will vest in Executive. If Executive voluntarily resigns employment during the restriction period prior to age 60, the restricted stock will revert to the Company. B. The restriction will lapse immediately upon death, disability, retirement at or after age 60 or retirement with written consent of the Company, or termination of employment by the Company without cause. C. The Company will pay to Executive all dividends payable on the restricted stock during the restriction period so long as Executive remains employed with the Company. The above grant of restricted stock is in addition to any equity and bonus awards to Executive pursuant to plans in which Executive now or in the future participates. 2. Acceleration of Unvested Stock Options. Upon the effective date of this Agreement, all unvested nonqualified stock options previously granted to Executive will be deemed vested and immediately exercisable. 3. Enhanced Severance Benefit. A. If Executive's employment hereafter is terminated by the Company without cause, and if Executive is not otherwise entitled to payment under the change of control agreement, the Company will pay to Executive, in addition to accrued salary and benefits, a lump sum severance payment equal to two times Executive's annual base salary in effect on the date of termination. B. During the 5 year restricted period identified in paragraph 1.A hereof, any termination by Executive as a result of a reduction of base salary or the
required relocation of the Executive's principal employment location to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from the Executive's principal employment location on the effective date of this Agreement shall be considered a termination of employment by the Company without cause for purposes of this Agreement. C. In the event the Company determines, in good faith, (1) that any payment or benefit under this Section 3 is subject to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, and (2) that Executive is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, with an identification date of December 31), any such payment or benefit shall be paid no earlier than six months after Executive's separation from service with the Company. 4. Change of Control Modification. The Company and Executive acknowledge and agree that the prior employment agreement between them is being replaced and superseded by a change of control agreement executed at the same time as this Agreement. Upon execution of the new change of control agreement, the parties will have no rights or obligations under the prior employment agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Executive and the Company stipulate and agree that, for purposes of Executive's prior employment agreement with the Company and notwithstanding the definition of "change of control" therein, the combination of Union Planters Corporation and former Regions Financial Corporation shall be deemed not to have constituted a "change of control." 5. Retirement. The Company agrees that Executive will be eligible for full retirement at or after age 60. If Executive retires at or after age 60: A. Executive will be eligible for retirement benefits in accordance with the terms of all applicable plans. B. Any unvested stock options will vest and become exercisable on the retirement date, and all stock options will remain exercisable for the full period of their original term, except for any stock options identified by Executive in writing prior to attaining age 60, which will be remain exercisable within ninety (90) days after retirement. C. Executive will retain all unvested restricted stock and any similar equity awards, which will vest on the retirement date. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement to be effective as of the date first above stated. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION EXECUTIVE By: /s/ Harry Dinken /s/ David C. Gordon ------------------------- ----------------------------- Its: Authorized Officer David C. Gordon ----------------------------- Print or Type Name of Executive Date: December 20, 2005 Date: December 20, 2005 2

EXHIBIT 99.6 CAREER AWARD AGREEMENT THIS CAREER AWARD AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made by and between Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") and the Executive named herein, effective as of the 20th day of December, 2005. WHEREAS, Executive is an important member of the Company's management team, and the Company desires to retain the services of Executive to assist the Company as it pursues growth and enhanced profitability; and WHEREAS, the Company desires to provide certain benefits to Executive as an inducement to encourage Executive to remain employed by the Company; and WHEREAS, the Company and Executive desire to restructure severance and change of control arrangements to provide for simplified change of control arrangements and enhanced severance benefits that are independent of change of control features. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual undertakings and agreements of the parties set forth herein, it is hereby agreed as follows: 1. Restricted Stock Award. On or before January 31, 2006, the Company will grant to Executive 38,605 shares of restricted stock under and subject to one of the Company's long term incentive plans, having the following additional features: A. The restriction will lapse five (5) years from the date of grant, at which time unrestricted ownership will vest in Executive. If Executive voluntarily resigns employment during the restriction period prior to December 31, 2008, the restricted stock will revert to the Company. B. The restriction will lapse immediately upon death, disability, retirement on or after December 31, 2008 or retirement with written consent of the Company, or termination of employment by the Company without cause. C. The Company will pay to Executive all dividends payable on the restricted stock during the restriction period so long as Executive remains employed with the Company. The above grant of restricted stock is in addition to any equity and bonus awards to Executive pursuant to plans in which Executive now or in the future participates. 2. Acceleration of Unvested Stock Options. Upon the effective date of this Agreement, all unvested nonqualified stock options previously granted to Executive will be deemed vested and immediately exercisable. 3. Enhanced Severance Benefit. A. If Executive's employment hereafter is terminated by the Company without cause, and if Executive is not otherwise entitled to payment under the change of control agreement, the Company will pay to Executive, in addition to accrued salary and benefits, a lump sum severance payment equal to two times Executive's annual base salary in effect on the date of termination. B. During the 5 year restricted period identified in paragraph 1.A hereof, any termination by Executive as a result of a reduction of base salary or the
required relocation of the Executive's principal employment location to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from the Executive's principal employment location on the effective date of this Agreement shall be considered a termination of employment by the Company without cause for purposes of this Agreement. C. In the event the Company determines, in good faith, (1) that any payment or benefit under this Section 3 is subject to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, and (2) that Executive is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, with an identification date of December 31), any such payment or benefit shall be paid no earlier than six months after Executive's separation from service with the Company. 4. Change of Control Modification. The Company and Executive acknowledge and agree that the prior employment agreement between them is being replaced and superseded by a change of control agreement executed at the same time as this Agreement. Upon execution of the new change of control agreement, the parties will have no rights or obligations under the prior employment agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Executive and the Company stipulate and agree that, for purposes of Executive's prior employment agreement with the Company and notwithstanding the definition of "change of control" therein, the combination of Union Planters Corporation and former Regions Financial Corporation shall be deemed not to have constituted a "change of control." 5. Retirement. The Company agrees that Executive will be eligible for full retirement on or after December 31, 2008. If Executive retires on or after such date, Executive will be eligible for retirement benefits in accordance with the terms of all applicable plans. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement to be effective as of the date first above stated. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION EXECUTIVE By: /s/ Harry Dinken /s/ Peter D. Miller ------------------------ ---------------------------- Its: Authorized Officer Peter D. Miller ---------------------------- Print or Type Name of Executive Date: December 20, 2005 Date: December 20, 2005 2

EXHIBIT 99.7 Career Award Agreement THIS CAREER AWARD AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made by and between Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") and the Executive named herein, effective as of the 20th day of December, 2005. WHEREAS, Executive is an important member of the Company's management team, and the Company desires to retain the services of Executive to assist the Company as it pursues growth and enhanced profitability; and WHEREAS, the Company desires to provide certain benefits to Executive as an inducement to encourage Executive to remain employed by the Company; and WHEREAS, the Company and Executive desire to restructure severance and change of control arrangements to provide for simplified change of control arrangements and enhanced severance benefits that are independent of change of control features. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual undertakings and agreements of the parties set forth herein, it is hereby agreed as follows: 1. Restricted Stock Award. On or before January 31, 2006, the Company will grant to Executive 13,378 shares of restricted stock under and subject to one of the Company's long term incentive plans, having the following additional features: A. The restriction will lapse five (5) years from the date of grant, at which time unrestricted ownership will vest in Executive. If Executive voluntarily resigns employment during the restriction period, the restricted stock will revert to the Company. B. The restriction will lapse immediately upon death, disability, retirement at or after age 65 or retirement with written consent of the Company, or termination of employment by the Company without cause. C. The Company will pay to Executive all dividends payable on the restricted stock during the restriction period so long as Executive remains employed with the Company. The above grant of restricted stock is in addition to any equity and bonus awards to Executive pursuant to plans in which Executive now or in the future participates. 2. Acceleration of Unvested Stock Options. Upon the effective date of this Agreement, all unvested nonqualified stock options previously granted to Executive will be deemed vested and immediately exercisable. 3. Enhanced Severance Benefit. A. If Executive's employment hereafter is terminated by the Company without cause, and if Executive is not otherwise entitled to payment under the change of control agreement, the Company will pay to Executive, in addition to accrued salary and benefits, a lump sum severance payment equal to Executive's annual base salary in effect on the date of termination.
B. During the 5 year restricted period identified in paragraph 1.A hereof, any termination by Executive as a result of a reduction of base salary or the required relocation of the Executive's principal employment location to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from the Executive's principal employment location on the effective date of this Agreement shall be considered a termination of employment by the Company without cause for purposes of this Agreement. C. In the event the Company determines, in good faith, (1) that any payment or benefit under this Section 3 is subject to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, and (2) that Executive is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, with an identification date of December 31), any such payment or benefit shall be paid no earlier than six months after Executive's separation from service with the Company. 4. Change of Control Modification. The Company and Executive acknowledge and agree that the prior change of control agreement between them is being replaced and superseded by a change of control agreement executed at the same time as this Agreement. Upon execution of the new change of control agreement, the parties will have no rights or obligations under the prior change of control agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Executive and the Company stipulate and agree that, for purposes of Executive's prior change of control agreement with the Company and notwithstanding the definition of "change of control" therein, the combination of Union Planters Corporation and former Regions Financial Corporation shall be deemed not to have constituted a "change of control." IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement to be effective as of the date first above stated. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION EXECUTIVE By: /s/ Harry Dinken /s/ Andrew W. Stein ------------------------ ------------------------ Its: Authorized Officer ANDREW W. STEIN ------------------------ Print or Type Name of Executive Date: December 20, 2005 Date: December 20, 2005

EXHIBIT 99.8 Form of REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION CAREER AWARD SEVERANCE ARRANGEMENT EFFECTIVE AS OF DECEMBER 20, 2005 PREAMBLE In connection with the Career Award Agreements entered into between Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") and certain employees of Regions or its affiliates, Regions hereby establishes the Career Award Severance Arrangement (referred to hereinafter as the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to provide rules, procedures and guidelines for the administration of Career Award Agreements entered into by Regions with certain executives on and after December 20, 2005. The Career Award Agreements and this Plan are intended to satisfy applicable provisions of Section 409A of the Internal revenue Code and the regulations thereunder. In the event of any ambiguity, any provision of this Plan or any Career Award Agreement shall be interpreted in the manner that meets the applicable requirements of Section 409A so as to avoid the imposition of excise taxes and other penalties. To the extent that the Career Award Agreements provide for Regions to exercise discretion or require Regions' future permission (for example, with respect to early retirement) such discretion or future permission will be exercised or granted as specified in this Plan. Regions reserves the right to amend this Plan at any time, with or without advance notice to the Eligible Employees. 1. ELIGIBILITY. Any employee of Regions or its affiliates who executes a Career Award Agreement with Regions effective on or after December 20, 2005 (referred to herein as "Eligible Employee") is covered by the Plan. 2. ELECTION TO RECEIVE SEVERANCE BENEFITS. Execution of a Career Award Agreement constitutes an election to receive severance benefits under the Career Award Program. 3. SEVERANCE BENEFITS. An Eligible Employee will receive severance benefits in accordance with his Career Award Agreement and shall not be eligible for any other severance or other similar benefits under any other generally applicable severance plan or arrangement maintained or sponsored by Regions or any of its affiliates. An Eligible Employee's execution of the Career Award Agreement is deemed to be a waiver of any rights he might otherwise have had under any other generally applicable severance plan or arrangement.
4. DISABILITY, RETIREMENT, AND TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT WITHOUT CAUSE. Disability shall mean total and permanent disability as determined under the long-term disability program sponsored by Regions (which may include a group long-term disability plan or policy maintained by one of its affiliates that is by its terms applicable to the Eligible Employee). Retirement shall mean termination of employment on or after normal retirement date (which is age 65) or, with the consent of Regions, on or after early retirement date (which is the later of age 55 and completion of ten years of service). It is the policy of Regions to consent to requests for early retirement (as defined above) under the Career Award Agreement on a case-by-case basis considering all business conditions at the time and the standing of the Eligible Employee. Termination of employment with cause shall mean termination by Regions due to a material violation of (i) the Regions code of business conduct and ethics (ii) the Participant's fiduciary duties to Regions, or (iii) any law, provided such violation has materially harmed Regions. 5. ADMINISTRATION. The Administrator of the Plan shall be the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which may delegate administrative responsibility to a committee or an individual. Procedures for claims and appeals shall be the procedures adopted for such purposes by the Benefits Administration Committee. 6. NO GUARANTEE OF EMPLOYMENT. Nothing contained in the Plan shall be construed as a contract of employment between Regions and any individual, or as a right of any individual to be continued in the employment of Regions, or as a limitation of the right of Regions to discharge or otherwise modify the employment status of any individual, with or without cause. 7. UNFUNDED OBLIGATION OF REGIONS. This Plan shall in no way be interpreted to require Regions to transfer any amounts to a third party trustee or otherwise hold any amounts in trust or escrow or in any way fund any benefits payable hereunder. Except to the extent Regions determines otherwise, the obligation to pay any amounts pursuant to this Plan shall be interpreted as an obligation to pay only those amounts and provide only those benefits provided for in the Career Award Agreement at the time and under the conditions prescribed. 8. WITHHOLDING. Regions may withhold from any amounts payable under this Plan such federal, state or local taxes, as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation. 9. NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARY. The right to receive any benefits under this Plan shall not be transferred, assigned or pledged except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. The beneficiary of any benefits receivable hereunder shall be the estate of the Employee. 2
10. APPLICABLE LAW. This Plan shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of Alabama, without reference to principles of conflict of laws, except to the extent superseded by Federal law. 11. EFFECTIVE DATE. The effective date of this Plan shall be December 20, 2005. 12. 409A PROVISION FOR SPECIFIED EMPLOYEES. In the event the Company determines, in good faith, (1) that any payment or benefit under the Career Award Agreement is subject to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, and (2) that the Eligible Employee is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, with an identification date of December 31), any such payment or benefit shall be paid no earlier than six months after Eligible Employee's separation from service with the Company. Executed this the _______ day of _____________________, 2005. Regions Financial Corporation ---------------------------------- By: -------------------------------- Its: ------------------------------- 3

EXHIBIT 99.9 Form of INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT under the REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION 1999 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Grant # _________ Optionee: _________ SS# _________ Number Shares Subject to Option: _________ Exercise Price per Share _________ Date of Grant _________ 1. Grant of Option. Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") hereby grants to the Optionee named above (the "Optionee"), under the Regions Financial Corporation 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), an Incentive Stock Option to purchase, on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this "Option Agreement"), the number of shares indicated above of the Company's Common Stock (the "Stock"), at the exercise price per share set forth above (the "Option"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned such terms in the Plan. 2. Vesting of Option. Unless the exercisability of the Option is accelerated in accordance with Article 13 of the Plan, the Option shall vest (become exercisable) according to the following schedule: shares on shares on shares on 3. Period of Option and Limitations on Right to Exercise. The Option will, to the extent not previously exercised, lapse under the earliest of the following circumstances; provided, however, that the Committee may, prior to the lapse of the Option under the circumstances described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, provide in writing that the Option will extend until a later date, but if Option is exercised after the dates specified in paragraph (b), (c), and (d) below, it will automatically become a Non-Qualified Stock Option: (a) The Option shall lapse as of 5:00 p.m., Central Time, on the seventh anniversary of the date of grant (the "Expiration Date"). 1
(b) The Option shall lapse three months after the Optionee's termination of employment for any reason other than the Optionee's death or Disability; provided, however, that if the Optionee's employment is terminated by the Company for cause or by the Optionee without the consent of the Company, the Option shall lapse immediately. (c) If the Optionee's employment terminates by reason of Disability, the Option shall lapse one year after the date of the Optionee's termination of employment. (d) If the Optionee dies while employed, or during the three month period described in subsection (b) above or during the one year period described in subsection (c) above and before the Option otherwise lapses, the Option shall lapse one year after the date of the Optionee's death. Upon the Optionee's death, the Option may be exercised by the Optionee's beneficiary. If the Optionee or his beneficiary exercises an Option after termination of employment, the Option may be exercised only with respect to the shares that were otherwise vested on the Optionee's termination of employment (including vesting by acceleration in accordance with Article 13 of the Plan). 4. Exercise of Option. The Option shall be exercised by written notice directed to the Corporate Personnel Department of the Company at its offices in Birmingham, Alabama, in such form as the Committee may approve. Such written notice shall be accompanied by full payment in cash, shares of Stock previously acquired by the Optionee, or any combination thereof, for the number of shares specified in such written notice; provided, however, that if shares of Stock are used to pay the exercise price, such shares must have been held by the Optionee for at least six months. The Fair Market Value of the surrendered Stock as of the date of the exercise shall be determined in valuing Stock used in payment of the exercise price. In the sole discretion of the Company, the Option may be exercised through a broker in a so-called "cashless exercise" whereby the broker advances the exercise price to the Company on behalf of the Optionee and sells a sufficient portion of the Option shares to recover the advance; provided that in all instances a cashless exercise must comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including without limitation Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and applicable securities laws and regulations. Subject to the terms of this Option Agreement, the Option may be exercised at any time and without regard to any other option held by the Optionee to purchase stock of the Company. 5. Limitation of Rights. The Option does not confer to the Optionee or the Optionee's personal representative any rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until shares of Stock are in fact issued to such person in connection with the exercise of the Option. Nothing in this Option Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate the Optionee's employment at any time, nor confer upon the Optionee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary. 2
6. Stock Reserve. The Company shall at all times during the term of this Option Agreement reserve and keep available such number of shares of Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Option Agreement. 7. Optionee's Covenant. The Optionee hereby agrees to use his best efforts to provide services to the Company in a workmanlike manner and to promote the Company's interests. 8. Restrictions on Transfer and Pledge. The Option may not be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary, or be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of the Optionee to any other party other than the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary. The Option is not assignable or transferable by the Optionee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. The Option may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by the Optionee. 9. Restrictions on Issuance of Shares. If at any time the Board shall determine in its discretion, that listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Stock covered by the Option upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition to the exercise of the Option, the Option may not be exercised in whole or in part unless and until such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Board. 10. Plan Controls. The terms contained in the Plan are incorporated into and made a part of this Option Agreement and this Option Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Plan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of this Option Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall be controlling and determinative. 11. Successors. This Option Agreement shall be binding upon any successor of the Company, in accordance with the terms of this Option Agreement and the Plan. 12. Severability. If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Option Agreement are invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Option Agreement will be construed and enforced as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been included. 13. Notice. Notices and communications under this Option Agreement must be in writing and either personally delivered or sent by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notices to the Company must be addressed to: Regions Financial Corporation 105 Vulcan Road Second Floor Birmingham, AL 35209 3
or any other address designated by the Company in a written notice to the Optionee. Notices to the Optionee will be directed to the address of the Optionee then currently on file with the Company, or at any other address given by the Optionee in a written notice to the Company. 14. Interpretation. It is the intent of the parties hereto that the Option qualify for incentive stock option treatment pursuant to, and to the extent permitted by, Section 422 of the Code. All provisions hereof are intended to have, and shall be construed to have, such meanings as are set forth in applicable provisions of the Code and Treasury Regulations to allow the Option to so qualify. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Regions Financial Corporation, acting by and through its duly authorized officers, has caused this Option Agreement to be executed, and the Optionee has executed this Option Agreement, all as of the day and year first above written. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: -------------------------- Name: ________________________ Title: _______________________ OPTIONEE: ______________________________ 4

EXHIBIT 99.10 FORM OF NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT under the REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION 1999 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Grant # _________ Optionee: _________ SS# _________ Number Shares Subject to Option: _________ Exercise Price per Share: _________ Date of Grant: _________ 1. Grant of Option. Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") hereby grants to the Optionee named above (the "Optionee"), under the Regions Financial Corporation 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), a Non-Qualified Stock Option to purchase, on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this "Option Agreement"), the number of shares indicated above of the Company's Common Stock (the "Stock"), at the exercise price per share set forth above (the "Option"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned such terms in the Plan. 2. Vesting of Option. Unless the exercisability of the Option is accelerated in accordance with Article 13 of the Plan, the Option shall vest (become exercisable) according to the following schedule: shares on shares on shares on 3. Period of Option and Limitations on Right to Exercise. The Option will, to the extent not previously exercised, lapse under the earliest of the following circumstances; provided, however, that the Committee may, prior to the lapse of the Option under the circumstances described in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, provide in writing that the Option will extend until a later date: (a) The Option shall lapse as of 5:00 p.m., Central Time, on the seventh anniversary of the date of grant (the "Expiration Date"). (b) The Option shall lapse three months after the Optionee's termination of employment for any reason other than the Optionee's death or Disability; provided,
however, that if the Optionee's employment is terminated by the Company for cause or by the Optionee without the consent of the company, the Option shall lapse immediately. (c) If the Optionee's employment terminates by reason of Disability, the Option shall lapse one year after the date of the Optionee's termination of employment. (d) If the Optionee dies while employed, or during the three-month period described in subsection (b) above or during the one-year period described in subsection (c) above and before the Option otherwise lapses, the Option shall lapse one year after the date of the Optionee's death. Upon the Optionee's death, the Option may be exercised by the Optionee's beneficiary. If the Optionee or his beneficiary exercises an Option after termination of employment, the Option may be exercised only with respect to the shares that were otherwise vested on the Optionee's termination of employment (including vesting by acceleration in accordance with Article 13 of the Plan). 4. Exercise of Option. The Option shall be exercised by written notice directed to the Corporate Personnel Department of the Company at its offices in Birmingham, Alabama, in such form as the Committee may approve. Such written notice shall be accompanied by full payment in cash, shares of Stock previously acquired by the Optionee, or any combination thereof, for the number of shares specified in such written notice; provided, however, that if shares of Stock are used to pay the exercise price, such shares must have been held by the Optionee for at least six months. The Fair Market Value of the surrendered Stock as of the date of the exercise shall be determined in valuing Stock used in payment of the exercise price. In the sole discretion of the Company, the Option may be exercised through a broker in a so-called "cashless exercise" whereby the broker advances the exercise price to the Company on behalf of the Optionee and sells a sufficient portion of the Option shares to recover the advance; provided that in all instances a cashless exercise must comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including without limitation Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and applicable securities laws and regulations. Subject to the terms of this Option Agreement, the Option may be exercised at any time and without regard to any other option held by the Optionee to purchase stock of the Company. 5. Limitation of Rights. The Option does not confer to the Optionee or the Optionee's personal representative any rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until shares of Stock are in fact issued to such person in connection with the exercise of the Option. Nothing in this Option Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate the Optionee's employment at any time, nor confer upon the Optionee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary. 6. Stock Reserve. The Company shall at all times during the term of this Option Agreement reserve and keep available such number of shares of Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Option Agreement. 2
7. Optionee's Covenant. The Optionee hereby agrees to use his best efforts to provide services to the Company in a workmanlike manner and to promote the Company's interests. 8. Restrictions on Transfer and Pledge. The Option may not be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary, or be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of the Optionee to any other party other than the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary. The Option is not assignable or transferable by the Optionee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a domestic relations order that would satisfy Section 414(p)(1)(A) of the Code; provided, however, that the Committee may (but need not) permit other transfers where the Committee concludes that such transferability is appropriate and desirable, taking into account any factors deemed relevant, including without limitation, state or federal tax or securities laws applicable to transferable options. The Option may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by the Optionee or any permitted transferee. 9. Restrictions on Issuance of Shares. If at any time the Board shall determine in its discretion, that listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Stock covered by the Option upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition to the exercise of the Option, the Option may not be exercised in whole or in part unless and until such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Board. 10. Plan Controls. The terms contained in the Plan are incorporated into and made a part of this Option Agreement and this Option Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Plan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of this Option Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall be controlling and determinative. 11. Successors. This Option Agreement shall be binding upon any successor of the Company, in accordance with the terms of this Option Agreement and the Plan. 12. Severability. If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Option Agreement are invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Option Agreement will be construed and enforced as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been included. 13. Notice. Notices and communications under this Option Agreement must be in writing and either personally delivered or sent by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notices to the Company must be addressed to: Regions Financial Corporation 105 Vulcan Road Second Floor Birmingham, AL 35209
or any other address designated by the Company in a written notice to the Optionee. Notices to the Optionee will be directed to the address of the Optionee then currently on file with the Company, or at any other address given by the Optionee in a written notice to the Company. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION, acting by and through its duly authorized officers, has caused this Option Agreement to be executed, and the Optionee has executed this Option Agreement, all as of the day and year first above written. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: ---------------------------- Name: __________________________ Title: _________________________ OPTIONEE: ________________________________ 4

EXHIBIT 99.11 Form of REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION 1999 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT THIS Agreement made and entered into as of _____________ by and between Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and SS# 111-22-3333 W I T N E S S E T H : In consideration of mutual promises and covenants made herein and the mutual benefits to be derived herefrom, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. Grant of Restricted Shares. (a) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement and to the provisions of the Regions Financial Corporation 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Company hereby grants to the Employee _______ shares of Restricted Stock, par value $.625 per share ("Common Stock") of the Company (the "Restricted Shares"). Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan. (b) Subject to Section 3, certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares shall be issued by the Company and registered in the name of the Employee on the stock transfer books of the Company. However, certificates issued with respect to Restricted Shares shall be held by the Company in escrow under the terms hereof. Such certificates shall bear the legend set forth in subsection (d) below or such other appropriate legend as the Committee shall determine, which legend shall be removed only if and when the Restricted Shares vest as provided herein, at which time the certificates shall be delivered to the Employee. As a condition to the issuance of Restricted Shares hereunder, the Employee shall deliver to the Company such stock powers, duly endorsed in blank, as the Committee may require. Upon the issuance of Restricted Shares hereunder, the Employee shall be entitled to vote the Restricted Shares, and shall be entitled to receive, free of all restrictions, all cash dividends. (c) In order to comply with any applicable securities laws, the Company may require the Employee (i) to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company (including a written and signed representation letter) to the effect that the Restricted Shares 1
were acquired for investment only and not for resale or distribution and (ii) to agree that the Restricted Shares shall only be sold by the Employee following registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or pursuant to an exemption therefrom. (d) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, any certificate issued in respect of the Restricted Shares prior to the lapse of any outstanding restrictions relating thereto shall bear the following legend: This certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions, including the forfeiture provisions and restrictions against transfer (the "Restrictions"), contained in the Regions Financial Corporation 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan and an agreement entered into between the registered owner and the Company. Any attempt to dispose of these shares in contravention of the applicable restrictions, including by way of sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or otherwise, shall be null and void and without effect. 2. Vesting. (a) If Grantee remains in the continuous employment of the company through the date or dates indicated, the Restricted Stock will become non-forfeitable (i.e., "vest") to the extent indicated: If Employment number of the Restricted Continues through then Shares which vests is _________ __________ _________ __________ _________ __________ Such vesting will be cumulative and will occur at the close of business on the applicable date (or next business day) above. 3. Forfeiture. If Grantee's employment with the Company is terminated for any reason during the Restricted Period, all shares still subject to restriction will be forfeited by the Grantee to the Company on the date of such termination. If, however, Grantee's employment in involuntarily terminated (other than for cause) as outlined in (Section 4 and Section 5), the committee may, in its sole discretion, waive in whole or in part, any or all remaining restrictions with respect to the Grantee's shares of Restricted Stock. If a performance goal, as outlined in (Section 13.12), during the applicable restriction period is not met, all applicable shares shall be forfeited and reacquired by the Company.
4. Full Acceleration of Benefits. All Restricted Shares granted pursuant to this Agreement that are non-vested shall become immediately vested and nonforfeitable upon the occurrence of any one or more of the following: (a) the Employee's death; (b) the Employee's disability (as determined by the Committee); or, (b) any event or the taking of any action (including, but not limited to, events or actions under Article 13 of the Plan dealing with Changes in Control) that results under the Plan in the elimination or lapsing of restrictions on the Restricted Shares. 5. Partial Acceleration of Benefits If the Employee takes normal or early retirement under the Company's defined benefit pension plan prior to the third anniversary of the date of the Award, a portion of the Employee's Restricted Shares, to the extent not previously vested pursuant to any other provision of this Agreement or the Plan, shall become immediately vested and nonforfeitable. The portion that becomes vested and nonforfeitable shall equal the number of Restricted Shares granted as of the Award Date times the ratio of (i) the number of full months that have elapsed from the date of the Award to the date of the Employee's retirement, to (ii), 36. 6. Nontransferability of Restricted Shares. The Restricted Shares may not be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary, nor be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of such Employee to any other party other than the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary except as otherwise permitted under the Plan. 7. No Right to Continued Employment. Nothing in this Agreement of the plan shall confer upon the Employee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or Parent or Subsidiary to terminate such employment at any time. 8. Withholding. 3
The Employee shall pay to the Company promptly upon request, and in any event at the time the Employee recognizes taxable income in respect of the Restricted Shares, an amount equal to the taxes the Company determines it is required to withhold under applicable tax laws with respect to the Restricted Shares. Such payment shall be made in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock already owned or otherwise issuable upon the lapse of restrictions, or in a combination of such methods, as determined according to the terms of the Plan. The Employee shall promptly notify the Company of any election made pursuant of Section 83(b) of the Code. 9. Effect of Certain Changes. The number of Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall be proportionately adjusted by the Committee to the extent provided for in Article 14 of the Plan. 10. Rights as a Stockholder. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or in the Plan, the Employee shall have all rights of a shareholder with respect to the Employee's Restricted Shares (including the right to vote such shares, the right to receive all cash dividends, and the right to exercise any rights or warrants issued in respect of such shares). 11. Other Restrictions. The vesting of each Restricted Share shall be subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that (i) the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state of federal law, or (ii) the consent or approval of any government regulatory body, or (iii) an agreement by the Employee with respect to the disposition of shares of Common Stock, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, such exercise or the delivery or purchase of shares pursuant thereto, then in any such event, such vesting shall not be effective unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee. 12. Notices. Any notices to be given under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Company at Regions Financial Corporation, 417 20th Street North 12th Floor Birmingham, AL 35203, Attention: General Counsel, and to the Employee at the address set forth above, or at such other address as either party may hereafter designate in writing to the other. 13. Effect of Agreement.
Except as otherwise provided hereunder, this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Company. 14. Laws Applicable to Construction. This Agreement has been granted, executed and delivered in the State of Alabama, and the interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Alabama, as applied to contracts executed in and performed wholly within the State of Alabama. 15. Conflicts and Interpretation. If there is any conflict between this Agreement and the Plan, or if there is any ambiguity in this agreement, any term which is not defined in this Agreement, or any matter as to which this Agreement is silent, in any such case the Plan shall govern including, without limitation, the provisions thereof pursuant to which the Committee has the power, among others, to (i) interpret the Plan, (ii) prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and (iii), make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. 16. Headings. The headings of paragraphs herein are included solely for convenience or reference and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any of the provisions of this Agreement. 17. Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified, amended or waived in any manner except by an instrument or writing signed by both parties hereto. The waiver by either party of compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be continued as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by such party of a provision of this Agreement. 18. No Liability for Good Faith Business Acts or Omissions. Employee recognizes and agrees that the Committee, the Board of Directors of the Company, or the officers, agents or employees of the Company, in their oversight and conduct of the business and affairs of the Company, may in good faith cause the Company to act, or to omit to act, in a manner that may, directly or indirectly, prevent the Restricted Shares from vesting. No provision of this Agreement will be interpreted or construed to impose any liability upon the Company, the Committee, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company or any officer, agent or employee of the Company, for any forfeiture 5
of Restricted Stock that may result, directly or indirectly, from any such action or omission. 19. Complete Agreement. This instrument sets forth the entire agreement of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes and replaces all prior agreements and understandings with respect to such subject matter. The parties hereto have made no agreements, representations or warranties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement which are not set forth herein IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by a duly authorized officer and the Employee has hereunto set this hand. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: ---------------------------- Name: __________________________ Title: _________________________ OPTIONEE: ________________________________


