FILE:RF/RF-8K-20051014070116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 14, 2005 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 0-6159 63-0589368 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation)
417 North 20th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35203 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (205) 944-1300 N/A (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE In accordance with general instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the following information is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. On October 14, 2005, the registrant Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release reporting on its results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. The press release, with its accompanying financial supplement, is included in this report as exhibit 99.1. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The exhibit listed in the exhibit index relates to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 and, in accordance with general instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Page 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Registrant) By: /s/ Ronald C. Jackson ------------------------------------ Ronald C. Jackson Senior Vice President and Comptroller Date: October 14, 2005 Page 3
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Page 4

Exhibit 99.1 (REGIONS FINANCIAL CORP. (SM) LOGO) Oct. 14, 2005 REGIONS ACHIEVES STRONG THIRD-QUARTER PROFIT GAIN, CONTINUES SUCCESSFUL INTEGRATION BIRMINGHAM, ALA. - Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF) today announced highlights for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2005, including: - Earnings of 55 cents per diluted share or 61 cents excluding 6 cents in merger and other charges, up 3.4 percent linked quarter (see p. 4 for additional details) - Successful, on-schedule bank branch conversions - Higher net interest margin and increased net interest income - Solid fee-based revenue progress - Strong EquiFirst profits - Outstanding credit quality - Incremental, on-target merger cost saves - Quick operational recovery from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita - Hurricane Katrina-related provision for loan losses MOMENTUM LEADS TO PROFIT IMPROVEMENT "I am very pleased with our double-digit increases in earnings and top-line revenues," said Regions President and Chief Executive Officer Jackson W. Moore. "These strong third quarter earnings results demonstrate the progress we have made in building a stronger, more competitive financial institution." Moore said Regions is particularly proud of its third-quarter progress in light of efforts around successfully completing the second phase of its bank branch systems conversions and overcoming the challenges of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. "Our associates in the areas affected by these hurricanes quickly reopened offices and provided critical assistance to customers and their communities, in many cases putting customers' needs before their own losses. Since the hurricanes, we have seen dramatic growth in new deposit accounts across our footprint, as consumers recognized how quickly we recovered from the storms and were there to meet their financial needs." EPS UP 3.4 PERCENT LINKED QUARTER, UP 7 PERCENT YEAR-OVER-YEAR BEFORE MERGER AND OTHER CHARGES (See p. 4 for additional details) Regions' third-quarter 2005 net income was $256.6 million, or 55 cents per diluted share, including after-tax merger-related and other costs of $25 million (6 cents per diluted share). This compares to second quarter's 53 cents per diluted share, including 6 cents of merger-related costs. Excluding merger and other charges, per share earnings increased 3.4 percent linked quarter (13.6 percent annualized) from 59 cents to 61 cents.
October 14, 2005 Page 2 For the third quarter 2004, Regions earned $256.7 million, or 55 cents per diluted share, including 2 cents of merger-related costs. Excluding merger and other charges, this year's third quarter per share earnings are 7 percent higher than those of a year ago of 57 cents. FINAL ROUND OF BANK BRANCH CONVERSIONS ON SCHEDULE FOR NOVEMBER Conversions of legacy Union Planters bank branches to Regions' customer systems proceeded smoothly in the third quarter. The second phase, involving about 200 branches in Mississippi, southern Alabama, western Tennessee and the greater Memphis, Tenn. area, was successfully completed mid August. This major merger integration effort is well ahead of initial scheduling, with the final round of conversions set for early November. At that time, some 320 Union Planters branches in Florida and the Midwest - all of which have been operating under the Regions name since January - will be converted to legacy Regions' banking systems. BANKING FRANCHISE PRODUCES HEALTHY NET INTEREST INCOME GROWTH "We were pleased with the contribution of Regions' banking operations to the bottom line," Moore said. "Net interest income grew nicely and fee-related revenues, although affected somewhat by Hurricane Katrina, were healthy." Average community banking loans and deposits increased an annualized 1 percent second-to-third quarter. Strong home equity and construction lending fueled the modest rise in loans as commercial loans declined. On the deposit side, interest-free deposits and money market accounts grew an annualized 13 percent and 7 percent, respectively. In September, new demand deposit account production increased approximately 30 percent over the previous month. While related deposit balance gains were partially offset by declines in interest-bearing deposits, this shift improved our margin and the significant growth in new customers positions us well for strong future growth. On a linked-quarter basis, taxable equivalent net interest income rose $23.3 million, or an annualized 13 percent, to $739.8 million, assisted by an 8 basis point improvement in the net interest margin to 3.93 percent. Net interest income was up 7 percent compared with third quarter 2004, and the margin posted a 22 basis point year-over-year advance. In association with a $32 million mortgage servicing rights recapture, $1.4 billion of securities were sold at an approximate $21 million loss. Additionally, Regions recorded an approximate $11 million loss on early retirement of $600 million of Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Over the next year, these two actions should benefit net interest income approximately $13 million to $15 million annually. MORGAN KEEGAN CONTINUES TO RECORD STRONG RESULTS Morgan Keegan's third-quarter revenues increased to $199.4 million from second quarter's $195.6 million. Profits were steady at $24.1 million, compared to second quarter's $24.5 million. Third-quarter 2004 revenues and after-tax profits were $177.2 million and $19.5 million, respectively. On a linked-quarter basis, revenue improved across most business lines including private client, equity capital markets, trust and investment advisory. "Morgan Keegan's third-quarter results were excellent, with earnings up 23.5 percent year-over-year," said Moore. "We are optimistic that 2005 will be a record earnings year for Morgan Keegan as we enter the seasonally strong fourth quarter." MORTGAGE BANKING PROFITS JUMP, FUELED BY STRENGTH OF EQUIFIRST Earnings of EquiFirst, Regions' non-conforming mortgage operation, climbed to $17.3 million in the third quarter from second quarter's $9.6 million. Origination volume was steady at approximately $2.5 billion; however, gain on sale margins widened and loan sale volume increased. "We are pleased with EquiFirst's ability to be opportunistic in taking advantage of premium pricing," said Moore. "However, as we move into the fourth quarter, we are beginning to see more normal pricing levels as well as industry-wide competitive pressures."
October 14, 2005 Page 3 Conforming mortgage earnings were $3.6 million (excluding $32 million mortgage servicing rights reserve recapture), up from second quarter's $2.2 million (excluding $53 million mortgage servicing rights impairment charge). Total conforming originations slipped to $1.7 billion from the prior period's $2.0 billion due primarily to Regions' exit of the conforming wholesale origination business. Retail origination volume was little changed compared to second quarter's $1.3 billion. CORE EXPENSES STEADY Regions' third-quarter operating expenses were stable linked quarter at approximately $721 million, when excluding mortgage servicing rights reserve recapture, loss on early retirement of debt and merger-related and other costs. Merger-related cost saves of approximately $40 million (approximately $10 million incremental linked quarter) positively affected third-quarter operating expenses, resulting in aggregate merger saves of $94 million thus far in 2005. The company also incurred incremental costs of approximately $11 million that relate directly to revenue generation. Merger saves should continue to build as the benefit from bank branch conversions, in particular, is more fully realized. Moore emphasized that core expense containment and efficiency improvement are a high priority. "We feel good about third quarter's operating leverage improvement," he said. "On a sequential quarter basis, total revenues - excluding securities transactions - grew approximately 3 percent compared to a steady level of operating expenses." CREDIT QUALITY CONTINUES TO BE STRONG Credit quality remained excellent in the third quarter with continued low levels of net loan charge-offs and declining non-performing assets. Net loan charge-offs for the third quarter were $37 million, or an annualized 0.25 percent of average loans, compared to second quarter's annualized 0.23 percent. Non-performing assets declined to $440.5 million (0.75 percent of loans and other real estate) as of Sept. 30, 2005, compared to $455.8 million as of June 30, 2005. Regions recorded a third quarter provision for loan losses of $62.5 million, resulting in a loan loss allowance of $784 million or 1.34 percent of total loans. The provisioning level is inclusive of management's consideration of estimates of hurricane-related losses based on information available at quarter end, existing reserves related to loans in hardest hit areas, and current trends in non-performing assets and net charge-offs, among other factors (see allowance for loan losses disclosures in Form 10-K). EXCESS CAPITAL USED TO REPURCHASE SHARES Regions continued to actively manage its capital during the third quarter, returning excess capital to shareholders through stock buybacks. Approximately 4.2 million shares were repurchased at an average price of $33.53 per share during the quarter. As of Sept. 30, 2005, year-to-date stock buybacks have aggregated 12.7 million shares. For full-year 2005, Regions expects to repurchase some 17 million to 18 million shares. Tangible stockholders' equity to tangible assets was 6.68 percent at Sept. 30, 2005 and June 30, 2005. ABOUT REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION: Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF), headquartered in Birmingham, Ala., is a full-service provider of retail and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions had $84.6 billion in assets as of Sept. 30, 2005, making it one of the nation's Top 15 banks. Regions' banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates some 1,300 offices and a 1,600-ATM network across a 16-state geographic footprint in the South, Midwest and Texas. Its investment and securities brokerage, trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 280 offices. Additional information about Regions, which is a member of both the Forbes and Fortune 500 and has one of the top mortgage companies in the United States, can be found at www.regions.com.
October 14, 2005 Page 4 RECONCILIATION TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The table below presents computations of earnings excluding certain significant items affecting financial results. These significant items are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the exclusion of the significant items in expressing earnings provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons. See the table below for computations of earnings excluding significant items and corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures for the periods presented. ($ in millions, except diluted per share amounts) (1) Positive/(negative) impact on GAAP earnings. (2) Effective second quarter 2004 and retroactively applied, EITF 03-6, "Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share," requires a portion of earnings to be allocated to participating securities using the two-class method described in FAS 128. Regions repurchased 4.0 million shares through an accelerated stock repurchase agreement entered into March 9, 2004 which included a forward agreement, considered a participating security. First and second quarter 2004 earnings were reduced by $0.01 per basic and diluted share each quarter as a result of the application of this EITF. As the position was closed out during the third quarter, basic and diluted EPS for the third quarter were reduced by less than $0.01 per share.
October 14, 2005 Page 5 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (UNAUDITED) (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) * Annualized, year-to-date (a) Reflects impact of EITF 03-6 "Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share," which had no impact on earnings per share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005, and reduced earnings per share less than $.01 for the three months ended September 30, 2004 and $.02 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2004. For additional information, including supplemental financial information, refer to Regions' Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Oct. 14, 2005, or visit Regions' Web site at www.regions.com. Regions' Investor Relations contact is Jenifer Goforth Kimbrough at 205/244-2823; Regions' Media contact is Kristi Lamont Ellis at 205/326-7179. Statements made in this press release, other than those containing historical information, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. Regions cautions readers that results and events subject to forward-looking statements could differ materially due to the following factors: possible changes in economic and business conditions; the existence or exacerbation of general geopolitical instability and uncertainty; the ability of Regions to integrate recent acquisitions and attract new customers; possible changes in monetary and fiscal policies, and laws and regulations; the effects of easing of restrictions on participants in the financial services industry; the cost and other effects of legal and administrative cases; possible changes in the credit worthiness of customers and the possible impairment of collectibility of loans; the effects of changes in interest rates and other risks and factors identified in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ###
(REGIONS FINANCIAL CORP. (SM) LOGO) FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE SUMMARY Quarterly earnings of $0.55 per diluted share - - Equates to $0.61 per diluted share, excluding merger and other charges of $0.06 per share (see page 2 for add'l details), a 3% linked quarter increase - - Earnings driven by top line revenue growth of 3% linked-quarter (13% annualized) Strong banking impact on bottom line driven by increase in net interest income - - Quarterly FTE net interest income increased 13% linked-quarter, annualized, to $739.8 million - - Community banking loan growth of 1%, linked-quarter average, annualized, driven by home equity lines of credit but offset by decline in commercial loans - - Community banking deposit growth of 1%, linked-quarter average, annualized, primarily attributable to increased interest-free deposits and non-consumer money market deposits, offset by a decline in interest-bearing checking deposits Solid fee-based revenue - - Record EquiFirst results on profit of $17.3 million compared to $9.6 million in second quarter of 2005 - - Morgan Keegan revenues of $199.4 million compared to $195.6 million in the second quarter (profit of $24.1 million compared to second quarter's $24.5 million) - - Steady deposit service charges in light of merger conversions and Hurricanes Katrina and Rita Low net loan charge-offs and improved non-performing assets - - 3Q05 provision for loan losses totaled $62.5 million and exceeded net charge-offs by $25.5 million - - Net charge-offs for 3Q05 remained at low level of 25 bps. of average loans, annualized - - Non-performing assets declined 3% to $440.5 million or 0.75% of loans and other real estate at September 30, 2005, compared to $455.8 million and 0.78% at June 30, 2005 - - Approximately $62 million of Katrina-related loan loss reserves including $25 million provisioning over charge-offs in third quarter, $12 million of existing reserves specifically allocated to loans in the affected area, and $25 million of reserves allocated specifically to the Katrina portfolio from general reserves Merger integration remains on plan - - Total cost saves of approximately $40 million in the quarter for cumulative $94 million in 2005 - - On track for cumulative $135-$140 million of cost saves for 2005, near mid-point of earlier range of estimates - - Operating efficiency ratio down to 59.6% in third quarter 2005 from 61.5% in second quarter 2005 - - Approximately 200 legacy Union Planters branches converted successfully in August - - Event Three conversion planned for early November includes approximately 320 branches Quick operational recovery from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita - - Out of 190 branches affected by Katrina, only 18 remain closed - - Credit evaluation process surrounding hurricane exposure is well organized and progressing smoothly. Based on current information, management believes credit losses related to hurricane exposure are adequately reserved - - Approximately $1.7 million of storm related expenses included in third quarter's $40.9 million merger-related and other charges
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 2 SIGNIFICANT ITEMS AFFECTING EARNINGS RECONCILIATION TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The table below presents computations of earnings excluding certain significant items affecting financial results. These significant items are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the exclusion of the significant items in expressing earnings provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons. See the table below for computations of earnings excluding significant items and corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures for the periods presented. SIGNIFICANT ITEMS AFFECTING REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION EARNINGS ($ in millions, except diluted per share amounts) (1) Positive/(negative) impact on GAAP earnings. (2) Effective second quarter 2004 and retroactively applied, EITF 03-6, "Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share," requires a portion of earnings to be allocated to participating securities using the two-class method described in FAS 128. Regions repurchased 4.0 million shares through an accelerated stock repurchase agreement entered into March 9, 2004 which included a forward agreement, considered a participating security. First and second quarter 2004 earnings were reduced by $0.01 per basic and diluted share each quarter as a result of the application of this EITF. As the position was closed out during the third quarter, basic and diluted EPS for the third quarter were reduced by less than $0.01 per share.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 3 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION (UNAUDITED)
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 4 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 5 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 6 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE DAILY BALANCES AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 7 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE DAILY BALANCES AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 8 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED RATIOS * Annualized
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 9 LOANS LOAN PORTFOLIO - PERIOD END DATA LOAN PORTFOLIO - AVERAGE BALANCES AVERAGE COMMUNITY BANKING AND WHOLESALE LOANS * Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Average community banking loans increased 1% linked-quarter, annualized, primarily due to growth in consumer lines of credit and construction loans, offset by a decline in commercial loans.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 10 DEPOSITS DEPOSIT PORTFOLIO - PERIOD END DATA AVERAGE COMMUNITY BANKING AND WHOLESALE DEPOSITS * Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Drivers of deposit growth were interest-free deposits and non-consumer money market accounts, offset partially by a decline in interest-bearing checking. - - Interest-free deposits increased 13%, linked-quarter, annualized due primarily to the continuing roll-out and strong reception to free consumer and business checking accounts. The decline in interest-bearing checking can also be partially attributed to the free checking offering.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 11 OPERATING PERFORMANCE REVENUE (1) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation. * Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - The net interest margin increased from 3.85% in 2Q05 to 3.93% in 3Q05 primarily as a result of loan yields increasing faster than deposit costs. - - Regions is positioned slightly asset-sensitive at September 30, 2005, and expects to remain slightly asset-sensitive for the near term. - - However, when short-term rate increases begin to slow, Regions anticipates moderate compression of the net interest margin as the benefit from the lag currently experienced in deposit re-pricing diminishes.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 12 NON-INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE NON-INTEREST INCOME NON-INTEREST EXPENSE (1) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation. * Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. ** Net of merger and other charges. - - Mortgage servicing and origination fees declined primarily as a result of the sale of the conforming wholesale origination unit. - - $1.4 billion of securities were sold at a loss of $20.7 million and $10.9 million of loss on early extinguishment of $600 million of FHLB advances was incurred in conjunction with the recognition of $32.0 million of mortgage servicing rights recapture. - - Derivative income declined approximately $2.5 million to a still strong $7.4 million in 3Q05 compared to an exceptionally strong 2Q05 as benefit of the penetration of the legacy Union Planters customer base continues to produce sales of customer derivative products. - - Capital Factors was sold in late April. - - SOI was sold in August. It contributed approximately $4 million to non-interest income and approximately $2 million to non-interest expense in the third quarter. - - Salaries and employee benefits expense increased primarily as a result of incremental expenses related to incremental revenue production (approx. $11MM), offset by merger cost savings of approximately $4MM. - - Total cost saves in 3Q05 were approximately $40 million, an incremental $10 million compared to 2Q05's $30 million. - - Total spending on previously announced investment initiatives was approximately $14 million, in line with 2Q05 levels. - - Approximately $1.7 million of expenses related to storms affecting the Regions footprint in 3Q05 are included in merger- related and other charges. - - Excluding merger and other costs, MSR effects, and debt extinguishments loss, non-interest operating expenses were approximately $721 million in both 3Q05 and 2Q05.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 13 MORGAN KEEGAN MORGAN KEEGAN Summary Income Statement Breakout of Revenue by Division * Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Principal transaction revenue declined $1.7 million linked quarter as a result of a decline in activity among both retail and institutional fixed income customers as the yield curve flattened. - - Investment banking revenue was relatively flat as an increase in equity banking deals was offset by a decline in fixed income banking activity. - - Both interest revenues and interest expense increased linked quarter, following short term market interest rate trends. - - Trust revenues increased $2.3 million linked quarter as a result of increases in personal agency fees, RMK Timberland revenues and bi-annual retirement service fee billings. - - Both investment advisory revenues and asset management division revenues increased linked quarter as a result of continued focus on asset management"wrap" accounts as well as increases in asset values in line with the equity markets. - - Private client revenues increased $1.2 million linked-quarter as equity trading activity levels were positively affected by stronger equity markets. - - Fixed income capital markets revenues declined $6.3 million linked-quarter as banking activity slowed considerably compared to 2Q05 as noted above. - - Equity capital markets revenues increased $3.5 million linked-quarter as Morgan Keegan saw an increase in deal-flow from both public and private transactions.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 14 MORGAN KEEGAN (CONT.) - - 21,300 new accounts were opened in 3Q05 compared to 19,500 in 2Q05. - - Total customer assets were $54.4 billion at September 30, 2005, compared to $51.7 billion at June 30, 2005.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 15 MORTGAGE OPERATIONS MORTGAGE OPERATIONS (1) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation. * Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Conforming mortgage production declined slightly to $1.7 billion in 3Q05 from $2.0 billion in 2Q05 due primarily to Regions' exit of the conforming wholesale mortgage business. - - Regions sold its conforming wholesale production unit in 2Q05. Its production totaled $423 million in 2Q05. - - Regions Mortgage net income, excluding MSR impairment/recapture, was $3.5 million in 3Q05 compared to $2.2 million in 2Q05. - - EquiFirst's net income increased to $17.3 million in 3Q05 from $9.6 million in 2Q05, as a result of higher gain on sale margins and more production sold in 3Q05. - - Regions Mortgage originates conforming mortgage loans and services loans originated in-house and by others. - - EquiFirst originates non-conforming mortgage loans primarily through a broker network and sells them servicing-released, on a whole loan basis, at a premium.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 16 CREDIT QUALITY CREDIT QUALITY - - 3Q05 provision for loan losses totaled $62.5 million and exceeded net charge-offs by $25.5 million. - - Annualized charge-offs were 0.25% of average loans in 3Q05 compared to 0.23% of average loans in 2Q05. - - During 3Q05 non-performing assets declined $15.3 million to $440.5 million compared to $455.8 million in 2Q05. - - At September 30, 2005, non-performing assets totaled 0.75% of loans and other real estate compared to 0.78% at June 30, 2005. - - Regions September 30, 2005, allowance for loan losses includes $62 million of reserves allocated specifically to the Katrina portfolio. - - Regions' non-performing loan portfolio is composed primarily of small to medium-sized loans that are diversified geographically throughout its franchise. - - Management considers the current level of the allowance for loan losses adequate to absorb probable losses from loans in the portfolio. Management's determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses requires the use of judgments and estimates that may change in the future. Unfavorable changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the reserve, or the availability of new information, could cause the allowance for loan losses to be increased or decreased in future periods.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 17 Regions' footprint was affected by Hurricanes Dennis, Katrina, Rita and Ophelia in the third quarter of 2005. Hurricane Katrina, which affected coastal Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, had the most significant effect on Regions' business. Please find below specific data related to the hardest hit areas of Regions' footprint. - - Consumer exposure is approximately 50% home equity lines of credit. - - These loans have been placed into a separate pool for tracking purposes against the related $62 million allowance for loan losses. - - At September 30, 2005, these loans were reserved at 4.65 percent of their book value. - - Overall balances in these accounts have grown since the storm - - Reports from the field indicate account openings of 6 to 7 times normal volume in the weeks following the storm in certain areas (e.g., Baton Rouge). SERVICE CHARGES ON DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS - - Estimate $1.9 million in reduced service charge-related revenue in 3Q05 as a result of storms. MORGAN KEEGAN - - Morgan Keegan is the top municipal underwriter in the state of Louisiana. - - Morgan Keegan is well positioned to support the community and realize substantial business opportunities in the rebuilding phase. MORTGAGE - - Approximately $940 million of loans serviced for third parties with collateral in the area. - - September's conforming mortgage loan origination volume was approximately $15 million below the level of activity anticipated for this market in the month of September. - - EquiFirst had approximately $20 million loans in its held for sale portfolio that were in areas impacted by Katrina. ASSOCIATE IMPACT - - Approximately 700 Regions Bank, Morgan Keegan and Regions Mortgage associates were displaced by the storm. The majority of these associates have been either reassigned to a temporary location or have returned to their home office. FACILITIES - - Approximately 200 facilities were closed at the height of the storm. Eighteen bank branches and one Morgan Keegan office remain closed. - - All facilities were covered by both wind and flood insurance. Regions also has coverage for a portion of its business interruption losses.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 18 ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL DATA - - Regions has Board of Directors authorization to repurchase up to 20 million shares of common stock. - - During the third quarter, 4.2 million shares were repurchased. MERGER-RELATED AND OTHER CHARGES (Pre-tax dollars in millions)
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THIRD QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 19 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The information contained in this press release may include forward-looking statements that reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The forward-looking statements are based only on current expectations and general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs, and projections expressed in such statements. Such forward-looking statements are made in good faith by Regions pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions signify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Regions. Any such statement speaks only as of the date the statement was made. Regions undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Some factors that may affect the accuracy of our projections apply generally to the financial services industry, including: (1) the easing of restrictions on participants in the financial services industry, such as banks, securities brokers and dealers, investment companies, and finance companies, may increase our competitive pressures; (2) possible changes in interest rates may increase our funding costs and reduce our earning asset yields, thus reducing our margins; (3) possible changes in general economic and business conditions in the United States and the South, in general, and in the communities we serve, in particular, may lead to a deterioration in credit quality, thereby increasing our provisioning costs, or a reduced demand for credit, thereby reducing our earning assets; (4) the existence or exacerbation of general geopolitical instability and uncertainty, including the threat or occurrence of acts of terror or the occurrence or escalation of hostilities; (5) possible changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws, and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations, including changes in accounting standards, may have an adverse effect on our business; and (6) possible changes in consumer and business spending and saving habits could have an effect on our ability to grow our assets and to attract deposits. Other factors that may affect the accuracy of our projections are specific to Regions, including: (1) the cost and other effects of material contingencies, including litigation contingencies; (2) our ability to expand into new markets and to maintain profit margins in the face of pricing pressures; (3) our ability to keep pace with technological changes; (4) our ability to develop competitive new products and services in a timely manner and the acceptance of such products and services by Regions' customers and potential Regions customers; (5) our ability to effectively manage interest rate risk and other market risk, credit risk and operational risk; (6) our ability to manage fluctuations in the value of our assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures so as to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity to support our business; and (7) our ability to achieve the earnings expectations related to the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future, which in turn depends on a variety of factors, including: our ability to achieve anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements with respect to acquired operations; the assimilation of acquired operations to the Regions corporate culture, including the ability to instill our credit practices and efficient approach to acquired operations; and the continued growth of the markets that the acquired entities serve, consistent with recent historical experience. In addition, statements made in this financial supplement and the accompanying press release, other periodic reports filed by Regions with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of Regions may include forward looking statements relating to the benefits of the merger between Regions and Union Planters Corporation, including future financial and operating results, and Regions' plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. The following factors, among those addressed above and others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements: (1) the level and timeliness of realization, if any, of expected cost savings and revenue synergies from the merger; (2) difficulties related to the operational effects of the merger and the integration of the businesses of Regions and Union Planters, including integration of information systems and retention of key personnel; (3) disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients, employees or suppliers; (4) a materially adverse change in the financial condition of Regions, Union Planters or the combined company; (5) lower than expected revenues following the merger (6) other difficulties resulting from the merger. Regions' Investor Relations contact is Jenifer Goforth Kimbrough at (205) 244-2823; Regions' Media contact is Kristi Lamont Ellis at (205) 326-7179.


