FILE:RF/RF-8K-20050118080107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 18, 2005 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION ------------------------------ (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-6159 63-0589368 - ---------------- ------------- ------------------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 417 North 20th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35203 ------------------------------------------- ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (205) 944-1300 N/A -------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) Page 1
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE In accordance with general instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the following information is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. On January 18, 2005, the registrant Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release reporting on its results of operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. The press release, with its accompanying financial supplement, is included in this report as exhibit 99.1. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The exhibit listed in the exhibit index relates to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 and, in accordance with general instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Page 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Registrant) By: /s/ Ronald C. Jackson Ronald C. Jackson Senior Vice President and Comptroller Date: January 18, 2005
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 99.1 [REGIONS LOGO] Jan. 18, 2005 REGIONS FINISHES HISTORIC 2004 WITH HEALTHY PROFITS, CONTINUES SUCCESSFUL INTEGRATION BIRMINGHAM, Ala. - Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF) today announced highlights for its quarter ended Dec. 31, 2004, including: - Earnings of $0.50 per diluted share or $0.56 excluding $0.06 in merger and other charges (see Note 1 on page 4 for additional details) - On-plan merger integration efforts - Good loan and deposit growth in core banking franchise - Stable net interest income and increasing margin - Reduction in earning assets due to balance sheet management - Strong credit quality - Pickup in Morgan Keegan revenue, profits - Disappointing conforming mortgage results "The fourth quarter capped a year of positive change for Regions and strengthened our foundation for ongoing profit improvement," said Regions Chairman and CEO Carl E. Jones Jr. "Fourth-quarter earnings reflect improved capital markets business, good core banking results, excellent credit quality and incremental merger-related cost saves; but a challenging mortgage banking climate and investment spending are having a dampening effect. "In addition, merger integration is right on track, with the first round of bank branch conversions scheduled for April 2005," Jones said. "Targeted cost saves are being realized, asset quality continues to be strong, and we are achieving net growth in community banking customers, loans, and deposits, even as merger integration continues. "Still, there's more work to be done and incremental investments to be made if we are to fully capitalize on Regions' significant longer-term growth opportunities," he added. "We have been reviewing investment needs that will likely lead to higher 2005 related expenditures. In fact, fourth quarter 2004 results include some step-up in investment spending." Jones said the Regions management team believes long-term benefits resulting from these investments will far outweigh any modest short-term earnings effect. "We remain excited about Regions' prospects and look for further positive change this year as we strive to build a better, more profitable franchise," he said. Continued Next Page
Jan. 18, 2005 Page 2 FOURTH QUARTER EPS OF $0.56 AFTER SIGNIFICANT ITEMS (SEE NOTE 1 ON PAGE 4 FOR ADDITIONAL DETAILS) Fourth quarter 2004 net income was $236.5 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, including after-tax merger-related and other costs of $26.0 million ($0.06 per diluted share). This compares to third quarter 2004's $0.55 per diluted share, including $0.02 of merger-related and other costs. For the full year 2004, Regions earned $823.8 million, or $2.19 per diluted share, including $40.5 million ($0.10 per diluted share) in after-tax merger-related and other costs and $6.0 million ($0.02 per diluted share) related to the adoption of an accounting pronouncement (EITF 03-6). Regions' July 1, 2004, merger with Union Planters Corporation was accounted for as a purchase, therefore, 2003 financial data are only for legacy Regions and do not include the former Union Planters. In 2003, legacy Regions reported fourth-quarter and full-year net income totaling $163.8 million and $651.8 million, or a respective $0.59 and $2.35 per diluted share. MERGER INTEGRATION ON PLAN The integration process is going well and as planned. During the fourth quarter, new sales training programs were begun for legacy Union Planters associates and 2005 incentive plan and sales campaigns were rolled out company-wide. Additional training is also under way for legacy Regions associates. "As 2005 unfolds, these efforts should allow us to better serve our customers' needs, attract new, quality business, and build overall momentum," said Regions President Jackson W. Moore, who is responsible for the company's banking unit. In the first quarter of 2005, Regions is ramping up to begin bank branch conversions. The first round, scheduled for April, includes 170 branches, located mainly in parts of Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, north Alabama, south Kentucky and Tennessee. Regions achieved $24 million of merger-related cost savings in the fourth quarter, bringing total 2004 savings to approximately $30 million. BANKING FRANCHISE POSTS ENCOURAGING RESULTS Regions' banking operations performed well in the fourth quarter, especially given a flattening yield curve. Taxable equivalent net interest income was up slightly linked quarter, to $695.3 million, helped by an increased net interest margin of 3.76%, but offset by a decline in the average securities portfolio. Active balance sheet management and the flattening yield curve led management to withhold reinvestment of the funds in the quarter. Community banking loans and deposits continued to grow at a steady pace, or an annualized 8% and 7%, respectively, compared to third quarter 2004 averages. Home equity and commercial real estate credit demand was good, while commercial loan demand remained lackluster. Low-cost demand deposit accounts and retail certificates of deposit were drivers of deposit growth. NON-PERFORMING ASSETS DROP Credit quality remained very good in the fourth quarter, with no surprises. Non-performing assets declined another 2% linked quarter, to $452.3 million (0.79% of loans and other real estate) from third quarter's $462.2 million. Net loan charge-offs totaled $47 million, or an annualized 0.33% of average loans, which bettered management's previously stated year-end goal of 0.40%. After recording a loan loss provision of $45 million, Regions' loan loss allowance-to-total loans ended the year at 1.31%. MORGAN KEEGAN IMPROVES REVENUES, PROFITS Morgan Keegan revenues and after-tax profits picked up in the fourth quarter to $203.7 million and $23.8 million, respectively, or 15% and 22% above the preceding period. Trading volumes improved, as did deal flow in both fixed income and equity capital markets. Notably, Morgan Keegan raised $360 million in an IPO of a closed-end fund, RMK Advantage Income Fund, Inc. Continued Next Page
Jan. 18, 2005 Page 3 "We're pleased with Morgan Keegan's fourth-quarter rebound," Regions Vice Chairman and Morgan Keegan Chairman Allen B. Morgan, Jr. said. "As steps are taken to more effectively leverage Regions' expanded customer base, this part of our company should increasingly participate in any further strengthening of capital markets activities." CONFORMING MORTGAGE DISAPPOINTS Conforming mortgage results negatively affected Regions' bottom line results for the fourth quarter. The unit's profit was $850 thousand in the quarter, down from a profit of $3.4 million in the third quarter of 2004. Reduced industry demand is taking a particular toll on Regions' conforming mortgage originations; Regions Mortgage's fourth quarter originations declined to $2.4 billion from third quarter's $2.5 billion. "We're clearly disappointed in the results of our conforming mortgage subsidiary," Jones said. "We are committed to right-sizing our cost structure to current production levels. Currently, we are evaluating strategies around our wholesale origination platform and our servicing platform." NON-CONFORMING MORTGAGE MEETS EXPECTATIONS FOR YEAR, BUT DOWN FOR QUARTER EquiFirst, Regions' non-traditional mortgage operation, reported a 25% increase in residential mortgage originations to $1.7 billion from third quarter's $1.3 billion. Its ramped-up Western U.S. operations continue to grow, boosting volumes. However, premium compression affected gain on sale revenues negatively, contributing to a decline in after-tax profitability of the unit to $7.3 million from third quarter's $9.7 million. "EquiFirst continues to positively impact Regions' overall mortgage banking business," said Jones. "While industry forces are creating pressure on profitability and production volumes, our West Coast operations are helping maintain steady growth in the non-conforming segment." Continued Next Page
Jan. 18, 2005 Page 4 RECONCILIATION TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (1)The table above presents the computation of earnings excluding certain significant items affecting financial results. These significant items are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the exclusion of the significant items in expressing earnings provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons. See the table below for computation of earnings excluding significant items and corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures for the period presented. (2)Results prior to third quarter 2004 are for legacy Regions, as the merger (accounted for as a purchase transaction) with Union Planters was not effective until July 1, 2004. However, prior period per share amounts have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004. ABOUT REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (NYSE: RF), HEADQUARTERED IN BIRMINGHAM, ALA., IS A FULL-SERVICE PROVIDER OF RETAIL AND COMMERCIAL BANKING, SECURITIES BROKERAGE, MORTGAGE, AND INSURANCE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. WITH ITS MERGER WITH FORMER UNION PLANTERS CORP. COMPLETE, REGIONS HAD ASSETS OF $84.1 BILLION AS OF DEC. 31, 2004, MAKING IT ONE OF THE NATION'S TOP 15 FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDERS. REGIONS' BANKING SUBSIDIARIES, REGIONS BANK AND UNION PLANTERS BANK, OPERATE SOME 1,400 OFFICES AND A 1,700-ATM NETWORK ACROSS A 15-STATE GEOGRAPHIC FOOTPRINT IN THE SOUTH, MIDWEST AND TEXAS. ITS INVESTMENT AND SECURITIES BROKERAGE, TRUST AND ASSET MANAGEMENT DIVISION, MORGAN KEEGAN & COMPANY INC., PROVIDES SERVICES FROM MORE THAN 145 OFFICES. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE NEW REGIONS, WHICH IS A MEMBER OF BOTH THE FORBES AND FORTUNE 500 AND OPERATES ONE OF THE TOP 20 MORTGAGE COMPANIES IN THE UNITED STATES, CAN BE FOUND AT WWW.REGIONS.COM. Continued Next Page
Jan. 18, 2005 Page 5 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (UNAUDITED) (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) For additional information, including supplemental financial information, refer to Regions' Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 18, 2005, or visit Regions' Web site at www.regions.com. Regions' Investor Relations contact is Jenifer Goforth at 205/244-2823; Regions' Media contact is Kristi Lamont Ellis at 205/326-7179. "Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding Regions Financial Corporation's business that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the company's annual report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year. -END-
[REGIONS LOGO] FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE SUMMARY Quarterly earnings of $0.50 per diluted share - - Equates to $0.56 per diluted share, excluding merger charges of $0.06 per share (see page 2 for add'l details) - - Earnings driven by good growth in loans and deposits, increasing brokerage revenues and strong credit quality, offset by a decline in mortgage and slightly higher non-interest expenses Positive trends in banking unit - - Quarterly FTE net interest income increased to $695.3 million; net interest margin increased to 3.76% - - Net interest income affected by lack of reinvestment of third quarter security sale proceeds - - Community banking loan growth of 8%, linked-quarter average, annualized, driven by commercial real estate and home equity lines of credit - - Community banking deposit growth of 7%, linked-quarter average, annualized, primarily attributable to interest-free deposits, interest-bearing checking and CD's Strong credit quality - - Quarterly net charge-offs of $47 million or 33 bps. of average loans, annualized - - Non-performing assets declined 2% to $452 million or 0.79% of loans and other real estate at December 31, 2004, compared to 0.81% at September 30, 2004 Pickup in Morgan Keegan revenue, profits - - Morgan Keegan revenues increased 15% to $204 million in the fourth quarter - - Profit increased 22% to $23.8 million in the fourth quarter - - Successful offering of RMK Advantage Income Fund in the fourth quarter contributed approximately $12 million to total revenues Mixed mortgage results - - Mortgage revenues of $96.7 million in 4Q04, down 10% compared to 3Q04 levels - - 25% linked quarter increase in non-conforming origination volume to $1.7 billion - - 23% linked quarter decline in total gain on sale of mortgages to $24.9 million - - 4% linked quarter decline in conforming mortgage volume to $2.4 billion - - Planning of initiatives to improve conforming mortgage cost structure is underway Cost saves of approximately $24 million realized this quarter - - Primarily related to FTE reductions and renegotiated contracts - - Investments in people and new branches increased expenses in the fourth quarter and will be followed by additional investments in 2005 for the long term growth of the business Merger integration on plan and going well - - Sales training of legacy Union Planters bankers completed successfully in fourth quarter - - Signage change initiative underway in non-overlap areas - - First round of bank branch conversions scheduled to begin in the second quarter - - Pleased with integration progress; Expectation of completion remains 4Q05
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 2 SIGNIFICANT ITEMS AFFECTING EARNINGS RECONCILIATION TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The tables below present computations of earnings excluding certain significant items affecting financial results. These significant items are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the exclusion of the significant items in expressing earnings provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons. See the tables below for computations of earnings excluding significant items and corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures for the periods presented. SIGNIFICANT ITEMS AFFECTING REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION EARNINGS ($ in millions, except diluted per share amounts) (1) Positive/(negative) impact on GAAP earnings. (2) Results prior to third quarter 2004 are for legacy Regions, as the merger (accounted for as a purchase transaction) with Union Planters was not effective until July 1, 2004. However, prior period per share amounts have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004. (3) Effective second quarter 2004 and retroactively applied, EITF 03-6, "Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share," requires a portion of earnings to be allocated to participating securities using the two-class method described in FAS 128. Regions repurchased 4.0 million shares through an accelerated stock repurchase agreement entered into March 9, 2004 which included a forward agreement, considered a participating security. First and second quarter 2004 earnings were reduced by $0.01 per basic and diluted share each quarter as a result of the application of this EITF. As the position was closed out during the third quarter, basic and diluted EPS for the third quarter were reduced by less than $0.01 per share. (4) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 3 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION (UNAUDITED) (1) June 30, 2004, Common Stock and Surplus has been restated to post-merger terms, giving effect to the change in par value from $0.625 per share to $0.01 per share and exchange of 1.2346 shares for each 1 share of old Regions shares in connection with the July 1, 2004 merger with Union Planters. (2) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 4 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED) ($ amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) (1) Share and per share amounts for all periods presented prior to 9/30/04 have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger with Union Planters Corporation, which was effective July 1, 2004. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004. (2) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis. (3) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 5 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED) ($ amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) (1) Share and per share amounts for all periods presented prior to third quarter 2004 have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger with Union Planters Corporation, which was effective July 1, 2004. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004. (2) Reflects impact of EITF 03-6 "Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share," which reduced earnings per share $.03 per share for the year ended December 31, 2004. EITF 03-6 had no impact on 2003 per share amounts. (3) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis. (4) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 6 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE DAILY BALANCES AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS ($ amounts in thousands; yields on taxable equivalent basis) (1) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 7 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE DAILY BALANCES AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS ($ amounts in thousands; yields on taxable equivalent basis) REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES ($ amounts in thousands) (1) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 8 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED RATIOS *Annualized (1) Per share information has been restated to post-merger terms, giving effect to the 1.2346 for 1.0 exchange ratio that was applied to Regions shares in connection with the July 1, 2004 merger with Union Planters. (2) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 9 LOANS LOAN PORTFOLIO - PERIOD END DATA LOAN PORTFOLIO - AVERAGE BALANCES AVERAGE COMMUNITY BANKING AND WHOLESALE LOANS (1) Presentation of prior periods has been changed to reflect adjustments to the current period presentation. * Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Strongest categories of growth in the loan portfolio continue to be commercial real estate related credits and consumer lines of credit. - - The quality of the loans originated in the Equity AssetLine campaign remains high, with an average FICO score of 731 at December 31, 2004. - - $8.6 million of loans held for sale in the Capital Factors business were sold in the quarter. There was no income statement effect as a result of this sale.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 10 DEPOSITS DEPOSIT PORTFOLIO - PERIOD END DATA AVERAGE COMMUNITY BANKING AND WHOLESALE DEPOSITS *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - End of period deposits increased $2.1 billion or 15%, linked-quarter, annualized, primarily as a result of increases in low-cost interest-free and money market accounts and certificates of deposit. - - Average community banking deposits increased 7%, linked-quarter, annualized. Primary drivers of growth were interest-free deposits, interest-bearing checking and CD's. - - Call center sales campaign yielded 80,000 product sales in 2004 vs. 58,000 in 2003 and a cross-sell ratio on these product sales of 3.37 in 2004 vs. 2.37 in 2003. - - In the legacy Regions deposit acquisition campaign, approximately 224,000 accounts were opened in 2004 toward a target of 250,000 new accounts and compared to 205,000 new accounts in 2003, an increase of 10%.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 11 OPERATING PERFORMANCE REVENUE (1) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation. *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - The net interest margin increased from 3.71% in 3Q04 to 3.76% in 4Q04. - - Average securities were down $1.3 billion quarter over quarter primarily as a result of securities sold in the third quarter for which the proceeds were not reinvested given balance sheet management strategies and the flattening of the yield curve. - - Regions is positioned slightly asset-sensitive at December 31, 2004, and expects to remain slightly asset sensitive for the near term.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 12 NON-INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE NON-INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE NON-INTEREST INCOME NON-INTEREST EXPENSE (1) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation. *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. ** Net of merger and other charges in 2Q04, 3Q04 and 4Q04. - - Non-interest income, excluding securities gains and losses, increased $2.8 million linked-quarter, on a comparable basis. - - The allocation of mortgage servicing and origination fees is approximately 35% to origination activities and approximately 65% to servicing activities. - - Total cost saves of $30 million were recognized in 2004 with $6 million being recognized in 3Q04 and $24 million in 4Q04. Approximately $10 million of the fourth quarter cost saves are one-time expense reductions that will give rise to further cost saves of approximately $2.5 million per quarter on a go-forward basis. - - Non-interest expense, excluding merger-related charges and impairment of MSR's increased approximately $3 million on a comparable basis. Primary factors were cost saves offset by investments in people and branches in the fourth quarter which are expected to benefit revenue over the long term.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 13 MORGAN KEEGAN MORGAN KEEGAN Summary Income Statement Breakout of Revenue by Division *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - During the fourth quarter, Morgan Keegan executed a successful IPO of the RMK Advantage Income Fund. Fee and commission revenue from this offering was approximately $12 million and is included in the investment banking line item in the top table above. In the bottom table, approximately $10 million of the revenue was recognized in the private client group and approximately $2 million was recognized in the equity capital markets group. - - Commissions increased $2.2 million compared to 3Q04 as a result of increased trading volumes. - - Principal transactions revenues increased $2.4 million primarily due to non-commission private client group activity. - - Trust income was slightly lower compared to 3Q04 due primarily to fair market values of assets, on which many fees are based, being generally higher at the beginning of the third quarter than at the beginning of the fourth quarter. - - Investment banking revenues increased $15.3 million over the third quarter given a significant increase in deal flow from both the fixed income and equity businesses and the sale of the RMK Advantage Income Fund. - - Investment advisory revenues increased $3.2 million compared to 3Q04 as market values of assets increased and as assets under wrap fees continued to grow. (cont. on next page)
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 14 MORGAN KEEGAN (CONTINUED) - - Private client revenues increased $11.7 million linked quarter as equity markets improved in the fourth quarter and as a result of the closed end fund offering. - - Fixed income revenues were up $3.7 million linked quarter due to increased fixed income deal flow. - - Equity capital markets revenues increased $4.9 million or 31% as a result of a recovery in the markets from record low transaction volume in the third quarter combined with healthy deal flow and the closed end fund offering in the fourth quarter. - - Expenses increased $19 million primarily due to an increase in commission expense of approximately $14 million, travel and other expenses associated with transaction revenue, and expenses related to the integration of former PFIC advisors into Morgan Keegan. - - Average assets per financial advisor were $61.0 million at December 31, 2004 compared to $57.2 million at September 30, 2004. The increase is attributable primarily to improved equity market conditions in the fourth quarter. - - Total customer assets were $48.5 billion at December 31, 2004, compared to $44.5 billion at September 30, 2004.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 15 MORTGAGE OPERATIONS MORTGAGE OPERATIONS (1) Presentation of prior periods has been changed to reflect adjustments to the current period presentation. *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Conforming mortgage production declined 4%, linked-quarter in line with industry trends. - - Non-conforming mortgage production increased 25% linked-quarter primarily as a result of growth in the Western U.S. portion of the business. - - EquiFirst's gain on sale of mortgage loans declined primarily as a result of compression in premiums, consistent with the market. - - Regions Mortgage originates conforming mortgage loans and services loans originated in-house and by others. - - EquiFirst originates non-conforming mortgage loans primarily through a broker network and sells them servicing-released, on a whole loan basis, at a premium.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 16 CREDIT QUALITY CREDIT QUALITY - - Annualized charge-offs were 0.33% of average loans in 4Q04 compared to a low 0.30% of average loans in 3Q04. - - Non-performing assets declined 2.2%, linked-quarter, primarily in the other real estate category. - - At December 31, 2004, non-performing assets totaled 0.79% of loans and other real estate compared to 0.81% at September 30, 2004. - - Regions non-performing loan portfolio is composed primarily of small to medium-sized loans that are diversified geographically throughout its franchise. - - The largest non-performing loan has an outstanding balance of approximately $11 million. - - Of the 25 largest ORE properties, the largest has a book value of $2.4 million and the smallest has a book value of $329,000. - - In January 2005, a customer with aggregate indebtedness totaling approximately $60 million filed bankruptcy. The credit is current and well secured. This credit is not included in non-performing assets as of December 31, 2004. We will continue to monitor the status of this credit in 2005. - - Management considers the current level of the allowance for loan losses adequate to absorb probable losses from loans in the portfolio. Management's determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses requires the use of judgments and estimates that may change in the future. Unfavorable changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the reserve, or the availability of new information, could cause the allowance for loan losses to be increased or decreased in future periods.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 17 ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL DATA - - Regions has Board of Directors authorization to repurchase up to 20 million shares of common stock. - - 843,000 shares were repurchased in the fourth quarter. - - Increase in Morgan Keegan offices is primarily related to placement of FA's in legacy Union Planters bank branches. MERGER-RELATED AND OTHER CHARGES (Pre-tax dollars in millions) (1) Projections provided by management at time of merger announcement, January 23, 2004. (2) Projections provided by Union Planters management in 4Q03 press release.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FOURTH QUARTER 2004 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 18 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The information contained in this press release may include forward-looking statements that reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The forward-looking statements are based only on current expectations and general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs, and projections expressed in such statements. Such forward-looking statements are made in good faith by Regions pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions signify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Regions. Any such statement speaks only as of the date the statement was made. Regions undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Some factors that may affect the accuracy of our projections apply generally to the financial services industry, including: (1) the easing of restrictions on participants in the financial services industry, such as banks, securities brokers and dealers, investment companies, and finance companies, may increase our competitive pressures; (2) possible changes in interest rates may increase our funding costs and reduce our earning asset yields, thus reducing our margins; (3) possible changes in general economic and business conditions in the United States and the South, in general, and in the communities we serve, in particular, may lead to a deterioration in credit quality, thereby increasing our provisioning costs, or a reduced demand for credit, thereby reducing our earning assets; (4) the existence or exacerbation of general geopolitical instability and uncertainty, including the threat or occurrence of acts of terror or the occurrence or escalation of hostilities; (5) possible changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws, and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations, including changes in accounting standards, may have an adverse effect on our business; and (6) possible changes in consumer and business spending and saving habits could have an effect on our ability to grow our assets and to attract deposits. Other factors that may affect the accuracy of our projections are specific to Regions, including: (1) the cost and other effects of material contingencies, including litigation contingencies; (2) our ability to expand into new markets and to maintain profit margins in the face of pricing pressures; (3) our ability to keep pace with technological changes; (4) our ability to develop competitive new products and services in a timely manner and the acceptance of such products and services by Regions' customers and potential Regions customers; (5) our ability to effectively manage interest rate risk and other market risk, credit risk and operational risk; (6) our ability to manage fluctuations in the value of our assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures so as to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity to support our business; and (7) our ability to achieve the earnings expectations related to the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future, which in turn depends on a variety of factors, including: our ability to achieve anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements with respect to acquired operations; the assimilation of acquired operations to the Regions corporate culture, including the ability to instill our credit practices and efficient approach to acquired operations; and the continued growth of the markets that the acquired entities serve, consistent with recent historical experience. In addition, statements made in this financial supplement and the accompanying press release, other periodic reports filed by Regions with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of Regions may include forward looking statements relating to the benefits of the merger between Regions and Union Planters Corporation, including future financial and operating results, and Regions' plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. The following factors, among those addressed above and others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements: (1) the level and timeliness of realization, if any, of expected cost savings and revenue synergies from the merger; (2) difficulties related to the operational effects of the merger and the integration of the businesses of Regions and Union Planters, including integration of information systems and retention of key personnel; (3) disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients, employees or suppliers; (4) a materially adverse change in the financial condition of Regions, Union Planters or the combined company; (5) lower than expected revenues following the merger (6) other difficulties resulting from the merger. Regions' Investor Relations contact is Jenifer M. Goforth at (205) 244-2823; Regions' Media contact is Kristi Lamont Ellis at (205) 326-7179.


