FILE:RF/RF-8K-20050415070027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 15, 2005 -------------- REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION ------------------------------ (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-6159 63-0589368 - ---------------- ------------- ------------------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 417 North 20th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35203 ------------------------------------------- ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (205) 944-1300 ---------------- N/A -------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) Page 1
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE In accordance with general instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the following information is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. On April 15, 2005, the registrant Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release reporting on its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The press release, with its accompanying financial supplement, is included in this report as exhibit 99.1. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The exhibit listed in the exhibit index relates to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 and, in accordance with general instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Page 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Registrant) By: /s/ Ronald C. Jackson Ronald C. Jackson Senior Vice President and Comptroller Date: April 15, 2005 Page 3
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Sequential Exhibit Page No. - ------- ---------- 99.1 Press release dated April 15, 2005. Page 4

 
Exhibit 99.1
April 15, 2005
REGIONS ANNOUNCES SOLID FIRST QUARTER PROFITS,
GOOD INTEGRATION PROGRESS
.Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF) today reported highlights for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, including:
BIRMINGHAM, Ala
Good Beginning for Transition Year
"The year is off to a good start," said Regions Chairman and CEO Carl E. Jones Jr. "First-quarter earnings met our expectations, benefiting from a very strong capital markets business, along with solid loan and deposit growth, outstanding credit quality and additional merger-related cost saves.
"And, our integration is proceeding as scheduled  we have completed preparations for the first legacy Union Planters bank branch conversion event, which is set for the weekend of April 22," Jones said. "We also completed rebranding efforts and signage changes for more than 300 branches located in our South Florida and Midwest markets. In addition, as part of our ongoing effort to evaluate the strategic deployment of capital, we made the decision to exit Regions' conforming wholesale mortgage banking operations and the Capital Factors subsidiary."
Jones said no significant earnings impact is expected as a result of these sales.
First Quarter EPS of $0.57 Before Merger-Related Charges
(see page 4 for additional details)
First quarter 2005 net income was $242 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, including after-tax merger-related costs of $27 million ($0.06 per diluted share). This compares to fourth quarter 2004's $0.50 per diluted share, including $0.06 of merger-related and other costs. Accordingly, excluding special charges, per share earnings rose 2% from $0.56 in fourth quarter 2004 to $0.57 in first quarter 2005.
Regions' July 1, 2004, merger with Union Planters Corp. was accounted for as a purchase, therefore, 2004 first and second quarter financial data are only for legacy Regions and do not include the former Union Planters. Legacy Regions reported first quarter 2004 net income available to common shareholders of $166.6 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, including an after-tax $2 million ($0.01 per share) charge related to a new accounting pronouncement.
"This is truly a transition year for Regions," said the Regions chairman, who will turn over his title as CEO to Regions President Jackson W. Moore on July 1. "We're working hard to build a more efficient and profitable long-term business model, and our first-quarter progress is encouraging."
 
April 15, 2005 Page 2
Jones then noted that factors that did restrict further bottom-line improvement in the first quarter were a less accommodating yield curve, mortgage banking softness and seasonality.
Merger Integration Remains on Schedule
The merger integration is proceeding smoothly, with the first round of bank branch conversions scheduled for completion later this month.
"Preparations for this milestone were the focal point of first-quarter integration efforts," said Moore, who is responsible for the company's banking operations. "Ensuring a seamless experience for our customers has been critical to the planning process, and we're comfortable this will be the case as dress rehearsals' have gone well."
This initial phase of conversions involves more than 100 branches located in Alabama, Arkansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Tennessee and Texas. All three phases of the conversion are still on track for completion by year-end 2005, with the next two conversions including more than 250 branches each. Conversion of the mortgage origination platform was completed in the first quarter.
Regions realized approximately $23 million in cost saves during the quarter. Full-year 2005 targeted saves are unchanged at $130 million to $150 million. As previously disclosed, $50 million to $60 million of these planned savings will be used to fund additional investment spending related to building out talent in strategic businesses, enhancing technology and constructing new bank branches. Revenue and efficiency payback from the investments is not anticipated to be material until 2006 and beyond.
Banking Franchise Achieves Solid Results
Regions' banking operations posted favorable first quarter results, especially taking into account seasonal challenges. Taxable equivalent net interest income of $701 million increased $5.8 million compared to fourth quarter 2004. An 8 basis point rise in the net interest margin to 3.84% offset the effect of two fewer days in the first quarter. In connection with the recapture of $35 million in mortgage servicing rights impairment, $1.4 billion in bonds were sold at an approximate $34 million loss.
Community banking loans and deposits achieved steady gains, increasing at an annualized 5% and 6% rate, respectively, linked-quarter average comparison. Home equity and commercial real estate credits continued to fuel loan growth, as commercial loan outstandings remained flat. Deposit growth was fueled by low-cost demand deposits and retail certificates of deposit.
Morgan Keegan Books Strong Revenues, Record Earnings
Morgan Keegan's first quarter performance was excellent. Revenues and after-tax profits rose to $204.3 million and $26.2 million, respectively, from fourth quarter's $203.7 million and $23.8 million. All major segments achieved good results, but fixed income banking and equity capital markets banking businesses were particularly strong, benefiting from healthy deal flow.
"We're very pleased with Morgan Keegan's first-quarter accomplishment and encouraged about full-year prospects," said Regions Vice Chairman and Morgan Keegan Chairman Allen B. Morgan, Jr. "Market conditions have been favorable this quarter, and we've started to see the pay-off from moves we've made to better leverage Regions' broadened customer base."
Mortgage Banking Strategy Advances
Regions continues to take steps to right-size its conforming mortgage business and evaluate its business strategies. In line with these ongoing reviews, during the first quarter, Regions announced that its conforming wholesale origination operation will be assumed by M&T Mortgage effective May 1.
Helped by cost saves and loan sale gains, the company's conforming mortgage earnings improved to $5.2 million, excluding mortgage servicing rights recapture, in the first quarter from the fourth quarter's disappointing $850,000, as origination volume declined slightly to $2.1 billion in the first quarter of 2005. However, profitability of EquiFirst, Regions' non-traditional mortgage operation, weakened to $4.8 million from $7.3 million in the preceding period. While EquiFirst's residential mortgage
 
April 15, 2005 Page 3
originations were little changed from fourth-to-first quarter, or $1.7 billion, lower sales volume reduced gain on sale revenues in the first quarter of 2005.
"Given rising interest rates and industry competitive pressures, 2005 will be a challenging year for Regions' overall mortgage business," Jones said. "We're nevertheless determined to carve out additional efficiencies and refine our strategies in this area to continue to better position this important part of our business."
Sound Expense Management
First quarter core operating expenses totaled $718 million, excluding a $35 million mortgage servicing rights reserve recapture benefit and $38.9 million of merger-related costs. This compares to fourth quarter's $714 million (excluding $35 million of merger and other charges) and reflects the benefit of cost saves of $23 million. The impact of the cost saves was somewhat mitigated by seasonally higher costs such as employee benefits and investment initiatives previously discussed.
Net Loan Charge-Offs Decline
Regions' overall credit quality remains good. First quarter net loan charge-offs dropped to a low $24.7 million, or an annualized 0.17% of average loans. Provisioning of $30 million resulted in a March 31 loan loss allowance-to-total loans ratio of 1.31%.
Due to a single sizable loan relationship, non-performing assets increased to $487.1 million (0.84% of loans and other real estate) from year-end 2004's $452.3 million.
Returning Excess Capital to Shareholders
During the first quarter, Regions repurchased 4.5 million shares. Management expects the full-year impact of share repurchases in 2005 to result in a reduction of 7 million to 10 million average shares outstanding compared to fourth quarter 2004 levels.
Regions will host a conference call and Webcast to discuss first-quarter earnings this morning at 8:30 a.m. CT. Internet access to the call and to the supporting materials will be available through the Investor Relations section of the Regions Web site, , under the heading of Live Webcast. Telephone access to the call may be obtained by dialing 1-800-322-5044 for U.S. callers and 617-614-4927 for international callers with access code 27822597 by 8:20 a.m. CT.
www.regions.com
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF), headquartered in Birmingham, Ala., is a full-service provider of retail and commercial banking, securities brokerage, mortgage, and insurance products and services. With its merger with former Union Planters Corp. complete, Regions had assets of $84.3 billion as of Mar. 31, 2005, making it one of the nation's Top 15 financial services providers. Regions' banking subsidiaries, Regions Bank and Union Planters Bank, operate some 1,400 offices and a 1,700-ATM network across a 15-state geographic footprint in the South, Midwest and Texas. Its investment and securities brokerage, trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from more than 250 offices. Additional information about the new Regions, which is a member of both the Forbes and Fortune 500 and operates one of the Top 20 mortgage companies in the United States, can be found at www.regions.com.
 
April 15, 2005 Page 4
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
The table below presents the computation of earnings excluding certain significant items affecting financial results. These significant items are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the exclusion of the significant items in expressing earnings provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons. See the table below for computation of earnings excluding significant items and corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures for the periods presented.
 
April 15, 2005 Page 5
Results prior to third quarter 2004 are for legacy Regions, as the merger (accounted for as a purchase transaction) with Union Planters was not effective until July 1, 2004. However, prior period per share amounts have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004.
For additional information, including supplemental financial information, refer to Regions' Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 15, 2005, or visit Regions' Web site at www.regions.com. Regions' Investor Relations contact is Jenifer Goforth at 205/244-2823; Regions' Media contact is Kristi Lamont Ellis at 205/326-7179.
Statements made in this press release, other than those containing historical information, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. Regions cautions readers that results and events subject to forward-looking statements could differ materially due to the following factors: possible changes in economic and business conditions; the existence or exacerbation of general geopolitical instability and uncertainty; the ability of Regions to integrate recent acquisitions and attract new customers; possible changes in monetary and fiscal policies, and laws and regulations; the effects of easing of restrictions on participants in the financial services industry; the cost and other effects of legal and administrative cases; possible changes in the credit worthiness of customers and the possible impairment of collectibility of loans; the effects of changes in interest rates and other risks and factors identified in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Summary
Quarterly earnings of $0.51 per diluted share
Positive trends in banking unit
Record quarterly revenue and profits at Morgan Keegan
Mortgage strategy advances
Low net charge-offs and increased non-performing assets
Cost saves of approximately $23 million realized this quarter
Merger integration remains on plan
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 2
Significant Items Affecting Earnings Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
The table below presents computations of earnings excluding certain significant items affecting financial results. These significant items are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the exclusion of the significant items in expressing earnings provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons. See the table below for computations of earnings excluding significant items and corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures for the periods presented.
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 3
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 4
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 5
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 6
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 7
Loans
* Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis.
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 8
Deposits
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 9
Operating Performance
* Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis.
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 10
Non-Interest Income and Expense
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 11
Morgan Keegan
Breakout of Revenue by Division
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 12
Mortgage Operations
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 13
Credit Quality
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 14
Additional financial and operational data
(Pre-tax dollars in millions)
Merger-related and other charges
 
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO FIRST QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 15
Forward-Looking Statements
The information contained in this press release may include forward-looking statements that reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The forward-looking statements are based only on current expectations and general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs, and projections expressed in such statements. Such forward-looking statements are made in good faith by Regions pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions signify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Regions. Any such statement speaks only as of the date the statement was made. Regions undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Some factors that may affect the accuracy of our projections apply generally to the financial services industry, including: (1) the easing of restrictions on participants in the financial services industry, such as banks, securities brokers and dealers, investment companies, and finance companies, may increase our competitive pressures; (2) possible changes in interest rates may increase our funding costs and reduce our earning asset yields, thus reducing our margins; (3) possible changes in general economic and business conditions in the United States and the South, in general, and in the communities we serve, in particular, may lead to a deterioration in credit quality, thereby increasing our provisioning costs, or a reduced demand for credit, thereby reducing our earning assets; (4) the existence or exacerbation of general geopolitical instability and uncertainty, including the threat or occurrence of acts of terror or the occurrence or escalation of hostilities; (5) possible changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws, and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations, including changes in accounting standards, may have an adverse effect on our business; and (6) possible changes in consumer and business spending and saving habits could have an effect on our ability to grow our assets and to attract deposits.
Other factors that may affect the accuracy of our projections are specific to Regions, including: (1) the cost and other effects of material contingencies, including litigation contingencies; (2) our ability to expand into new markets and to maintain profit margins in the face of pricing pressures; (3) our ability to keep pace with technological changes; (4) our ability to develop competitive new products and services in a timely manner and the acceptance of such products and services by Regions' customers and potential Regions customers; (5) our ability to effectively manage interest rate risk and other market risk, credit risk and operational risk; (6) our ability to manage fluctuations in the value of our assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures so as to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity to support our business; and (7) our ability to achieve the earnings expectations related to the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future, which in turn depends on a variety of factors, including: our ability to achieve anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements with respect to acquired operations; the assimilation of acquired operations to the Regions corporate culture, including the ability to instill our credit practices and efficient approach to acquired operations; and the continued growth of the markets that the acquired entities serve, consistent with recent historical experience.
In addition, statements made in this financial supplement and the accompanying press release, other periodic reports filed by Regions with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of Regions may include forward looking statements relating to the benefits of the merger between Regions and Union Planters Corporation, including future financial and operating results, and Regions' plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements.
The following factors, among those addressed above and others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements: (1) the level and timeliness of realization, if any, of expected cost savings and revenue synergies from the merger; (2) difficulties related to the operational effects of the merger and the integration of the businesses of Regions and Union Planters, including integration of information systems and retention of key personnel; (3) disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients, employees or suppliers; (4) a materially adverse change in the financial condition of Regions, Union Planters or the combined company; (5) lower than expected revenues following the merger (6) other difficulties resulting from the merger.
Regions' Investor Relations contact is Jenifer M. Goforth at (205) 244-2823; Regions' Media contact is Kristi Lamont Ellis at (205) 326-7179.


