FILE:RF/RF-8K-20050715080131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 15, 2005 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION ------------------------------ (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-6159 63-0589368 - --------------- ------------ ------------------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 417 North 20th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35203 ------------------------------------------- ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (205) 944-1300 N/A -------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE In accordance with general instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the following information is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. On July 15, 2005, the registrant Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release reporting on its results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The press release, with its accompanying financial supplement, is included in this report as exhibit 99.1. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The exhibit listed in the exhibit index relates to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 and, in accordance with general instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Registrant) By: /s/ Ronald C. Jackson Ronald C. Jackson Senior Vice President and Comptroller Date: July 15, 2005
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 99.1 [REGIONS FINANCIAL CORP. LOGO] July 15, 2005 REGIONS REPORTS STRONG EARNINGS ADVANCE, ONGOING INTEGRATION SUCCESS IN SECOND QUARTER BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF) today announced highlights for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, including: - Earnings of $0.53 per diluted share or $0.59 excluding $0.06 in merger-related charges, up 3.5 percent linked quarter (see p.5 for additional details) - Successful, on-plan bank branch conversions - Net interest margin expansion with corresponding net interest income gain - Steady community bank loan and deposit increases - Excellent credit quality - Additional merger cost saves PROMISING PROGRESS ON ALL FRONTS "We are pleased with our overall second quarter progress," said Regions President and CEO Jackson W. Moore, who explained that the sequential quarter earnings gain was driven by higher net interest income, continued low credit costs, and additional merger-related cost saves. "In addition to our strong earnings results, we successfully completed our first round of bank branch conversions, and made continued headway in implementing initiatives that better position the company for long-term profitable growth," Moore said. The chief executive officer noted that Regions remains focused on developing a more powerful business model that efficiently serves customers' needs and provides high-quality, above-average returns for shareholders. "Regions is on the right track," Moore said, "and we're looking forward to further progress in the second half of this transition year. We're all excited about our long-term opportunities, and believe that the recent realignment of our organizational structure will facilitate and accelerate realization of our vision." The company announced changes to its executive management structure in mid June in conjunction with Moore's planned move into the additional role of chief executive officer, which took place July 1, 2005. Former Regions CEO Carl E. Jones Jr. retired from that role, but remains chairman of Regions Financial Corporation Board of Directors, a role Moore is slated to assume in July 2006. EPS UP 3.5 PERCENT LINKED QUARTER, EXCLUDING MERGER-RELATED CHARGES (See p. 5 for additional details) Second quarter 2005 net income was $248.4 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, including after-tax merger-related costs of $29.6 million ($0.06 per diluted share). This compares to first quarter's $0.51 per diluted share, including $0.06 of merger-related costs. Thus, excluding merger charges, per share earnings rose 3.5 percent linked quarter to $0.59 from $0.57. Continued Next Page
July 15, 2005 Page 2 Regions' July 1, 2004, merger with Union Planters Corp. was accounted for as a purchase; therefore, 2004 second quarter financial data are only for legacy Regions and do not include the former Union Planters. Legacy Regions reported second quarter 2004 net income available to common shareholders of $159.3 million, or $0.58 per diluted share, including an after-tax $2.7 million ($0.01 per share) charge related to a new accounting pronouncement and an after-tax $5.8 million ($0.02 per share) charge related primarily to merger expenses. ON-PLAN MERGER INTEGRATION Merger integration efforts continued to go well in the second quarter, including the critical first round of Union Planters bank branch conversions to Regions' customer systems. During the second quarter, Regions successfully converted 137 bank branches in north Alabama, Arkansas, south Kentucky, Louisiana, eastern and middle Tennessee and Texas and closed or consolidated over 30 branches. Preparations are under way for a second round of conversions now slated for mid August. The second phase involves 205 bank branches located in Mississippi, southern Alabama, west Tennessee and the greater Memphis, Tenn. area. Mississippi is a new market state for Regions; Memphis is the headquarters city for Regions Mortgage, Regions Insurance Group and Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., the company's investment and brokerage arm. Some 320 Union Planters branches in Florida and the Midwest, which have been operating under the Regions name since January, are scheduled for conversion in November. Accordingly, all bank branch conversions should be completed before year-end 2005, which will be well ahead of the original plan. With respect to merger-related and restructuring charges, Regions now estimates that they will total approximately $350 million versus the original estimate of $300 million. The difference is largely related to protection of the customer base through advertising and communication, higher severance costs, and costs associated with ensuring a seamless integration (such as training). BANKING FRANCHISE ACHIEVES GAINS "Regions' banking operations performed well in the second quarter, with community banking deposits and core loans continuing to grow at a steady clip," Moore said. Average community banking loans were up an annualized 4 percent first-to-second quarter, and average community banking deposits increased an annualized 5 percent. Home equity and commercial real estate credits were the primary sources of core loan growth while commercial loan volume remained somewhat flat. Interest-free deposits and retail certificates of deposits were the predominant sources of growth in community banking deposits. "Although commercial loan growth remains modest, we have made a conscious decision to maintain our strong underwriting and pricing discipline," Moore said. On a linked-quarter basis, taxable equivalent net interest income rose $15 million, or an annualized 9 percent, to $717 million, helped by a 1 basis point increase in the net interest margin to 3.85 percent. In conjunction with a $53 million mortgage servicing rights impairment charge, $1 billion of bonds were sold at an approximate $53 million gain. The sale and reinvestment of proceeds in shorter-term instruments is expected to reduce 2005 net interest income by approximately $4 million to $5 million. MORGAN KEEGAN POSTS STRONG EARNINGS "While down from first quarter's record level, Morgan Keegan's second quarter earnings were strong," said Regions Vice Chairman and Morgan Keegan Chairman Allen B. Morgan Jr. Revenues and after-tax profits dipped to $195.6 million and $24.5 million, respectively, from first quarter's $204.3 million and $26.2 million. First quarter 2005 was a record quarter for investment banking; as this business returned to a more normalized level in the second quarter, the fixed income and investment advisory businesses advanced. "Morgan Keegan's second-quarter results demonstrate the benefits of its diversified business mix," Morgan said. "While we can't control or predict market conditions, we are pleased with our momentum entering the second half of 2005." Continued Next Page
July 15, 2005 Page 3 MORTGAGE BANKING PROFITS IMPROVE, DRIVEN BY NON-CONFORMING UNIT'S REBOUND Earnings of EquiFirst, Regions' non-conforming mortgage operation, rebounded to $9.6 million in the second quarter from the preceding period's $4.8 million. Origination volume picked up to $2.5 billion from $1.7 billion and sales volume also increased from first-quarter depressed levels, lifting the gain on sale revenues. Conforming mortgage earnings were $2.2 million (excludes $53 million mortgage servicing rights impairment charge) compared to first quarter's $5.2 million (excludes $35 million mortgage servicing rights recapture). Without a second quarter intercompany allocation that shifted $3.1 million in net interest income to the treasury division, conforming mortgage earnings would have been steady linked quarter. Although second quarter retail origination volume edged up to $1.3 billion from the prior quarter's $1 billion, total conforming originations were down slightly to $2 billion (from first quarter's $2.1 billion) due to Regions' exit of the conforming wholesale origination business. Effective May 1, 2005, M&T Mortgage Corporation assumed the related assets and liabilities of the conforming wholesale operations; wholesale production in the quarter was $423 million. (Regions' conforming mortgage earnings are not expected to be significantly impacted by the exit of the wholesale origination business.) "Regions' conforming mortgage business is still not operating as efficiently or profitably as we would like," said Regions CEO Moore. "While we have implemented some strategic decisions already in this line of business, we are continuing to evaluate the unit's business plan and adopt measures to improve performance. "Also, while we are pleased with EquiFirst's second quarter results, we're cognizant that our overall mortgage business still faces challenges from potentially higher interest rates and industry competitive pressures," he continued. "Mortgage banking is a valuable part of Regions' business mix -- our aim is to profitably position it for both industry upturns and downturns." EXPENSE CONTROL REMAINS A PRIORITY Regions' second-quarter operating expenses declined to $718 million, excluding the $53 million mortgage servicing rights impairment charge, $43.8 million of merger-related costs and $2.7 million of Capital Factors expenses. This compares to first quarter's $722 million (excluding a $35 million mortgage servicing rights reserve recapture benefit, $38.9 million of merger costs and $8.6 million of Capital Factors expenses). First quarter expenses were adjusted to reflect second quarter's reclassification of hedging expense associated with mortgage loan sales from "Other Non-Interest Expense" to gain on sale of mortgage loans included in "Other Non-Interest Income," in accordance with general industry practice. An incremental $4.8 million in merger-related cost saves positively impacted second quarter expenses as did reduced payroll expenses and other seasonal expense reductions. In total, second quarter expenses benefited from $29.1 million in merger saves. Moore said the company's leadership has improving Region's operating efficiency as a key goal, and is seeing progress toward it through the achievement of merger cost-save objectives. The second quarter 2005 efficiency ratio (excluding items in table on page 5) was 61.5%, down from 62.6% in the first quarter of 2005. "We're very focused on identifying new opportunities to rein in core costs," Moore said, "and we should see more progress toward our merger cost-save goals as savings from branch consolidations and conversions continue to emerge." Continued Next Page
July 15, 2005 Page 4 NON-PERFORMING ASSETS DROP Regions continued to maintain strong credit quality in the second quarter. Non-performing assets declined to $455.8 million (0.78 percent of loans and other real estate) as of June 30, 2005, compared to $487.1 million as of March 31, 2005. Second-quarter net loan charge-offs increased to $34.1 million, or an annualized 0.23 percent of average loans, from first quarter's unusually low $24.7 million. A $10 million partial write-down of a single large credit discussed in previous public disclosures accounted for the quarterly jump. Provisioning of $32.5 million, which considers the $5 million previously reserved in connection with this large credit, raised the year-to-date total to $62.5 million and resulted in a June 30, 2005, loan loss allowance-to-total loans ratio of 1.30 percent. ACTIVELY MANAGING EXCESS CAPITAL During the second quarter, Regions used excess capital to repurchase 4 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $33.54 per share. This brought the first half buyback total to 8.5 million shares. A similar level of buybacks is anticipated for the second half of 2005. Tangible stockholders' equity to tangible common assets was 6.68 percent at June 30, 2005, compared to 6.72 percent at March 31, 2005. ABOUT REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF), headquartered in Birmingham, Ala., is a full-service provider of retail and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage, and insurance products and services. Regions had $85.3 billion in assets as of June 30, 2005, making it one of the nation's Top 15 financial services providers. Regions' banking subsidiary, Regions Bank (which does business in some locations as Union Planters Bank), operates some 1,400 offices and a 1,700-ATM network across a 15-state geographic footprint in the South, Midwest and Texas. Its investment and securities brokerage, trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from nearly 250 offices. Additional information about Regions, which is a member of both the Forbes and Fortune 500 and has one of the top mortgage companies in the United States, can be found at www.regions.com. Continued Next Page
July 15, 2005 Page 5 RECONCILIATION TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The table below presents the computation of earnings excluding certain significant items affecting financial results. These significant items are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the exclusion of the significant items in expressing earnings provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons. See the table below for computation of earnings excluding significant items and corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures for the periods presented. (1)Positive/(negative) impact on GAAP earnings (2)Results prior to third quarter 2004 are for legacy Regions, as the merger (accounted for as a purchase transaction) with Union Planters was not effective until July 1, 2004. However, prior period per share amounts have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004. (3)Adoption of EITF 03-6 "Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share," reduced earnings per share $.01 for the three month period ending June 30, 2004 and reduced earnings per share less than $.01 for the three month period ending September 30, 2004. It had no impact on earnings per share for periods following September 30, 2004. Continued Next Page
July 15, 2005 Page 6 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (UNAUDITED) (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) *Annualized Results prior to third quarter 2004 are for legacy Regions, as the merger (accounted for as a purchase transaction) with Union Planters was not effective until July 1, 2004. However, prior period per share amounts have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004. For additional information, including supplemental financial information, refer to Regions' Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 15, 2005, or visit Regions' Web site at www.regions.com. Regions' Investor Relations contact is Jenifer Goforth at 205/244-2823; Regions' Media contact is Kristi Lamont Ellis at 205/326-7179. Statements made in this press release, other than those containing historical information, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. Regions cautions readers that results and events subject to forward-looking statements could differ materially due to the following factors: possible changes in economic and business conditions; the existence or exacerbation of general geopolitical instability and uncertainty; the ability of Regions to integrate recent acquisitions and attract new customers; possible changes in monetary and fiscal policies, and laws and regulations; the effects of easing of restrictions on participants in the financial services industry; the cost and other effects of legal and administrative cases; possible changes in the credit worthiness of customers and the possible impairment of collectibility of loans; the effects of changes in interest rates and other risks and factors identified in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ###
[REGIONS FINANCIAL CORP. LOGO] FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE SUMMARY Quarterly earnings of $0.53 per diluted share - - Equates to $0.59 per diluted share, excluding merger charges of $0.06 per share (see page 2 for add'l details) - - Earnings driven by net interest income increase, continued low credit costs and merger cost saves Banking results continue to advance - - Quarterly FTE net interest income increased 8.8% linked-quarter, annualized, to $716.5 million - - Community banking loan growth of 4%, linked-quarter average, annualized, driven by commercial real estate and home equity lines of credit - - Community banking deposit growth of 5%, linked-quarter average, annualized, primarily attributable to increased interest-free deposits and retail CD's, offset by a decline in money-market deposits Morgan Keegan's balanced business mix produces strong results in difficult market - - Profit of $24.5 million, a decline from first quarter 2005's record $26.2 million - - Revenues of $195.6 million compared to $204.3 million in the first quarter - - Decline driven primarily by reduction in unusually strong 1Q05 investment banking activity Conforming mortgage strategy implementation continues - - Exit of conforming wholesale mortgage business in April - - Decline in conforming origination volume to $2.0 billion in 2Q05 compared to $2.1 billion in 1Q05 as a result of exit of wholesale business, partially offset by increased retail activity Record EquiFirst results - - 46% increase in non-conforming origination volume to $2.5 billion in 2Q05 from $1.7 billion in 1Q05 - - Net income of $9.6 million - - Regions remains cautious regarding ability to maintain premium levels in late 2005 and 2006 Low net charge-offs and improved non-performing assets - - Quarterly net charge-offs of $34.1 million or 23 bps. of average loans, annualized - - Net charge-offs include $10 million charge for single credit - - Non-performing assets declined 6% to $455.8 million or 0.78% of loans and other real estate at June 30, 2005, compared to $487.1 million and 0.84% at March 31, 2005 Incremental merger cost saves of $4.8 million realized this quarter - - Total cost saves of $29.1 million in the quarter for cumulative $53.5 million in 2005 - - On track for cumulative $130-$150 million of cost saves for 2005 - - Incremental $6.1 million linked quarter spent on previously outlined investment initiatives - - Total investment initiative spending of $13.8 million in 2Q05 for cumulative $21.6 million in 1H05 Merger integration remains on plan - - 137 legacy Union Planters branches converted successfully in April - - Continued to have positive deposit account trends with open/close ratio of 1.22 for quarter - - Event Two conversion planned for August includes 205 branches - - Raised total merger-related charges estimate to $350MM
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 2 SIGNIFICANT ITEMS AFFECTING EARNINGS RECONCILIATION TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The table below presents computations of earnings excluding certain significant items affecting financial results. These significant items are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the exclusion of the significant items in expressing earnings provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons. See the table below for computations of earnings excluding significant items and corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures for the periods presented. SIGNIFICANT ITEMS AFFECTING REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION EARNINGS ($ in millions, except diluted per share amounts) (1) Positive/(negative) impact on GAAP earnings. (2) Results prior to third quarter 2004 are for legacy Regions, as the merger (accounted for as a purchase transaction) with Union Planters was not effective until July 1, 2004. However, prior period per share amounts have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004. (3) Effective second quarter 2004 and retroactively applied, EITF 03-6, "Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share," requires a portion of earnings to be allocated to participating securities using the two-class method described in FAS 128. Regions repurchased 4.0 million shares through an accelerated stock repurchase agreement entered into March 9, 2004 which included a forward agreement, considered a participating security. First and second quarter 2004 earnings were reduced by $0.01 per basic and diluted share each quarter as a result of the application of this EITF. As the position was closed out during the third quarter, basic and diluted EPS for the third quarter were reduced by less than $0.01 per share.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 3 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION (UNAUDITED) ($ amounts in thousands) (1) June 30, 2004, Common Stock and Surplus has been restated to post-merger terms, giving effect to the change in par value from $0.625 per share to $0.01 per share and exchange of 1.2346 shares for each 1 share of old Regions shares in connection with the July 1, 2004 merger with Union Planters (2) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 4 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED) ($ amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) (1) Share and per share amounts for all periods presented prior to 9/30/04 have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger with Union Planters Corporation, which was effective July 1, 2004. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004. (2) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 5 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED) ($ amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) (1) Share and per share amounts for all periods presented prior to 9/30/04 have been restated to reflect the exchange of Regions shares in connection with the merger with Union Planters Corporation, which was effective July 1, 2004. Each Regions shareholder received 1.2346 shares for each 1.0 share held on July 1, 2004. (2) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 6 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE DAILY BALANCES AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS ($ amounts in thousands; yields on taxable equivalent basis) (1) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 7 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE DAILY BALANCES AND YIELD/RATE ANALYSIS ($ amounts in thousands; yields on taxable equivalent basis) REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES ($ amounts in thousands) (1) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 8 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED RATIOS *Annualized (1) Per share information has been restated to post-merger terms, giving effect to the 1.2346 for 1.0 exchange ratio that was applied to Regions shares in connection with the July 1, 2004 merger with Union Planters. (2) Regions Financial Corporation and Union Planters Corporation merged effective July 1, 2004. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions. As a result, periods ending prior to July 1, 2004, reflect legacy Regions Financial data on a stand-alone basis.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 9 LOANS LOAN PORTFOLIO - PERIOD END DATA LOAN PORTFOLIO - AVERAGE BALANCES AVERAGE COMMUNITY BANKING AND WHOLESALE LOANS *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Average community banking loans increased 4% linked-quarter, annualized, primarily due to growth in real estate loans and consumer lines of credit. - - Total loan growth on an average basis increased 5% linked-quarter, annualized, primarily due to growth in construction loans and consumer lines of credit. - - The sale of Capital Factors in 2Q05 reduced period end commercial loans by approximately $240 million. - - Excluding Capital Factors, linked quarter period end commercial loan growth would have increased slightly and total period end loan growth would have been approximately $600 million or 4%, annualized. Linked quarter average loan growth would have been approximately $840 million or 6%, annualized.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 10 DEPOSITS DEPOSIT PORTFOLIO - PERIOD END DATA AVERAGE COMMUNITY BANKING AND WHOLESALE DEPOSITS *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Drivers of deposit growth were interest-free deposits and retail CD's, offset partially by a decline in interest-bearing checking and money market deposits. - - Interest-free deposits increased 19%, linked-quarter, annualized due primarily to the continuing roll-out and strong reception to free consumer and business checking accounts. The decline in interest-bearing checking and money market deposits can also be partially attributed to the free checking offering. - - The increase in retail certificate of deposit balances is a result of a change in customer preference toward longer-term, higher rate deposits in combination with Regions' competitive pricing levels. This preference change also has an opposite effect on money market deposits. - - Average wholesale banking deposits increased 14%, linked-quarter, primarily due to the attractiveness of these deposits as a source of funding during the quarter, relative to other funding sources. - - The open/close ratio for DDA accounts during the quarter was 1.22 compared to 1.31 in 1Q05.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 11 OPERATING PERFORMANCE (1) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation. *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - The net interest margin increased from 3.84% in 1Q05 to 3.85% in 2Q05. - - Regions is positioned slightly asset-sensitive at June 30, 2005, and expects to remain slightly asset-sensitive for the near term. - - Capital Factors was sold in late April. Excluding Capital Factors from both quarters, total revenue would have increased approximately 1% or 5%, annualized, linked-quarter.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 12 NON-INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE NON-INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE Non-interest Income NON-INTEREST EXPENSE (1) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation. *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. ** Net of merger and other charges. - - Service charges on deposit accounts increased $7.8 million from 1Q05's seasonally weak level. NSF/OD fees rebounded from previous unusually low levels; however, free checking, commercial service fees and the replacement of legacy Union Planters' fee structure with Regions' somewhat lower fee structure are all continuing to impact total service charges on deposit accounts. - - Mortgage servicing and origination fees declined as a result of the decline in conforming wholesale origination volume linked quarter. - - $1.1 billion of bonds were sold at a gain of $53.4 million in conjunction with the recognition of $53.0 million of mortgage servicing rights impairment. o Insurance premiums and commission revenues declined $2.7 million primarily as a result of seasonally higher commissions in 1Q05. - - Derivative income increased approximately $5.9 million in 2Q05 as customers chose to swap floating rate loans to fixed rate loans given the flat yield curve environment and as penetration of the Union Planters customer base continued to produce additional sales of customer derivative products. - - Capital Factors was sold in late April. Its contribution to non-interest income was $2.4 million and $7.3 million in 2Q05 and 1Q05, respectively. Its contribution to non-interest expense was $2.7 million and $8.6 million in 2Q05 and 1Q05, respectively. - - Other non-interest income decreased $8.3 million linked quarter as a result of several smaller decreases in areas such as trading account income, safe deposit fees and investments in low income housing. - - Salaries and employee benefits expense declined primarily as a result of reduced headcount, lower payroll taxes and reduced Morgan Keegan commission expense, partially offset by higher EquiFirst commission expense related to increased 2Q05 production. - - Total cost saves in 2Q05 were $29.1 million, an incremental $4.8 million compared to 1Q05's $24.4 million.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 13 NON-INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE (CONTINUED) - - Total spending on previously announced investment initiatives was $13.8 million, an incremental $6.1 million over 1Q05. - - Total non-interest expense declined approximately $3 million on a linked-quarter comparison, excluding the effect of merger-related expenses, impairment/recapture of MSR's and non-interest expenses related to Capital Factors. - - Note that previous periods have been adjusted to reflect the reclassification of hedging expense associated with mortgage loan sales from "Other non-interest expense" to "Gain on sale of mortgage loans", in accordance with general industry practice.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 14 MORGAN KEEGAN *Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Principal transaction revenue declined $2.9 million linked quarter as a result of a decline in customer trading activity. - - Investment banking revenue declined $9.5 million as equity deal flow slowed from record levels in 1Q05. - - Interest revenues increased $1.9 million in connection with an increase in margin account balances. - - Investment advisory revenues increased linked quarter primarily as a result of continued focus on asset management accounts as well as growth in Morgan Asset Management. - - Non-interest expenses declined $9.7 million primarily as a result of a decline in commission expenses. - - Interest expense increased as interest on customer credit declined and as internal borrowing costs increased. - - Private client revenues declined $3.0 million linked-quarter as equity trading activity levels were lower in 2Q05 than in 1Q05. - - Fixed income capital markets revenues increased $1.8 million linked-quarter due to a slight increase in fixed income banking activity in 2Q05 compared to 1Q05. - - 19,500 new accounts were opened in 2Q05 compared to 21,100 in 1Q05. - - Total customer assets were $51.7 billion at June 30, 2005, compared to $48.9 billion at March 31, 2005.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 15 MORTGAGE OPERATIONS (1) Certain amounts in prior periods have been adjusted to reflect current period presentation. * Linked quarter percentage changes are presented on an annualized basis. - - Conforming mortgage production declined slightly to $2.0 billion in 2Q05 from $2.1 billion in 1Q05 due primarily to Regions' exit of the conforming wholesale mortgage business. - - Conforming wholesale production totaled $423 million in 2Q05 compared to $758 million in 1Q05. - - Non-conforming mortgage production increased from $1.7 billion in 1Q05 to $2.5 billion in 2Q05, an increase of 46%. - - Regions Mortgage gain on sale of mortgage loans for all quarters is presented net of hedging expense as discussed on page 13. - - EquiFirst's gain on sale of mortgage loans increased, linked-quarter, primarily as a result of higher sales volume in the second quarter of 2005. - - Regions Mortgage net income, excluding MSR impairment/recapture, was $2.2 million in 2Q05 compared to $5.2 million in 1Q05. 2Q05 results exclude $3.2 million in net interest income related to mortgage loans which were moved to the treasury division in 2Q05. On a comparable basis, conforming mortgage income was steady at approximately $5 million. - - EquiFirst's net income increased to $9.6 million in 2Q05 from $4.8 million in 1Q05. - - Regions Mortgage originates conforming mortgage loans and services loans originated in-house and by others. - - EquiFirst originates non-conforming mortgage loans primarily through a broker network and sells them servicing-released, on a whole loan basis, at a premium.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 16 CREDIT QUALITY - - Annualized charge-offs were 0.23% of average loans in 2Q05 compared to 0.17% of average loans in 1Q05. - - 2Q05 net charge-offs include a $10 million charge related to the previously mentioned loan relationship that was placed on non-accrual status in 1Q05. The outstanding balance of approximately $50 million remains in non-accrual loans. - - During 2Q05 non-performing assets declined $31.2 million to $455.8 million compared to $487.1 million in 1Q05. - - At June 30, 2005, non-performing assets totaled 0.78% of loans and other real estate compared to 0.84% at March 31, 2005. - - Regions' non-performing loan portfolio is composed primarily of small to medium-sized loans that are diversified geographically throughout its franchise. - - Management considers the current level of the allowance for loan losses adequate to absorb probable losses from loans in the portfolio. Management's determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses requires the use of judgments and estimates that may change in the future. Unfavorable changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the reserve, or the availability of new information, could cause the allowance for loan losses to be increased or decreased in future periods.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 17 ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL DATA - - Regions has Board of Directors authorization to repurchase up to 20 million shares of common stock. - - During the second quarter, 4 million shares were repurchased. MERGER-RELATED AND OTHER CHARGES (Pre-tax dollars in millions) (1) Projections provided by management at time of merger announcement, January 23, 2004, and updated at 6/30/05. (2) Projections provided by Union Planters management in 4Q03 press release.
FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT TO SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS RELEASE PAGE 18 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The information contained in this press release may include forward-looking statements that reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The forward-looking statements are based only on current expectations and general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs, and projections expressed in such statements. Such forward-looking statements are made in good faith by Regions pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions signify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Regions. Any such statement speaks only as of the date the statement was made. Regions undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Some factors that may affect the accuracy of our projections apply generally to the financial services industry, including: (1) the easing of restrictions on participants in the financial services industry, such as banks, securities brokers and dealers, investment companies, and finance companies, may increase our competitive pressures; (2) possible changes in interest rates may increase our funding costs and reduce our earning asset yields, thus reducing our margins; (3) possible changes in general economic and business conditions in the United States and the South, in general, and in the communities we serve, in particular, may lead to a deterioration in credit quality, thereby increasing our provisioning costs, or a reduced demand for credit, thereby reducing our earning assets; (4) the existence or exacerbation of general geopolitical instability and uncertainty, including the threat or occurrence of acts of terror or the occurrence or escalation of hostilities; (5) possible changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws, and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations, including changes in accounting standards, may have an adverse effect on our business; and (6) possible changes in consumer and business spending and saving habits could have an effect on our ability to grow our assets and to attract deposits. Other factors that may affect the accuracy of our projections are specific to Regions, including: (1) the cost and other effects of material contingencies, including litigation contingencies; (2) our ability to expand into new markets and to maintain profit margins in the face of pricing pressures; (3) our ability to keep pace with technological changes; (4) our ability to develop competitive new products and services in a timely manner and the acceptance of such products and services by Regions' customers and potential Regions customers; (5) our ability to effectively manage interest rate risk and other market risk, credit risk and operational risk; (6) our ability to manage fluctuations in the value of our assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures so as to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity to support our business; and (7) our ability to achieve the earnings expectations related to the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future, which in turn depends on a variety of factors, including: our ability to achieve anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements with respect to acquired operations; the assimilation of acquired operations to the Regions corporate culture, including the ability to instill our credit practices and efficient approach to acquired operations; and the continued growth of the markets that the acquired entities serve, consistent with recent historical experience. In addition, statements made in this financial supplement and the accompanying press release, other periodic reports filed by Regions with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of Regions may include forward looking statements relating to the benefits of the merger between Regions and Union Planters Corporation, including future financial and operating results, and Regions' plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. The following factors, among those addressed above and others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements: (1) the level and timeliness of realization, if any, of expected cost savings and revenue synergies from the merger; (2) difficulties related to the operational effects of the merger and the integration of the businesses of Regions and Union Planters, including integration of information systems and retention of key personnel; (3) disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients, employees or suppliers; (4) a materially adverse change in the financial condition of Regions, Union Planters or the combined company; (5) lower than expected revenues following the merger (6) other difficulties resulting from the merger. Regions' Investor Relations contact is Jenifer M. Goforth at (205) 244-2823; Regions' Media contact is Kristi Lamont Ellis at (205) 326-7179.


