FILE:RF/RF-8K-20060707170726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 30, 2006 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 0-6159 63-0589368 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.)
417 North 20th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35203 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)
(205) 944-1300 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A DEFINITIVE MATERIAL AGREEMENT On June 30, 2006: * -- the company and John I. Fleischauer, Jr., regional chief executive officer/western region, executed an amended and restated employment agreement. * -- the company and Ronald C. Jackson, senior vice president and comptroller, executed an amendment to change of control agreement. * -- the company and Doyle R. Rippee, executive vice president, corporate banking, executed an amendment to change of control agreement. One purpose of the amendment to the agreement with Mr. Fleischauer and the agreement with Mr. Jackson is to bring the respective agreement into compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). The modifications to comply with Section 409A of the Code are effective as of January 1, 2005, and affect primarily the timing and form of payment of benefits payable under the respective agreement following a termination of employment. In the case of each of the three executive officers, the Regions-Union Planters merger on July 1, 2004, constituted a "change of control" within the meaning of the agreement. Each agreement provided for a period (the "UP election window period") during which the officer could terminate his employment and have the separation from service treated as a termination for good reason following such change of control, entitling him to receive payment of accrued compensation and benefits plus an amount equal to a multiple (3x in the case of Mr. Fleischauer, 2x in the case of Mr. Jackson, and 2x in the case of Mr. Rippee) of the sum of his base salary and highest annual bonus during the three years preceding calendar year 2004 (the year in which the change of control occurred) or the year preceding the year in which separation from service occurs. The amendment to the agreement with Mr. Fleischauer extends the expiration of his UP election window period from June 30, 2006, until December 31, 2006. The amendment to the agreement with Mr. Jackson extends the expiration of his UP election window period from June 30, 2006, until January 1, 2007, and also provides that if he remains employed by Regions through December 31, 2006, he will be entitled to a bonus payable under Regions' corporate bonus plan for 2006. The amendment to the agreement with Mr. Rippee changes his UP election window period from the month of June 2006 to the month of June 2007. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The exhibits listed in the exhibit index are filed as a part of this current report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Registrant) By: /s/ D. Bryan Jordan ------------------------------------ D. Bryan Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Date: July 7, 2006
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 99.1 AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AGREEMENT by and between Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and John I. Fleischauer, Jr. ("Executive"), dated as of May 1, 2006 amending and restating the employment agreement first entered into on September 1, 2001 and amended on March 1, 2005. The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company. The Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change of Control and to encourage Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change of Control, and to provide Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change of Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations. Therefore, in order to accomplish these objectives, the Board has caused the Company to enter into this Agreement. The Company and Executive now amend the Agreement to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). In order to comply with Section 409A and to take advantage of transition rules in the Treasury Regulations under Section 409A, this amendment and restatement is effective January 1, 2005, notwithstanding the fact that it is executed in 2006. The Company and Executive agree that, in the event of ambiguity, this Agreement is to be interpreted to comply with Section 409A (or alternatively, to take advantage of any applicable exemption, exception, transition rule or mitigation, or any definition which excludes a payment from being deferred compensation). Further, strictly for purposes of clarity, the Company and Executive acknowledge that a Change of Control (as defined in the Agreement prior to this amendment and restatement) occurred on July 1, 2004 with the merger of the Company and Union Planters Corporation (the "UPC Merger"). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the sole purpose of the Agreement is to amend and restate the employment agreement first entered into by the Company and Executive on September 1, 2001 as amended. The Agreement does not affect the rights of Executive under any other agreements, plans or arrangements between the Company and Executive including, but not limited to, stock option agreements, restricted stock agreements, deferred compensation plans, and compensation and bonus arrangements. NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 1. Certain Definitions. (a) The "Effective Date" shall mean the first date during the Change of Control Period (as defined in Section l(b)) on which a Change of Control (as defined in Section 2) occurs. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if a Change of Control occurs and if Executive's employment with the Company is terminated prior to the date on which the Change of
Control occurs, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by Executive that such termination of employment (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control, then for all purposes of this Agreement the "Effective Date" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment. "Effective Date" shall include, without limitation, July 1, 2004, the date of the UPC Merger. (b) The "Change of Control Period" shall mean the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the third anniversary of the date hereof; provided, however, that commencing on the date one year after the date hereof, and on each annual anniversary of such date (such date and each annual anniversary thereof shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Renewal Date"), unless previously terminated, the Change of Control Period shall be automatically extended so as to terminate three years from such Renewal Date, unless at least 60 days prior to the Renewal Date the Company shall give notice to Executive that the Change of Control Period shall not be so extended. (c) The "409A Date" shall mean the date that is six months after the date of Separation from Service. (d) "Date of Termination" shall mean (i) if Executive's employment is terminated other than by reason of death or Disability, the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein, as the case may be, or (ii) if Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be. (e) "Separation from Service" shall have the meaning given to it in Section 409A(2)(A)(i) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as such regulations may be changed from time to time. (f) "Specified Employee" shall have the meaning given to it in Section 409A(2)(B)(i) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as such regulations may be changed from time to time, with an identification date of December 31. (g) The "UPC Merger" shall mean the Merger of the Company with Union Planters Corporation, which became effective on July 1, 2004. 2. Change of Control. For the purposes of this Agreement, a "Change of Control" shall mean the UPC Merger and any subsequent occurrence of any of the following events: (a) An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities of the Company (the "Voting Securities") by any "Person" (as the term person is used for the purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) immediately after which such Person has Beneficial Ownership (within the meaning of Rule l3d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding Voting Securities; provided, however, in determining whether or not a Change of Control has occurred, Voting Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would constitute a Change of Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition by (i) any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the 2
Company or any affiliate of the Company, (ii) by the Company, or (iii) any Person in connection with a Non-Control Transaction (as hereinafter defined); (b) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or (c) The consummation of: (i) A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company in which securities of the Company are issued, unless such merger, consolidation or reorganization is a "Non-Control Transaction". A "Non-Control Transaction" is a merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in which securities of the Company are issued where: A. the shareholders of the Company immediately before such merger, consolidation, or reorganization, own, directly or indirectly, at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the corporation resulting form such merger, consolidation or reorganization (the "Surviving Corporation") in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Securities immediately before such merger, consolidation or reorganization, B. the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such merger, consolidation or reorganization constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Surviving Corporation or a corporation owning directly or indirectly fifty-one percent (51%) or more of the Voting Securities of the Surviving Corporation, and C. no person other than (i) the Company, (ii) any subsidiary of the Company, or (iii) any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) maintained by the Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation, or reorganization owns fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Surviving Corporation's then-outstanding voting securities; or (ii) A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or (iii) The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the outstanding Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, provided 3
that if a Change of Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) and after such acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Voting Securities, then a Change of Control shall occur. 3. Employment Period. The Company hereby agrees to continue Executive in its employ, and Executive hereby agrees to remain in the employ of the Company subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the third anniversary of such date (the "Employment Period"). 4. Terms of Employment. (a) Position and Duties. (i) During the Employment Period, (A) Executive's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties and responsibilities shall be at least commensurate in all material respects with the most significant of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date and (B) Executive's services shall be performed at the location where Executive was employed immediately preceding the Effective Date or any office or location less than 35 miles from such location. (ii) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which Executive is entitled, Executive agrees to devote reasonable attention and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to Executive hereunder, to use Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Employment Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any such activities have been conducted by Executive prior to the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or the conduct of activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to the Effective Date shall not thereafter be deemed to interfere with the performance of Executive's responsibilities to the Company. (b) Compensation. (i) Base Salary. During the Employment Period, Executive shall receive an annual base salary ("Annual Base Salary") at a rate at least equal to the rate of base salary in effect on the date of this Agreement or, if greater, on the Effective Date, paid or payable (including any base salary which has been earned but deferred) to Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies. During the Employment Period, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed no more than 12 months after the last salary increase awarded to Executive prior to the Effective Date and thereafter at least annually. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or reduce any other obligation to Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase and the term Annual Base Salary as used in this Agreement shall refer to Annual Base Salary as so increased. As used in this Agreement, the term "affiliated companies" shall include any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company. 4
(ii) Annual Bonus. In addition to Annual Base Salary, Executive shall be awarded, for each fiscal year ending during the Employment Period, an annual bonus (the "Annual Bonus") in cash at least equal to Executive's highest bonus under the Company's Management Incentive Bonus Plan, or any comparable bonus under any predecessor or successor plans, for the last three full fiscal years prior to the Effective Date (annualized in the event that Executive was not employed by the Company for the whole of such fiscal year) (the "Recent Annual Bonus"). Each such Annual Bonus shall be paid no later than the end of the third month of the fiscal year next following the fiscal year for which the Annual Bonus is awarded, unless Executive shall elect to defer the receipt of such Annual Bonus. (iii) Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans. During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to participate in all incentive, savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs applicable generally to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide Executive with incentive opportunities (measured with respect to both regular and special incentive opportunities, to the extent, if any, that such distinction is applicable), savings opportunities and retirement benefit opportunities, in each case, less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies for Executive under such plans, practices, policies and programs as in effect at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or if more favorable to Executive, those provided generally at any time after the Effective Date to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. (iv) Welfare Benefit Plans. During the Employment Period, Executive and/or Executive's eligible dependents, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in and shall receive all benefits under welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company and its affiliated companies (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent applicable generally to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide Executive with benefits which are less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of such plans, practices, policies and programs in effect for Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to Executive, those provided generally at any time after the Effective Date to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. (v) Expenses. During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by Executive in accordance with the most favorable policies, practices and procedures of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. (vi) Fringe Benefits. During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to fringe benefits, including, without limitation, tax and financial planning services, payment of club dues, and, if applicable, use of an automobile and payment of related expenses, in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately 5
preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. (vii) Office and Support Staff. During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to exclusive personal secretarial and other assistance, at least equal to the most favorable of the foregoing provided to Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to Executive, as provided generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. (viii) Vacation. During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company and its affiliated companies as in effect for Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. 5. Termination of Employment. (a) Death or Disability. Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon Executive's death during the Employment Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability of Executive has occurred during the Employment Period (pursuant to the definition of Disability set forth below), it may give to Executive written notice in accordance with Section 13(b) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate Executive's employment. In such event, Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" shall mean the absence of Executive from Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to Executive or Executive's legal representative. (b) Cause. The Company may terminate Executive's employment during the Employment Period for Cause. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean: (i) the willful and continued failure of Executive to perform substantially Executive's reasonably assigned duties with the Company or one of its affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness or from the assignment to Executive of duties that would constitute Good Reason under Section 5(c)(i), and specifically excluding any failure by Executive, after reasonable efforts, to meet performance expectations), which failure continues for a period of at least 30 days after a written demand for substantial performance, signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company, has been delivered to Executive which specifically identifies the manner in which Executive has failed to substantially performed his duties; provided, however, that no failure to perform by Executive after a Notice of Termination is given to the Company by Executive shall constitute Cause for purposes of this Agreement, or 6
(ii) the willful engaging by Executive in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act, on the part of Executive, shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by Executive in bad faith or without reasonable belief that Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. The cessation of employment of Executive shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to Executive and Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, Executive is guilty of the conduct described in subparagraph (i) or (ii) above, and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. (c) Good Reason. Executive's employment may be terminated by Executive for Good Reason. For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean: (i) the assignment to Executive of any duties inconsistent in any respect with Executive's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 4(a) of this Agreement, or any other action by the Company which results in a diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities, excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by Executive; (ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4(b) of this Agreement, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by Executive; (iii) the Company's requiring Executive to be based at any office or location other than as provided in Section 4(a)(i)(B) hereof or the Company's requiring Executive to travel on Company business to a substantially greater extent than required immediately prior to the Effective Date; (iv) any purported termination by the Company of Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; (v) any failure by the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 12(c) of this Agreement; (vi) any other material breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement; or 7
(vii) a termination of employment by Executive for any reason during the 30-day period immediately following the first anniversary of the Change of Control; provided, however, that with respect to the UPC Merger, such termination must occur during the period beginning on July 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2006. Good Reason shall not include Executive's death or Disability. Executive's continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any circumstance constituting Good Reason hereunder. For purposes of this Section 5(c), any good faith determination of "Good Reason" made by Executive shall be conclusive. (d) Notice of Termination. Any termination by the Company or Executive shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 13(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of Executive's employment under the provision so indicated, and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date. If a dispute exists concerning the provisions of this Agreement that apply to Executive's termination of employment, the parties shall pursue the resolution of such dispute with reasonable diligence. Within five (5) days of such a resolution, any party owing any payments pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement shall make all such payments together with interest accrued thereon at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code. The failure by Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of Executive or the Company, respectively, hereunder or preclude Executive or the Company, respectively, from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder. 6. Obligations of the Company upon Termination. (a) Termination by Executive for Good Reason; Termination by the Company Other Than for Cause or Disability. If, during the Employment Period, the Company shall terminate Executive's employment other than for Cause or Disability, or Executive shall terminate employment for Good Reason: (i) The Company shall pay to Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the Date of Termination the aggregate of the following amounts: A. the sum of (1) Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, (2) the product of (x) the higher of (I) the Recent Annual Bonus or (II) the Annual Bonus paid or payable, including any bonus or portion thereof which has been earned but deferred (and annualized for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or during which Executive was employed for less than twelve full months), for the most recently completed fiscal year during the Employment Period, if any (such higher amount being referred to as the "Highest Annual Bonus") and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365, (3) any accrued vacation pay to the extent not theretofore paid, and (4) unless Executive has elected a different payout date in a prior deferral election, any compensation previously deferred by Executive (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon) to the 8
extent not theretofore paid (the sum of the amounts described in clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Accrued Obligations"); and B. the amount equal to the product of (1) three and (2) the sum of (x) Executive's Annual Base Salary and (y) the Highest Annual Bonus. (ii) For three years after the Date of Termination, or such longer period as may be provided by the terms of the appropriate plan, program, practice or policy, the Company shall continue benefits to Executive and/or Executive's eligible dependents at least equal to those which would have been provided to them in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section 4(b)(iv) of this Agreement if Executive's employment had not been terminated or, if more favorable to Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families, provided, however, that if Executive becomes re-employed with another employer and is eligible to receive medical or other welfare benefits under another employer provided plan, the medical and other welfare benefits described herein shall be secondary to those provided under such other plan during such applicable period of eligibility. For purposes of determining eligibility (but not the time of commencement of benefits) of Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans, practices, programs and policies, Executive shall be considered to have remained employed until three years after the Date of Termination and to have retired on the last day of such period. Notwithstanding the above, the following shall apply to the provision of the medical, dental and prescription drug benefits under Section 4(b)(iv). Such benefits shall be paid upon a Separation from Service. However, if Executive is a Specified Employee, the following provisions shall apply. To the extent such benefits are provided under a plan to which the "continuation coverage" provisions of Section 601, et seq., of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and Section 4980B of the Code ("COBRA") apply, Executive shall elect COBRA continuation coverage and shall pay COBRA premium payments as they come due from the Date of Termination to the 409A Date. Executive will be reimbursed by the Company for all such COBRA premium payments within 30 days after the 409A Date. To the extent such benefits are not provided under a plan or arrangement to which COBRA applies, Executive shall pay to the Company the value of such benefits and shall be reimbursed for such payments within 30 days after the 409A Date. (iii) For the 18-month period beginning on the Date of Termination, the Company shall, at its sole expense as incurred, provide Executive with outplacement services the scope and provider of which shall be selected by Executive in his sole discretion. (iv) To the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the Company shall timely pay or provide to Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which Executive is eligible to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliated companies (such other amounts and benefits shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Other Benefits"). (b) Death. If Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall be paid to Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. With respect to the provision of Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as 9
used in this Section 6(b) shall include without limitation, and Executive's estate and/or beneficiaries shall be entitled to receive, benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits provided by the Company and affiliated companies to the estates and beneficiaries of peer executives of the Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to death benefits, if any, as in effect with respect to other peer executives and their beneficiaries at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to Executive's estate and/or Executive's beneficiaries, as in effect on the date of Executive's death. (c) Disability. If Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to Executive, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. With respect to the provision of Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as used in this Section 6(c) shall include, and Executive shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive, disability and other benefits at least equal to the most favorable of those generally provided by the Company and its affiliated companies to disabled executives and/or their families in accordance with such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to disability, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to Executive and/or Executive's family, as in effect at the Date of Termination. (d) Cause; Other than for Good Reason. If Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to Executive other than the obligation to pay to Executive (x) his Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination, (y) the amount of any compensation previously deferred by Executive, and (z) Other Benefits, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid. If Executive voluntarily terminates employment during the Employment Period, excluding a termination for Good Reason, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. In such case, all Accrued Obligations shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. (e) Expiration of Employment Period. If Executive's employment shall be terminated due to the normal expiration of the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to Executive, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. (f) Modifications to comply with Code Section 409A. Effective January 1, 2005, the portion of the Accrued Obligations listed in Section 6(a)(i)(A)(2) and the amounts under Section 6(a)(i)(B), if payable under Subsections 6(a), (c) or (d) above, shall not be payable within 30 days of the Date of Termination, but rather shall be payable within 30 days after Separation from Service (or, if Executive is a Specified Employee, within 30 days after the 409A Date). Effective January 1, 2005, the portion of the Accrued Obligations listed in Section 6(a)(i)(A)(4), if payable under Subsections 6(a), (c) or (d) above, shall not be payable within 30 days of the Date of Termination, but rather shall be payable in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans or agreements giving rise to the obligations, provided however that if such plans or agreements do not specify a time and manner of payment, then such obligations shall be paid in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after Separation from Service (or, if Executive is a Specified Employee, within 30 days after the 409A Date). 10
7. Non-exclusivity of Rights. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit Executive's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and for which Executive may qualify, nor, subject to Section 13(f), shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its affiliated companies. Amounts which are vested benefits or which Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its affiliated companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. 8. Full Settlement; No Mitigation. The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against Executive or others. In no event shall Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not Executive obtains other employment. 9. Costs of Enforcement. The Company agrees to pay as incurred, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which Executive may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, Executive or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code. Executive shall also be entitled to be paid all reasonable legal fees and expenses, if any, incurred in connection with any tax audit or proceeding to the extent attributable to the application of Section 4999 of the Code to any payment or benefit hereunder. Such payments shall be made within five (5) business days after delivery of Executive's respective written requests for payment accompanied with such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as the Company reasonably may require. 10. Certain Additional Payments by the Company. (a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding and except as set forth below, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 10) (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties are incurred by Executive with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. 11
(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 10(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 10, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be used in arriving at such determination, shall be made by Ernst & Young LLP or such other certified public accounting firm as may be designated by Executive (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and Executive within 15 business days of the receipt of notice from Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change of Control, Executive shall appoint another nationally recognized accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 10, shall-be paid by the Company to Executive within five days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm's determination. Notwithstanding the above, in no event will any Gross-Up Payment be made before Separation from Service (or, if Executive is a Specified Employee, the 409A Date). Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and Executive. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 10(c) and Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive. (c) Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten business days after Executive is informed in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on which it gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period sending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, Executive shall: (i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim, (ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company, (iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim, and 12
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation of the foregoing provisions of this Section 10(c), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs Executive to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to Executive, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority. (d) If, after the receipt by Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 10(c), Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of Section 10(c)) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 10(c), a determination is made that- Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30 days after such determination, then such advance shall-be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid. 11. Confidential Information. Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its affiliated companies, and their respective businesses, which shall have been obtained by Executive during Executive's employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and which shall not be or become public knowledge (other than by acts by Executive or representatives of Executive in violation of this Agreement). After termination of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company or as may otherwise be required by law or legal process, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it. In no event shall an asserted violation of the provisions of this Section 11 constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amounts otherwise payable to Executive under this Agreement. 12. Successors. 13
(a) This Agreement is personal to Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive's legal representatives. (b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. (c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise. 13. Miscellaneous. (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Alabama, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than-by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. (b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to Executive: [address omitted] If to the Company: Regions Financial Corporation P. O. Box 10247 Birmingham, Alabama 35202 Attention: General Counsel or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee. (c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. (d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation. (e) Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right Executive or the Company may have 14
hereunder, including, without limitation, the right of Executive to terminate employment for Good Reason pursuant to Section 5(c)(i)-(v) of this Agreement, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement. (f) Executive and the Company acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between Executive and the Company, the employment of Executive by the Company is "at will" and, subject to Section 1(a) hereof, Executive's employment and/or this Agreement may be terminated by either Executive or the Company at any time prior to the Effective Date, in which case Executive shall have no further rights under this Agreement. From and after the Effective Date this Agreement shall supersede any other agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive has hereunto set Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written. /s/ John I. Fleischauer, Jr. ---------------------------------------- JOHN I. FLEISCHAUER, JR. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: /s/ Harry Dinken ------------------------------------ 15

EXHIBIT 99.2 AMENDMENT TO THE CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT WHEREAS, Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Ronald C. Jackson (the "Employee"), entered into a Change of Control Agreement (the "Agreement") on the 1st day of January, 2003, and amended the Agreement on March 1, 2005 to change the "free walk" month from July, 2005 to June, 2006. WHEREAS, the Company and the Employee wish to amend the Agreement for purposes of meeting the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") and guidance issued thereunder. WHEREAS, in order to comply with Section 409A and to take advantage of transition rules in the Treasury Regulations under Section 409A, this amendment is effective January 1, 2005, notwithstanding the fact that it is executed in 2006. The Company and the Employee agree that, in the event of ambiguity, this Agreement is to be interpreted to comply with Section 409A (or alternatively, to take advantage of any applicable exemption, exception, transition rule or mitigation, or any definition which excludes a payment from being deferred compensation). Strictly for purposes of clarity, the Company and the Employee acknowledge that a Change of Control (as defined in the Agreement prior to this amendment) occurred on July 1, 2004 with the merger of the Company and Union Planters Corporation (the "UPC Merger"). WHEREAS, the Company and Employee wish to amend the Agreement now to change the "free walk" month to enable the Company to continue to benefit from the services of Employee for a period of time while the Company pursues various organizational changes. NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Employee hereby agree to the following: (a) Section 1(j)(i)(G) of the Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: "(G) a termination of employment by the Employee for any reason during the 30-day period immediately following the first anniversary of the Change of Control; provided, however, that with respect to the UPC Merger, such termination may occur at any time during the period beginning July 1, 2006 and ending January 1, 2007." (b) Any payment under the Agreement consisting of Accrued Compensation shall be paid within 30 days from the Employee's Termination Date; provided, however, that to the extent Employee remains employed with the Company through December 31, 2006, Employee shall be entitled to a bonus payable under the Corporate Bonus Plan for 2006, which shall be paid no later than 120 days thereafter.
(c) Any amounts payable under the Agreement in addition to Accrued Compensation shall be paid in a single lump sum cash payment within 30 days after the date of the Employee's Separation from Service. However, in the event the Employee is a Specified Employee, such payment shall be paid on the date that is 6 months after the Employee's Separation from Service (the "409A Date") or within 30 days thereafter. Such payment, if more than 30 days after the Termination Date, shall be increased with interest from the Termination Date to the payment date specified above. The rate of interest shall be the highest interest rate on a six month certificate of deposit offered by the Company as of the last day of the month containing the Termination Date. (d) For purposes of this Amendment, the following terms shall have the following meanings: (i) "Separation from Service" shall have the meaning given to it in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as such regulations may be changed from time to time. (ii) "Specified Employee" shall have the meaning given to it in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as such regulations may be changed from time to time, with an identification date of December 31. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Employee has hereunto set the Employee's hand and, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf. /s/ Ronald C. Jackson ------------------------------------ Employee June 30, 2006 Date REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION /s/ Harry Dinken ------------------------------------ Signature June 30, 2006 Date -2-

EXHIBIT 99.3 SECOND AMENDMENT TO CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT This Amendment to that certain Change of Control Agreement (the "Agreement") by and between Doyle R. Rippee (the "Employee") and Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") is made and entered into as of the 1st day of January, 2006, by and between the Employee and the Company, to be effective as of that date. BACKGROUND The Agreement was entered into with the purpose of retaining the Employee's services notwithstanding the possibility of a sale or other Change of Control of the Company. The Company's merger with Union Planters Corporation, which became effective July 1, 2004 (the "UPC Merger"), constituted a Change of Control for purposes of the Agreement. Pursuant to the present Agreement, the Employee will be entitled to certain severance benefits if his employment with the Company and its Affiliates is terminated in a qualifying termination prior to July 1, 2006 (twenty-four (24) months following the UPC Merger). Such a qualifying termination includes the Employee's resignation for any reason during the month of June, 2006 (the 30-day period immediately preceeding July 1, 2006, the second anniversary of the UPC Merger). The Company and the Employee desire to change the Employee's election window period from June, 2006, to June, 2007. The date of the Agreement is set forth at the end of this Amendment. NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to Section 11(g) of the Agreement, and in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. Section 1(j)(i)(G) of the Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: "(G) a termination of employment by the Employee for any reason during the 30-day period immediately following the first anniversary of the Change of Control; provided, however, that with respect to the UPC Merger, such termination must occur during the 30-day period immediately preceding July 1, 2007, the third anniversary of the UPC Merger." 2. The first clause of Section 3. of the Agreement is amended to read as follows: "3. Termination of Employment. If the Employee's employment with the Company and with its Affiliates is terminated for Good Reason as defined in Section 1(j)(i)(G) of the Agreement or within twenty-four (24) months following a Change of Control (or within six (6) months prior to a Change of Control if such termination (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control), the Employee shall be entitled to the following compensation and benefits:"
3. Effect of Amendment. As amended hereby, the Agreement shall be and remain in full force and effect. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Second Amendment to the Agreement as of the date first set forth above. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: /s/ Harry Dinken ------------------------------------ Name: Harry Dinken ---------------------------------- Title: EVP Corp. HR Director --------------------------------- EMPLOYEE /s/ Doyle R. Rippee ---------------------------------------- Name: Doyle R. Rippee Date of Change of Control Agreement: January 1, 2003 -2-

EXHIBIT 99.4 FORM OF CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT AGREEMENT by and between Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and __________________ (the "Employee"), SSN ____________, dated as of the ____ day of __________, 20___. WHEREAS, The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes the possibility of the sale of the Company or that a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined) could occur, which could result in significant distraction of the Company's key personnel because of the uncertainties inherent in such a situation; and WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is essential and in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to be able to retain the services of the Employee notwithstanding the possibility of a sale or other Change of Control and to ensure the Employee's continued dedication and efforts in such an event without undue concern for the Employee's personal financial and employment security; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the respective agreements of the parties set forth herein, it is hereby agreed as follows: 1. Certain Definitions. (a) "Accrued Compensation" shall mean all amounts of compensation for services rendered to the Company or any other Affiliate that have been earned or accrued through the Termination Date but that have not been paid as of the Termination Date, including (i) base salary, (ii) reimbursement (in accordance with the Company's expense reimbursement policy) for reasonable and necessary business expenses incurred by the Employee on behalf of the Company during the period ending on the Termination Date, (iii) vacation pay and (iv) bonuses and incentive compensation: provided, however, that Accrued Compensation shall not include any amounts described in clause (i) or clause (iv) that have been deferred pursuant any salary reduction or deferred compensation elections made by the Employee. (b) "Affiliate" shall mean any entity directly or indirectly, controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company or any corporation or other entity acquiring, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all the assets and business of the Company, whether by operation of law or otherwise. (c) "Base Amount" shall mean the Employee's annual base salary at the rate in effect at the date hereof or, if greater, at any time thereafter, determined without regard to any salary reduction or deferred compensation elections made by the Employee. 1
(d) "Bonus Amount" shall mean the highest bonus or bonuses paid or payable under the Company's Management Incentive Bonus Plan in respect of any of the three (3) full fiscal years ended prior to the Termination Date or, if greater, the three (3) full fiscal years ended prior to the Change of Control. (e) "Cause" shall mean: (i) the willful and continued failure of the Employee to perform substantially the Employee's reasonably assigned duties with the Company or one of its Affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness or from the assignment to the Employee of duties with the Company or one of its Affiliates that would constitute Good Reason), which failure continued for a period of at least thirty (30) days after a written demand for substantial performance, signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company, has been delivered to the Employee specifying the manner in which the Employee has failed substantially to perform, or (ii) the willful engaging by the Employee in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company; provided, however, that no termination of the Employees employment shall be for Cause as set forth in this Section 1(e)(ii) until (A) there shall have been delivered to the Employee a copy of a written notice, signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company, setting forth that the Employee was guilty of the conduct described in this Section 1(e)(ii) and specifying the particulars thereof in detail, and (B) the Employee shall have been provided an opportunity to be heard in person by the Board. For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act, on the part of the Employee, shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. Notwithstanding anything set forth in this Agreement to the contrary, no failure to perform by the Employee after a Notice of Termination is given to the Company by the Employee shall constitute Cause for the purposes of this Agreement. (f) "Change of Control" shall mean: (i) an acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities of the Company (the "Voting Securities") by any "Person" (as the term 2
person is used for the purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") immediately after which such Person has beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule l3d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding Voting Securities; provided, however, in determining whether or not a Change of Control has occurred, Voting Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would constitute a Change of Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean (A) an acquisition by (A) any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company, (B) by the Company or (C) any Person in connection with a Non-Control Transaction (as heriafter defined). (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or (iii) The consummation of: (A) A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company in which securities of the Company are issued, unless such merger, consolidation or reorganization is a "Non-Control Transaction". A "Non-Control Transaction" is a merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in which securities of the Company are issued where: (I) the stockholders of the Company immediately before such merger, consolidation, or reorganization, own, directly or indirectly, at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the corporation resulting from such merger, consolidation or reorganization (the "Surviving Corporation") in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Securities immediately before such merger, consolidation or reorganization, 3
(II) the individuals who were members of the Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such merger, consolidation or reorganization constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Surviving Corporation or a corporation owning directly or indirectly fifty-one percent (51%) or more of the Voting Securities of the Surviving Corporation, and (III) no person other than (i) the Company, (ii) any subsidiary, (iii) any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) maintained immediately prior to such merger, consolidation, or reorganization by the Company owns fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Surviving Corporation's then-outstanding voting securities; (B) A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or (C) The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the outstanding Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, provided that if a Change of Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) and after such acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Voting Securities, then a Change of Control shall occur. (g) "Company" shall mean Regions Financial Corporation, its successors and assigns. (h) "Disability" shall mean that the Employee has become eligible to participate in the Company's long-term disability plan. (i) "Effective Date shall mean the first date on which a Change of Control occurs. (j) "Good Reason" shall mean: (i) the occurrence, after a Change of Control of any of the following events or conditions: 4
(A) a change in the Employee's status, title, position or responsibilities (including reporting responsibilities) which, in the Employee's reasonable judgement, represents a materially adverse change from his status, title, position or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior thereto; the assignment to the Employee of any duties or responsibilities which, in the Employee's reasonable judgement, are materially inconsistent with his status, title, position, responsibilities; or any removal of the Employee from or failure to reappoint or reelect him to any such offices or positions, except in connection with the termination of employment of the Employee for Disability, Cause, as a result of the Employee's death or by the Employee other than for Good Reason; (B) a reduction in aggregate of the Employee's annual base salary and bonus below the aggregate of the Base Amount and the Bonus Amount; (C) the required relocation of the Employee's principal employment location to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from the Employee's principal employment location immediately prior to the Change of Control; (D) the failure by the Company to pay to the Employee any portion of the Employee's current compensation or to pay to the Employee any portion of an installment of deferred compensation under any deferred compensation program of the Company in which the Employee participated, within seven (7) days of the date such compensation is due; (E) the failure by the Company to (I) continue in effect (without reduction in benefit level, and/or award opportunities) any material compensation or employee benefit plan in which the Employee was participating prior to the Change of Control, unless a substitute or replacement plan has been implemented which provides substantially the same compensation or benefits to the Employee or (II) provide the Employee with compensation and benefits, in the aggregate, at least equal (in terms of benefit levels and/or award opportunities) to those provided for under each compensation or other employee benefit plan, program and practice in which the Employee was participating immediately prior to the Change of Control; (F) any purported termination of the Employee's employment by the Company which is not effected pursuant to a Notice of 5
Termination satisfying the terms set forth in the definition of Notice of Termination (and, if applicable, the terms set forth in the definition of Cause); or (G) a termination of employment by the Employee for any reason during the 30-day period immediately following the first anniversary of the Change of Control. (ii) Any event described in subsection (j)(A) through (F) above which occurs within six months prior to a Change of Control and which the Employee reasonably demonstrates was at the request of a third party or otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change of Control which has been threatened or proposed and which actually occurs, shall constitute Good Reason for the purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding that it occurred prior to a Change of Control (k) "Notice of Termination" shall mean written notice, following a Change of Control, of termination of the Employee's employment signed by the Employee if to the Company or by a duly authorized officer of the Company if to the Employee, which indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement, if any, relied upon and which sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide the basis for termination of the Employee's employment under the provision so indicated. (l) "Termination Date" shall mean (i) in the case of the Employee's death, the date of the Employee's death, (ii) if the Employee's employment is terminated for Disability, thirty (30) days after Notice of Termination is given (provided that the Employee shall not have returned to the performance of the Employee's duties on a full-time basis during such thirty (30) day period and (iii) if the Employee's employment is terminated for any other reason, the date specified in the Notice of Termination (which, in the case of a termination for Cause shall not be less than thirty (30) days, and in the case of a termination for Good Reason shall not be more than sixty (60) days, from the date such Notice of Termination is given); provided however, that if within thirty (30) days after any Notice of Termination is given the party receiving such Notice of Termination in good faith notifies the other party that a dispute exists concerning the basis for the termination, the Termination Date shall be the date on which the dispute is finally determined, either by mutual written agreement of the parties, or by the final judgement, order or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction (the time for appeal therefrom having expired and no appeal having been taken). Notwithstanding the pendency of any such dispute, the Company shall continue to pay the Employee the Base Amount and continue the Employee as a participant in all compensation, incentive, bonus, pension, profit sharing, medical, hospitalization, dental, life insurance and disability benefit plans in which the Employee was participating when the Notice of Termination was given, until the dispute is finally resolved in accordance with this 6
Section whether or not the dispute is resolved in the favor of the Company, and the Employee shall not be obligated to repay to the Company any amounts paid or benefits provided pursuant to this sentence. 2. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall commence as of the date hereof, and shall continue in effect for a two (2) year term unless extended as hereinafter provided. On each monthly anniversary date of this Agreement, the term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended for one additional month unless prior to any such monthly anniversary date, the Company shall give written notice to the Employee to fix the term of this Agreement to a definite two (2) year term from the date of such notice. Upon receipt of such notice by the Employee, no further automatic extensions shall occur. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term of this Agreement shall not be extended beyond the first month during which the Employee attains age sixty-five (65). If the Employee voluntarily terminates the Employee's employment with the Company and with its Affiliates prior to a Change of Control, then this Agreement shall automatically terminate. 3. Termination of Employment. If the Employee's employment with the Company and with its Affiliates shall be terminated within twenty-four (24) months following a Change of Control, the Employee shall be entitled to the following compensation and benefits: (a) If the Employee's employment with the Company and with its Affiliates shall be terminated (i) by the Company for Cause or Disability, (ii) by reason of the Employee's death, or (iii) by the Employee other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay to the Employee the Employee's Accrued Compensation. The Employee's entitlement to any other compensation or benefits shall be determined in accordance with the Company's employee benefit plans and other applicable programs and practices then in effect. (b) If the Employee's employment with the Company and with its Affiliates shall be terminated for any reason other than as specified in Section 3(a) above, the Company shall pay to the Employee the aggregate of the Employee's Accrued Compensation plus an amount equal to two times the sum of the Employee's Base Amount and Bonus Amount as severance pay and in lieu of any further compensation for periods subsequent to the Termination Date. (c) The amounts provided for in Sections 3(a) and 3(b) shall be paid in a single lump sum cash payment within thirty (30) days after the Employee's Termination Date. (d) The severance pay and benefits provided for in this Section 3 shall be in lieu of any other severance pay to which the Employee shall be entitled under the Company's Severance Pay Plan or any other plan, agreement, or arrangement of the Company or any Affiliate. 7
4. Excise Tax Limitation. (a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any benefit, payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether payable or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise) (a "Payment") would, if paid, be subject to the excise tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"), then the Payment shall be reduced to the extent necessary of avoid the imposition of the Excise Tax. The Employee may select the Payments to be limited or reduced. (b) All determinations required to be made under this Section 4, including whether an Excise Tax would otherwise be imposed and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by Ernst & Young LLP or such other certified public accounting firm as may be designated by the Employee (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee within 15 business days of the receipt of Notice of Termination from the Employee, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change of Control, the Employee may appoint another nationally recognized accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Payments hereunder will have been unnecessarily limited by this Section 4 ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. The Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. 5. Nonexclusivity of Rights. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Employee's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its Affiliates and for which the Employee may qualify, nor, subject to Section 3(d), shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Employee may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates companies. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates at or subsequent to the Termination Date shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. 8
6. Full Settlement. The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Employee or others. In no event shall the Employee be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Employee under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Employee obtains other employment. 7. Fees and Expenses. The Company agrees to pay as incurred, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Employee about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement). 8. Successors. (a) This Agreement is personal to the Employee and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Employee otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Employee's legal representatives. (b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. (c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise. 11. Miscellaneous. (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Alabama, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. 9
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to the Employee: ___________________________ ___________________________ ___________________________ If to the Company: Regions Financial Corporation P. O. Box 10247 Birmingham, Alabama 35202 Attention: General Counsel or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee. (c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. (d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation. (e) The Employee's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right the Employee or the Company may have hereunder, including, without limitation, the right of the Employee to terminate employment for Good Reason, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement. (f) The Employee and the Company acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between the Employee and the Company, the employment of the Employee by the Company is "at will" and, subject to Section 1(j)(ii) hereof, prior the Effective Date, the Employee's employment may be terminated by either the Employee or the Company at any time, in which case the Employee shall have no further rights under this Agreement. (g) This agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties hereto and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and covenants (except as otherwise provided herein) with respect to the subject matter hereof. This agreement may be amended or canceled only by mutual agreement of the parties and only in writing. 10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Employee has hereunto set the Employee's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written. Employee REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: ------------------------- Its: Authorized Officer 11

EXHIBIT 99.5 FORM OF AMENDMENT TO CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT This Amendment to that certain Change of Control Agreement (the "Agreement") by and between ________________________ (the "Employee") and Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") is made and entered into as of the 1st day of March, 2005, by and between the Employee and the Company, to be effective as of that date. BACKGROUND The Agreement was entered into with the purpose of retaining the Employee's services notwithstanding the possibility of a sale or other Change of Control of the Company. The Company's merger with Union Planters Corporation, which became effective July 1, 2004 (the "UPC Merger"), constituted a Change of Control for purposes of the Agreement. Pursuant to the present Agreement, the Employee will be entitled to certain severance benefits if his employment with the Company and its Affiliates is terminated in a qualifying termination prior to July 1, 2006 (twenty-four (24) months following the UPC Merger). Such a qualifying termination includes the Employee's resignation for any reason during the month of July, 2005 (the 30-day period immediately following the first anniversary of the UPC Merger). The Company and the Employee desire (a) to clarify the Agreement to acknowledge that the Agreement applies both to the UPC Merger and to any future Change of Control of the Company that occurs during the term of the Agreement, and (b) to change the Employee's "free walk" period from July, 2005 to June, 2006. The date of the Agreement is set forth at the end of this Amendment. NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to Section 11(g) of the Agreement, and in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. Change of Control. It being acknowledged and agreed that the UPC Merger constituted a Change of Control for purposes of the Agreement, and that the Agreement is also intended to apply to any future Change of Control of the Company that occurs during the term of the Agreement, the Agreement is amended to add the following as a new paragraph at the end of Section 1(f): "The Company and the Employee agree and acknowledge that the UPC Merger constituted a "Change of Control" for purposes of this Agreement. References to "Change of Control" herein shall mean both the UPC Merger and any future transaction or event which constitutes a "Change in Control" of the Company pursuant to this Section 1(f); provided that, for purposes of determining whether any condition or event relates to, or occurs within a period of time prior to or following, a Change of Control, each Change in Control will be considered independently."
2. Effective Date. Section 1(i) of the Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: "'Effective Date' shall mean, with respect to the UPC Merger, July 1, 2004, and with respect to any future Change of Control, 'Effective Date' shall mean the date on which such Change of Control occurs." 3. Good Reason. Section 1(j)(i)(G) of the Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: "(G) a termination of employment by the Employee for any reason during the 30-day period immediately following the first anniversary of the Change of Control; provided, however, that with respect to the UPC Merger, such termination must occur during the 30-day period immediately preceding July 1, 2006, the second anniversary of the UPC Merger." 4. UPC Merger. The Agreement is hereby amended to add a new Section 1(m), reading as follows: "(m) 'UPC Merger' shall mean the merger of the Company with Union Planters Corporation, which became effective on July 1, 2004. 5. Effect of Amendment. As amended hereby, the Agreement shall be and remain in full force and effect. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment to the Agreement as of the date first set forth above. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: ------------------------------------ Name ----------------------------------- Title: --------------------------------- EMPLOYEE ---------------------------------------- Name: ---------------------------------- Date of Change of Control Agreement: ------------------------------------------- -2-


