FILE:RF/RF-8K-20060911171210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 6, 2006 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-6159 63-0589368 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 417 North 20th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35203 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) (205) 944-1300 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A DEFINITIVE MATERIAL AGREEMENT On September 6, 2006, for retention purposes Regions Financial Corporation implemented enhancements to the separation benefits potentially payable to certain executive officers, affecting generally those who are party to a career award agreement, an employment agreement that includes change of control provisions, or a change of control agreement with Regions. If a participant in Regions' Career Award Program is terminated without "cause" in connection with the Regions/AmSouth merger, he or she will be entitled to an increased separation payment such that it approximates the amount that would have been receivable upon a termination without "cause" or for "good reason" in connection with the Regions/Union Planters merger. Executive officers affected by this enhancement include William E. Askew, David C. Gordon, Robert A. Goethe, D. Bryan Jordan, Peter D. Miller, Andrew W. Stein, Samuel E. Upchurch, Jr., and Steve R. Vinson. A similar enhancement is being afforded to certain of the remaining executive officers who do not participate in the Regions Career Award Program and who have an existing change of control agreement (or change of control provision in an employment agreement). If an affected executive officer is terminated without "cause" in connection with the Regions/AmSouth merger, he or she will be entitled to receive upon termination the payments and benefits provided in the existing agreement for a termination following a change of control. Executive officers affected by this enhancement include John M. Daniel, H. Lynn Harton, Steve J. Schenck, and John V. White, Jr. In all instances, the increase is contingent upon the executive officer's agreeing to remain employed through a date to be specified by Regions, continuing to work regular business hours through termination, and agreeing to a waiver and release of claims in respect of his or her existing agreement. In addition, if increased benefits become payable, any remaining unvested restricted stock granted prior to the closing date of the Regions/AmSouth merger will become immediately vested upon termination of employment. In Regions' discretion, voluntarily termination in connection with a material adverse change in pay, location or responsibilities may entitle the participant to the increased separation payment, subject to further conditions and limitations. The forms of memorandum documenting this enhancement are included as exhibit 99.1 and exhibit 99.2, and are incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The exhibits listed in the exhibit index are filed as a part of this current report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Registrant) By: /s/ D. Bryan Jordan ------------------------------------- D. Bryan Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Date: September 11, 2006 INDEX TO EXHIBITS Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Form of memorandum distributed commencing September 6, 2006, to participants in the Regions Career Award Program. 99.2 Form of memorandum distributed commencing September 6, 2006, to certain Regions executive officers with change of control agreements (or change of control provisions in employment agreements).

Exhibit 99.1 Memo To: Participants in the Career Award Program [Name of Participant] From: Date: 9/5/2006 The compensation committee of the Board of Directors of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions"), with approval from AmSouth Bancorporation, has approved for retention purposes the following enhancement to the Career Award Program. Please keep this memo as documentation of your enhanced benefits. ELIGIBILITY FOR ADDITIONAL BENEFIT Selected executives of Regions signed a Career Award Agreement effective December 20, 2005, pursuant to the Career Award Program. The Career Award Agreements replaced Change of Control Agreements that were previously in effect. You are eligible for the additional benefit described herein if you satisfy all of the following conditions. 1. You had a Change of Control Agreement under which the Union Planters merger was considered a change of control and under which you were entitled to terminate for good reason; and 2. Your Change of Control Agreement was replaced by a Career Award Agreement effective December 20, 2005. If you are eligible for the additional benefit, this benefit is payable only under the following circumstances: 1. Your employment is terminated by Regions in connection with the AmSouth merger after the date of this memo and no more than two years after the effective date of the merger; 2. Your employment is not terminated for cause, as defined in the Change of Control Agreement; 3. You remain actively employed in your position and perform satisfactorily until the termination date selected by Regions. Satisfactory performance will include, among other things: maintaining your regular office hours; maintaining a high level of customer service; continuing to be actively engaged in meeting your objectives and completing your work; and working diligently with your manager and others to ensure a smooth transition upon termination; and
4. You sign a Regions approved release and waiver agreement upon your termination date. ADVERSE CHANGES At the discretion of Regions, you may be treated as terminated in connection with the AmSouth merger if you voluntarily terminate employment in connection with a material adverse change in base pay, location or responsibilities. In order to qualify under this provision, you must give at least 30 days advance notice of your desired resignation date, reach a mutually agreeable resignation date with Regions and comply with all other requirements, especially including working diligently to ensure a smooth transition of your responsibilities. For this purpose, an adverse change must have already occurred prior to your giving notice to Regions, and a promotion will not be considered adverse. A change in location will be considered adverse if your commute increases by at least 35 miles. Please note that certain organizational changes are to be expected in any merger, and such changes will not, in and of themselves, be considered adverse. Following are some examples of changes that will not, in and of themselves, be considered adverse: a change in the number of layers of management above you; a change in the person to whom you report, even if your new supervisor is at a lower level than your previous supervisor; a change in your title that is consistent with a company-wide or department-wide change in titles; or a change in your responsibilities that is lateral or a promotion. AT WILL EMPLOYMENT Nothing herein changes your status as an at-will employee. If you are terminated for any reason unrelated to the merger, such as unsatisfactory performance, before your scheduled merger-related termination date, you will not be eligible for the additional benefit described herein. ADDITIONAL BENEFIT The additional benefit is a cash payment equal to the excess of A over B: A. The value of the benefit you would have received under the Change of Control Agreement as of June 30, 2006 if the Change of Control Agreement were still in effect and determined as if your termination were a voluntary termination for good reason following a change in control under the Change of Control Agreement. For this purpose, payments of accrued compensation are not considered a benefit. B. The value of your benefit under the Career Award Agreement, including the restricted stock valued at the market value of shares of Regions at the time of the award, even if the restricted stock vested at a later date. The additional benefit described herein will generally be payable within 30 days of termination of employment. However, if you are a "specified employee" for purposes of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (generally, one of the 50 highest paid officers of the company), then your -2-
additional benefit will be payable six months after you have a separation from service as defined in the regulations under Section 409A. In addition, if the additional benefit described herein is payable to you, any remaining unvested restricted stock granted to you prior to the closing date of the AmSouth merger will become immediately vested upon your termination of employment. -3-

Exhibit 99.2 Memo To: Executives with Change of Control Agreements [Name of Executive] From: Date: 9/5/2006 The compensation committee of the Board of Directors of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions"), with approval from AmSouth Bancorporation, has approved for retention purposes the following enhancement to certain change of control agreements. Please keep this memo as documentation of your enhanced benefits. ELIGIBILITY FOR ADDITIONAL BENEFIT You are eligible for the additional benefit described herein if you satisfy all of the following conditions: 1. You have a Change of Control Agreement or an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in connection with a change of control of Regions; and 2. Your Change of Control Agreement was not replaced by a Career Award Agreement effective December 20, 2005. If you are eligible for the additional benefit, this benefit is payable only under the following circumstances: 1. Your employment is terminated by Regions in connection with the AmSouth merger after the date of this memo and no more than two years after the effective date of the merger; 2. Your employment is not terminated for cause, as defined in the applicable Change of Control Agreement or employment agreement; 3. You remain actively employed in your position and perform satisfactorily until the termination date selected by Regions. Satisfactory performance will include, among other things: maintaining your regular office hours; maintaining a high level of customer service; continuing to be actively engaged in meeting your objectives and completing your work; and working diligently with your manager and others to ensure a smooth transition upon termination; and 4. You sign a Regions approved release and waiver agreement upon your termination date.
ADVERSE CHANGES At the discretion of Regions, you may be treated as terminated in connection with the AmSouth merger if you voluntarily terminate employment in connection with a material adverse change in pay, location or responsibilities. In order to qualify under this provision, you must give at least 30 days advance notice of your desired resignation date, reach a mutually agreeable resignation date with Regions and comply with all other requirements, especially including working diligently to ensure a smooth transition of your responsibilities. For this purpose, an adverse change must have already occurred prior to your giving notice to Regions. A change in location will be considered adverse if your commute increases by at least 35 miles. Please note that certain organizational changes are to be expected in any merger, and such changes will not, in and of themselves, be considered adverse. Following are some examples of changes that will not, in and of themselves, be considered adverse: a change in the number of layers of management above you; a change in the person to whom you report, even if your new supervisor is at a lower level than your previous supervisor; a change in your title that is consistent with a company-wide or department-wide change in titles; or a change in your responsibilities that is lateral or a promotion. AT WILL EMPLOYMENT Nothing herein changes your status as an at-will employee. If you are terminated for any reason unrelated to the merger, such as unsatisfactory performance, before your scheduled merger-related termination date, you will not be eligible for the additional benefit described herein. ADDITIONAL BENEFIT If in Regions' sole discretion, all of the conditions for the additional benefit are met, then within 30 days of your termination date, Regions will pay to you the change of control value, less applicable withholdings. In addition, if the additional benefit described herein is payable to you, any remaining unvested restricted stock granted to you prior to the closing date of the AmSouth merger will become immediately vested upon your termination of employment. -2-


