FILE:RF/RF-8K-20060329170400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 23, 2006 REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION ----------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-6159 63-0589368 - ---------------- ------------- ------------------ (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 417 North 20th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35203 -------------------------------------------- ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) (205) 944-1300 ---------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A DEFINITIVE MATERIAL AGREEMENT On March 23, 2006, Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") and H. Lynn Harton, executive vice president and chief credit officer, executed an amendment to Mr. Harton's employment agreement with Union Planters Bank, N.A., predecessor in interest to the company's subsidiary Regions Bank, to extend the term of the agreement by a period of three years commencing on July 1, 2006, and to provide that the company will assume the obligations of Regions Bank (as successor to Union Planters Bank) under the agreement. The amendment also provides that the merger of Union Planters Corporation and former Regions Financial Corporation shall not be considered a change of control for any purpose of the agreement. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The exhibits listed in the exhibit index are filed as a part of this current report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Registrant) By: /s/ Ronald C. Jackson ------------------------ Ronald C. Jackson Senior Vice President and Comptroller Date: March 29, 2006
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Exhibit No. Description - ---------- ---------- 99.1 Amendment to Employment Agreement between H. Lynn Harton and Regions Financial Corporation effective as of July 1, 2006. 99.2 Employment Agreement between H. Lynn Harton and Union Planters Bank, N.A. dated as of June 2, 2003.

Exhibit 99.1 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT This Amendment to that certain Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") by and between Lynn Harton ("Harton") and Union Planters Bank, N.A. ("UPB") the predecessor of Regions Bank, a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company"), is made and entered into as of the 1st day of July, 2006, by and between the Employee and the Company, to be effective as of that date. WHEREAS the Agreement term will expire on July 1, 2006, and WHEREAS the Company wishes to retain the services of Harton, and WHEREAS Harton wishes to remain employed by the Company, NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to Section 8 of the Agreement, and in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. The Company will assume all obligations of UPB pursuant to the Agreement and not inconsistent with this Amendment. 2. Term. Section 3 of the Agreement shall be amended to provide "for a period commencing on July 1, 2006 and continuing for three (3) years . . ." 3. Change of Control. The text of Section 5(d), including the Agreement's Exhibit D ("old Exhibit D") is deleted and replaced with the following: The July 1, 2004 merger of Union Planters Corporation and the Company shall not be considered a Change of Control pursuant to this or any other Agreement between Harton and the Company. Exhibit "D" hereto shall be applicable to any subsequent Change of Control as that term is defined therein. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Employee has hereunto set the Employee's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written. REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: /s/ John M. Daniel --------------------------------- Name John M. Daniel ---------------------------------- Title: Executive VP - H.R. -------------------------------- EMPLOYEE Name: /s/ H. Lynn Harton ---------------------------------
EXHIBIT D CHANGE OF CONTROL The following terms and conditions govern the circumstances of a Change of Control as defined herein: 1. Certain Definitions. (a) "Accrued Compensation" shall mean the sum of: (i) the Employee's annual base salary through the Termination Date, to the extent not theretofore paid, (ii) reimbursement (in accordance with the Company's expense reimbursement policy) for reasonable and necessary business expenses incurred by the Employee on behalf of the Company prior to the Termination Date, (iii) Employee's accrued and unused vacation pay (in accordance with the Company's vacation policy) to the extent not theretofore paid, and (iv) bonuses and incentive compensation to which the Employee is entitled under the terms of applicable bonus or incentive plans or awards maintained by the Company. (b) "Affiliate" shall mean any entity directly or indirectly controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company or any corporation or other entity acquiring, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all the assets and business of the Company, whether by operation of law or otherwise. (c) "Base Amount" shall mean the Employee's annual base salary at the rate in effect at the date hereof or, if greater, at any time hereafter prior to the Effective Date of the Change of Control, determined without regard to any salary reduction or deferred compensation elections made by the Employee. (d) "Bonus Amount" shall mean the highest bonus paid or payable to Employee by the Company in respect of any of the three (3) full fiscal years ended prior to the Effective Date of the Change of Control. (e) "Cause" shall mean: (i) the willful and continued failure of the Employee to perform substantially the Employee's reasonably assigned duties with the Company or any of its Affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), which failure continued for a period of at least thirty (30) days after a written demand for substantial performance, signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company, has been delivered to the Employee specifying the manner in which the Employee has failed substantially to perform, or 1
(ii) the Employee's breach of fiduciary duty involving personal profit, commission of a felony or a crime involving fraud or moral turpitude, or material breach of any provision of his Employment Agreement, or (iii) the willful engaging by the Employee in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially injurious to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no termination of the Employee's employment shall be for Cause until (i) there shall have been delivered to the Employee a Notice of Termination, and (ii) within fifteen days thereafter, the Employee shall have been provided an opportunity to be heard in person by the Compensation Committee of the Board or a review panel appointed by the Compensation Committee of the Board. For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act, on the part of the Employee, shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was legal, proper, and in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority and directives given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. Notwithstanding anything set forth in this Exhibit to the contrary, no failure to perform by the Employee after a Notice of Termination is given by the Employee to the Company shall constitute Cause for the purposes of this Exhibit. (f) "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (i) the acquisition by any "Person" (as the term "person" is used for the purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of direct or indirect beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors (the "Voting Securities"); or (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board, or the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, shall be an Incumbent Director, unless such individual is initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors ("Election Contest") or other actual 2
or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board ("Proxy Contest"), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or (iii) The consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization, statutory share exchange, or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company, the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, or the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity by the Company (each a "Business Combination"), unless such Business Combination is a "Non-Control Transaction." A "Non-Control Transaction" is a Business Combination immediately following which the following conditions are met: (A) the stockholders of the Company immediately before such Business Combination own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that as a result of such Business Combination owns the Company or all of substantially all of the Company's assets or stock either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) (the "Surviving Corporation") in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Company Voting Securities immediately before such Business Combination; (B) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Surviving Corporation were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial Business Combination agreement; and (C) no person other than (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) the Surviving Corporation or its ultimate parent corporation, or (iii) any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Surviving Corporation's then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors; or (iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more 3
than the permitted amount of the outstanding Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, provided that if a Change of Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) and after such acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Voting Securities, then a Change of Control shall occur. (g) "Company" shall mean Regions Financial Corporation, its successors and assigns. (h) "Disability" shall mean that the Employee has become eligible to receive benefits under any group long-term disability plan or policy maintained by the Company or any of its Affiliates that is by its terms applicable to the Employee. (i) "Effective Date" shall mean the first date on which a Change of Control occurs. (j) "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence, after a Change of Control (or within six (6) months prior to a Change of Control if such occurrence (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control), of any of the following events or conditions: (i) a material adverse change in the Employee's responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control (or immediately prior to the beginning of such six-month period, as the case may be), provided that "material adverse change" shall not include any change in Employee's title, lines of reporting, or internal job classification; (ii) a reduction in aggregate of the Employee's annual base salary and bonus below the aggregate of the Base Amount and the Bonus Amount; (iii) the Company requiring the Employee to be based at any location that is more than thirty-five (35) miles from the Employee's regular place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control (or immediately prior to the beginning of such six-month period, as the case may be); (iv) the failure by the Company to pay to the Employee any portion of the Employee's current compensation, or to pay to the Employee any portion of an installment of deferred compensation under any deferred compensation program of the Company in which the Employee participated, within seven (7) days of the date such compensation is due; 4
(v) the taking of any action by the Company that results in a reduction in the Employee's aggregate level of benefits immediately prior to the Change of Control (or immediately prior to the beginning of such six-month period, as the case may be) under compensation plans or employee benefit plans in which the Employee participates (including any ongoing substitute or alternative plan), such that the reduction is material to the Employee's total compensation and benefits; or (vi) any failure of the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 8(c) of this Exhibit. The Company shall have an opportunity to cure any claimed event of Good Reason within 30 days of receipt of Notice of Termination from the Employee. The Company shall notify the Employee of the timely cure of any claimed event of Good Reason and the manner in which such cure was effected, and any Notice of Termination delivered by the Employee based on such claimed Good Reason shall be deemed withdrawn. (k) "Notice of Termination" shall mean written notice, following a Change of Control, of termination of the Employee's employment signed by the Employee if to the Company or by a duly authorized officer of the Company if to the Employee, which indicates the specific termination provision in this Exhibit relied upon if termination is for Cause and which sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide the basis for termination of the Employee's employment under the provision so indicated. (l) "Termination Date" shall mean (i) in the case of the Employee's death, the date of the Employee's death, (ii) if the Employee's employment is terminated for Disability, thirty (30) days after Notice of Termination is given (provided that the Employee shall not have returned to the performance of the Employee's duties on a full-time basis during such thirty (30) day period), and (iii) if the Employee's employment is terminated for any other reason, the date specified in the Notice of Termination (which, in the case of a termination for Cause shall not be less than thirty (30) days, and in the case of a termination for Good Reason shall not be more than sixty (60) days, from the date such Notice of Termination is given). 2. Term of this Exhibit. This Exhibit D shall not be sufficient as an agreement unto itself, but rather is governed by the term of Harton's Employment Agreement, as amended. 3. Termination of Employment. If the Employee's employment with the Company and with its Affiliates is terminated within twenty-four (24) months following a Change of Control (or within six (6) months prior to a Change of Control if such termination (i) was at the request 5
of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control), the Employee shall be entitled to the following compensation and benefits: (a) If such termination of the Employee's employment is (i) by the Company for Cause or Disability, (ii) by reason of the Employee's death, or (iii) by the Employee other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay to the Employee the Employee's Accrued Compensation. (b) If such termination of the Employee's employment is (i) by the Company without Cause, or (ii) by the Employee for Good Reason, the Company shall pay to the Employee the aggregate of the Employee's Accrued Compensation plus an amount equal to three times the sum of the Employee's Base Amount and Bonus Amount. (c) The amounts provided for in Section 3(a) and 3(b) shall be paid in a single lump sum cash payment within thirty (30) days after the Employee's Termination Date; provided that, if the Employee has elected a different payout date in a prior deferral election with respect to any Accrued Compensation consisting of compensation previously deferred by the Employee (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon), such deferred amounts shall be paid pursuant to the terms of such election. Notwithstanding the above, in the event the Employee is a "specified employee" at the time a payment, other than Accrued Compensation, is to be made under this Exhibit, such payment shall be made on the date that is the later of: (1) the date that is six months after the Employee's separation from service with the Company, as determined in accordance with applicable Treasury regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code"); and (2) the date the payment would otherwise be made. For this purpose, "specified employee" shall mean a specified employee as defined in Treasury regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Code, with an identification date of December 31. Such designation shall be applicable for the period of April 1 though March 31 beginning after the identification date. (d) The severance pay and benefits provided for in this Section 3 shall be in lieu of any other severance pay to which the Employee shall be entitled under the Company's Severance Pay Plan or any other plan, agreement, or arrangement of the Company or any Affiliate. The Employee's entitlement to any other benefits (other than additional severance pay) shall be determined in accordance with the Company's employee benefit plans and other applicable programs and practices then in effect. 4. Excise Tax Limitation. (a) Anything in this Exhibit to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any benefit, payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether payable or distributable pursuant to the terms of this 6
Exhibit or otherwise) (a "Payment") would, if paid, be subject to the excise tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, then the Payments shall be modified or reduced to the extent necessary of avoid the imposition of the Excise Tax. Such reduction shall come from the cash Payment or Payments that are due earliest following termination of employment. (b) All determinations required to be made under this Section 4, including whether an Excise Tax would otherwise be imposed and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by Ernst & Young LLP or such other certified public accounting firm as may be designated by the Board (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee within 15 business days of the receipt of Notice of Termination from the Employee (not subject to contest), or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change of Control, the Board may appoint another nationally recognized accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Payments hereunder will have been unnecessarily limited by this Section 4 ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. The Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred, and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. 7

EXHIBIT 99.2 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT This Employment Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into as of the 2 day of June 2003, by and between Union Planters Bank, N.A., a Tennessee corporation ("UPB"), 7130 Goodlett Farms Parkway, Cordova, Tennessee 38016, and Lynn Harton ("Harton"), who resides at 109 Shadylawn Drive, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27104 UPB and Harton covenant and agree as follows: 1. Engagement and Duties. UPB hereby employs and engages Harton in the position of Chief Credit Officer and Head of Credit Risk Management with the officer title of Senior Executive Vice President to perform the duties and responsibilities that are normally associated with such position and office and such other duties as are assigned to Harton by UPB. 2. Best Efforts. a. Harton agrees to perform all duties and services that may be required of him to the best of his ability, experience and talents to the reasonable satisfaction of UPB and he shall promptly obey and comply with all rules, regulations, policies and orders that may from time to time be issued by UPB. b. Harton agrees to devote his entire time, energy, skill and best efforts exclusively to the service of UPB and to the promotion of UPB's interest and not to engage in any other commercial pursuits related to UPB's business or to accept employment in any outside business or enterprise, except by written authorization from UPB. 3. Term. UPB hereby agrees to employ Harton and Harton hereby agrees to be employed by Company as Chief Credit Officer and Head of Credit Risk Management for a period commencing on or before July 1,2003 and continuing for three (3) years subject to the provisions for termination as hereafter provided. This Agreement may be renewed for additional terms of one (1) year upon the mutual written agreement of the parties. 4. Compensation and Benefits. a. Base Salary. Harton shall receive an initial base annual salary ("Base Salary") of Two hundred forty thousand dollars ($240,000.00), payable semi-monthly in accordance with UPB's normal payroll practices, and subject to applicable taxes and withholding. b. Annual Bonus. In addition to Base Salary, beginning in the first quarter of 2005, Harton will be eligible to receive an annual bonus ("Annual Bonus") at a target of 45% of base salary in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Bonus Plan document, a copy of which will be provided to Harton following his first day of work. In 2004 Harton will be eligible to receive a pro rata share of his target bonus in accordance with the terms of the Corporate Bonus Plan Document. c. Signing Bonus. Upon execution of this Agreement, Harton will be entitled to receive a signing bonus of Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), subject to withholding as required by law, which Signing Bonus will be due and payable as part of Harton's first payroll check. In the event that Harton should voluntarily terminate his employment with
Company at any time during the first twelve (12) months of his employment, Harton shall be required to reimburse Company a pro-rated portion of the Signing Bonus, pursuant to the terms of the Re-Payment Agreement which is incorporated herein and attached hereto as Exhibit "A." d. Vacation and Other Benefits. Harton will be eligible for four weeks vacation annually after completing ninety (90) days of employment. Vacation entitlement in 2003 will be pro-rated based upon Harton's start date. In addition, UPB agrees to provide Harton the same benefits available to all salaried employees generally. UPB will provide Harton with the same directors' and officers' liability coverage as is provided to other executives of UPB Company and all members of the Board. e. Reimbursement of Business Expenses. Harton will be reimbursed in full for all reasonable business related expenses incurred during the performance of the services hereunder. UPB will reimburse Harton from time to time based on an itemized account of such expenditures, together with supporting vouchers. All such expenses for reimbursement will be submitted in accordance with UPB's regularly established procedures. Such submissions must conform with the prevailing federal and state income tax laws. f. Health and Medical Plans. As of the first day of the pay period following completion of a full month, Harton will be entitled to participate in the Company's health, dental, basic life insurance, short-term disability and long-term disability plans. Harton will be eligible to participate in the vision and long term care plans following one calendar month of employment. A summary of benefits is attached hereto as Exhibit "B." g. Stock Options. Harton shall be granted stock options under the Union Planters Corporation Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan to purchase up to twenty-five thousand (25,000) shares of UPB's common stock, at the closing price on employee's date of hire. Options shall vest at a rate of one-third (1/3) per year for three years. Vesting upon termination, whether voluntary or involuntary shall be governed by the terms of the Plan. Harton will be eligible to receive an additional grant of stock options in October subject to the approval of the Compensation/ Nomination/Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. Performance Restricted Stock. Harton will be eligible to participate in the Performance Restricted Stock grant program in 2004 subject to approval by the Compensation/ Nomination/Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. h. Performance Restricted Stock. Harton will be eligible to participate in the Performance Restricted Stock Grant program in 2004 subject to approval by the Compensation/ Nomination/Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. i. Club Membership. Harton will receive reimbursement for the cost of a country club membership. j. 401(k) Program. On the first day of the month coinciding with or following ninety (90) days of employment, Harton will be eligible to participate in the company 401(k) program. 2
k. Relocation Reimbursement. Harton will be entitled to the following relocation expense reimbursement: i. home sale assistance, coordinated by Primacy Relocation, through UPB's Corporate Human Resources Department, pursuant to Home Sale Assistance Buyer Value Option attached hereto as Exhibit "C." ii. new home closing costs, escrow, and insurance in an amount net after taxes; iii. household furnishing moving costs will be paid through UPB's accounts payable department and not taxable to Harton; iv. two (2) house-hunting trips for Harton and spouse, to include travel, lodging and meals expense (two nights per trip/or a total of five nights) will be reimbursed; v. Employee will receive up to ninety (90) days of temporary housing at an extended-stay hotel with meal per diem of $25 per day or furnished apartment (no meal per diem); vi. round-trip travel home, as reasonable and approved, during Harton's transition period; and, vii. Relocation bonus of $10,000, less applicable taxes, will be paid upon your transfer to Memphis to help pay for costs not specifically covered in the policy. 5. Termination. a. Termination by UPB for Cause. UPB may terminate Harton at any time for Cause, effective immediately upon the giving of written notice to Harton. In the event of termination for Cause, UPB shall pay to Harton all accrued compensation through the effective date of termination (subject to offset for any specific amounts owed by Harton to UPB such as loans, advances, or embezzlement of UPB funds). For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means fraud, embezzlement, material dishonesty, material failure to perform the duties and responsibilities assigned to Harton, willful negligence in the performance of Harton's duties hereunder, or gross misconduct. b. Death. This Agreement shall terminate immediately upon the death of Harton provided, however, that Harton's estate shall be paid all accrued compensation owed to Harton to the date of death. c. Disability. UPB or Harton may terminate this Agreement upon Harton's failure or inability to perform the services required hereunder due to disability provided, however, that Harton shall be paid all accrued compensation owed to him to the effective date of disability. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means a determination by a physician reasonably satisfactory to UPB and Harton that Harton has been, is and/or will be unable to participate in the affairs of UPB and to fulfill the normal obligations of his employment with UPB under this Agreement for a continuous period of longer than 120 days; provided, however, that if Harton and UPB are unable to agree upon a physician, both Harton and UPB shall designate a physician and the two (2) physicians so designated shall agree upon a third physician, whose 3
determination shall be final and binding. d. Change of Control. In the event of a Change of Control, as defined on the attached Exhibit "D" and which results in termination of Harton's employment with UPB, mandatory relocation and/or results in a diminished Base Salary or a reduction in job duties with an associated decrease of two (2) or more pay levels at any time within the first twelve (12) months from the effective date of the Change of Control, for a reason(s) other than cause, Harton shall be entitled to receive the following: i. accrued base salary through the date of termination of his employment; ii. a lump sum equal to two point nine nine (2.99) times Harton's annual base salary; iii a lump sum equal to two point nine nine (2.99) times Harton's Corporate Annual "target Bonus and, iv. any other benefits to which Harton is entitled upon his termination of employment with UPB in accordance with the terms of the plans and programs of UPB. 6. Non-Disclosure. For a period of five (5) years after the date of any termination or expiration of this Agreement, Harton will not disclose any information deemed Confidential Information, except (i) to a person who is an authorized employee (ii) as required by law, regulation or order of any court or regulatory commission, department or agency or (iii) as part of a confidential communication to an attorney. If Harton shall attempt to disclose the Confidential Information or any part or parts thereof in a manner contrary to the terms of this Agreement, UPB shall have the right, in addition to other remedies which may be available to it, to injunctive relief enjoining such acts or attempts, it being acknowledged that legal remedies are inadequate. This provision shall survive termination of this Agreement for the five (5) year period above provided. 7. Definition of Confidential Information and Authorized Employee. Confidential Information means any information not disseminated by UPB to the general public (including identity of customers, clients, business contacts, suppliers of goods and/or services, and any transaction by or between such person or entities and UPB) and which Harton used or knew of because of his employment at UPB, including specific information about methods not generally employed in the industry at large and which are used or known to be contemplated for use in the future by UPB for the purpose of gaming proprietary advantage over competitors; provided, however, that Confidential Information shall not include general knowledge of skills and techniques acquired or improved as a result of the employment experience at UPB. Authorized employee means with respect to UPB, members of the Board of Directors; the Chief Executive Officer; the President; Executive Vice Presidents; immediate supervisors; a fellow employee on a need-to-know basis only; and any UPB employee is the course of the performance of the Harton's duties pursuant to this Agreement. Harton shall be entitled at all times to disclose Confidential Information to his personal attorney on a confidential basis and as may otherwise be required by law. 8. Notices. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be sufficient if in writing, and delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt 4
requested, to the parties at the following addresses or to such other addresses as either party may designate in writing to the other party: If to UPB: ATTN: Director of Human Resources Union Planters Corporation 7130 Goodlett Farms Parkway Cordova, TN 38016 If to Harton: Lynn Harton ----------------------------------- ----------------------------------- 9. Arbitration. Any dispute or controversy between UPB and Harton, except for a dispute or controversy arising under paragraph 7 of this agreement, whether arising out of or relating to this Agreement, its interpretation, its breach, or otherwise, shall be settled by arbitration in Memphis, Tennessee administered by the American Arbitration Association, with any such dispute or controversy arising under this Agreement being so administered in accordance with its rules then in effect, and judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator shall have the authority to award any remedy or relief that a court of competent jurisdiction could order or grant including, without limitation, the issuance of an injunction. However, either party may, without inconsistency with this arbitration provision, apply to any court having jurisdiction over such dispute or controversy and seek interim provisional, injunctive or other equitable relief until the arbitration award is rendered or the controversy is otherwise resolved. Except as necessary in court proceedings to enforce this arbitration provision or an award rendered hereunder, or to obtain interim relief, neither a party nor an arbitrator may disclose the existence, content or results of any arbitration hereunder without the prior written consent of UPB and Harton. Notwithstanding any choice of law provision included in this Agreement, the United States Federal Arbitration Act shall govern the interpretation and enforcement of this arbitration provision. 10. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of Tennessee and all matters pertaining to this Agreement that cannot be resolved by referring to its provisions shall be governed by the laws of Tennessee, including statutes of limitations and remedies, without regard to any otherwise applicable principles of conflicts of law. 11. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire and sole understanding and agreement between UPB and Harton with regard to all matters contained herein. This agreement may be amended, supplemented, or interpreted at any time only by written instrument duly executed by both parties. 12. Severability. In the event that any provisions of this Agreement are determined to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the valid provisions shall remain in full force and effect. 5
13. Benefit. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto, and their respective heirs, representatives and successors. 14. Assignment. This Agreement is not assignable by either party hereto except that this Agreement may be assigned by UPB to a Successor Entity or as part of a Sale Transaction, provided however, that Harton and UPB shall be bound by the Change in Control Addendum, which is incorporated herein and attached hereto as Exhibit "D. 15. Waiver. Any consent by any party to, or waiver of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the other, whether express or implied, shall not constitute a consent to, waiver of, or excuse for any breach of any other provision or subsequent breach of the same provision. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date first above written. WITNESS: Union Planters Bank, N.A. /s/ Lynn Harton By: /s/ John M. Daniel - ------------------------ ---------------------------- Lynn Harton Executive Vice President Its: Head of Human Resources --------------------------- Exhibit A. Re-payment Agreement. Omitted as no longer operative Exhibit B. Summary of Union Planters Bank health and medical benefits. Omitted as no longer operative Exhibit C. Union Planter's Corporation Relocation Policy. Omitted as no longer operative. Exhibit D. Change in control. 6
EXHIBIT D: CHANGE IN CONTROL Change in Control means the occurrence of any of the following events: (1) The acquisition by any individual, entity, or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of 25% or more of either (a) the then outstanding shares of common stock of UPC (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock" or (b) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of UPC entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (1), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (w) any acquisition directly from UPC, (x) any acquisition by UPC, (y) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by UPC or any corporation controlled by UPC, or (z) any acquisition by any Person pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B), and (C) of subsection (3) of this Section; or (2) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of UPC (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by UPC's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or (3) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of UPC (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 65% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case maybe, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns UPC or all or substantially all of UPC's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company
Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, and (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of UPC or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns directly or indirectly, 25% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination. If any change in management occurs during your employment and your employment is terminated for reasons other than cause, then you shall receive the same pay and benefits as described in Section 5.d of the Employment Agreement.


