FILE:RF/RF-8K-20070824112111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 24, 2007, Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release announcing that Brad Kimbrough has been named controller and chief accounting officer. For additional information, see the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 24, 2007

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS MEDIA CONTACT:
Linda Childs
205-264-5690
linda.childs@regions.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF) today announced that Brad Kimbrough, 43, has been named controller and chief accounting officer. Kimbrough adds the role of controller and chief accounting officer to his current duties managing financial reporting, accounting policy, monthly close-out, and accounting operations. Kimbrough assumes his new duties from Al Yother, who has held dual responsibility as chief financial officer and controller since being promoted to CFO in April.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., August 24, 2007
"Brad has a proven track record managing financial functions within our company and brings immense accounting knowledge to his new position as controller," said Al Yother, chief financial officer for Regions. "Brad's financial acumen and leadership capabilities will serve us well as we position Regions for future growth."
Kimbrough joined AmSouth in 1993 as assistant vice president, special projects, and in 1994, he was named vice president, assistant controller. From 1995 to 1998, he served as vice president, management reporting and financial analysis. In 1998, he was named senior vice president with responsibilities for AmSouth's financial planning, management reporting and supervision of the company's financial managers. Following the announcement of the Regions/AmSouth merger, Kimbrough assumed his most recent position as head of corporate accounting and was named executive vice president in April 2007. Prior to joining the company, Kimbrough served as staff auditor and audit manager at Coopers & Lybrand, now Price Waterhouse Coopers, LLP, from 1986 to 1993.
Kimbrough holds a bachelor's degree from Auburn University and is a certified public accountant. He currently serves on Auburn's Accounting Advisory Board and the North Alabama United Methodist Church Council on Finance. He is a member of the Alabama Society of Certified Public Accountants.
About Regions
Regions Financial Corporation is a member of the S&P 100 Index and Forbes Magazine's "Platinum 400" list of America's best big companies. With nearly $140 billion in assets, Regions is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates some 1,900 AmSouth and Regions banking offices and more than 2,400 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage, trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from more than 400 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at .
www.regions.com


