FILE:RF/RF-8K-20070413171709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
On April 13, 2007, Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") issued a press release announcing that Alton E. Yother, controller and principal accounting officer of Regions, has been appointed the chief financial officer. Mr. Yother was the chief financial officer of AmSouth Bancorporation ("AmSouth") at the time of its merger with Regions in November 2006. Prior to joining AmSouth, he served as senior financial officer of SouthTrust Corporation. D. Bryan Jordan, former chief financial officer of Regions, resigned to accept a position at another financial services company. Mr. Jordan's resignation is not the result of any disagreement regarding the financial statements of Regions.
A copy of the press release issued by Regions announcing Mr. Yother's appointment as chief financial officer and Mr. Jordan's departure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 13, 2007
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Media Relations:
Rick Swagler, (205) 801-0105
or
Investor Relations:
List Underwood, (205) 801-0265
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., April 13, 2007  Regions Financial Corp. (NYSE:RF) announced today that controller Alton E. "Al" Yother has been named chief financial officer. Yother has more than 25 years of banking experience and has served as Regions' controller and principal accounting officer since completion of Regions' merger with AmSouth Bancorporation. Yother was AmSouth's CFO at the time of the merger.
"Al has played a key role throughout the merger, thoroughly understands our company, and has an outstanding record of strategic financial management, all of which will ensure a smooth transition," said Dowd Ritter, Regions' president and chief executive officer. "Regions is fortunate to have someone with Al's talent and experience able to assume these duties immediately."
Yother will report to Ritter and will join the company's Executive Council, which sets the strategic direction for the company.
Bryan Jordan, Regions' former chief financial officer, has resigned to accept a position at another financial services company.
"We understand Bryan's decision and wish him much success in his new position," Ritter said. "Bryan has served Regions well and has been an outstanding leader. We hold him in the highest regard and thank him for his service and leadership."
Biographical information on Al Yother
Al Yother, 54, served as chief financial officer at AmSouth prior to its merger with Regions, having joined AmSouth in November 2004 as controller. Prior to joining AmSouth, Yother worked for SouthTrust Corp. for 24 years in roles with responsibility for management accounting, mergers and acquisitions, tax, asset/liability management, investor relations, financial accounting and strategic planning. His positions at SouthTrust included treasurer, controller and ultimately senior financial officer.
Yother graduated from the University of Alabama with a bachelor's degree in finance. He is a member of the board of directors of Hibbett Sporting Goods, Inc., and serves on the Dean's Executive Advisory Board for the Samford University School of Business.
 
About Regions
Regions Financial Corporation is a member of the S&P 100 Index and Forbes Magazine's "Platinum 400" list of America's best big companies. With more than $140 billion in assets, Regions is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates some 2,000 AmSouth and Regions banking offices and a 2,800-ATM network. Its investment and securities brokerage, trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 300 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at .
www.regions.com


