FILE:RF/RF-8K-20090520091542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain presentation materials relating to Regions Financial Corporation's ("Regions") capital transactions are attached as Exhibit 99.2 and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
On May 20, 2009, Regions announced various capital raising transactions. The press release related to the transactions is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Regions hereby files as Exhibit 12.1 attached hereto and incorporates by reference herein a current computation of its ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred dividends.
On May 18, 2009, Regions' senior notes, subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes were downgraded to Baa3, Ba1 and Ba2 from A3, Baa1 and Baa1, respectively, by Moody's Investors Service. Regions Bank financial strength, long-term deposits and short-term deposits were downgraded to D+, Baa1 and P-2 from C+, A2 and P-1, respectively. Regions' off-balance sheet arrangements include facilities supporting Variable Rate Demand Notes ("VRDNs"), including certain standby letters of credit and standby bond purchase agreements (also referred to as "liquidity facilities"). As of May 15, 2009, Regions' VRDN portfolio included unfunded letters of credit of approximately $4.4 billion (net of participations) and unfunded liquidity facilities of approximately $0.3 billion. The downgrades of the short-term deposits increase the risk that the VRDNs will be subject to a failed remarketing, which would result in Regions funding up to $4.7 billion of which $4.4 billion would be classified as loans and $0.3 billion as available for sale securities. Also, as of May 15, 2009, Regions had excess balances in interest-bearing deposits in other banks of approximately $14 billion which would be more than sufficient to absorb such fundings.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 20, 2009

EXHIBIT 12.1
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.  (BUSINESS WIRE)  May 20, 2009  Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF) today announced that it has commenced public offerings of $1 billion of its common shares and $250 million of new mandatory convertible preferred shares (the "Cash Offers"). The underwriters in the Cash Offers will have a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 15 percent of the offered amounts of common shares and mandatory convertible preferred shares, as the case may be, from the company. Goldman, Sachs & Co., and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. will serve as joint bookrunning managers for the Cash Offers and Morgan Keegan & Co. Inc., will be lead manager. Regions has filed or is filing prospectus supplements with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the Cash Offers.
The company also announced that it is offering to exchange common shares for outstanding 6.625% Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the "Exchange Offer.")
Under the terms of the Exchange Offer set forth in the company's prospectus dated May 20, 2009, and the related letter of transmittal, Regions will issue a number of common shares having a value (based on the "Relevant Price") equal to $700 for each Trust Preferred Security accepted for exchange. The "Relevant Price" is the greater of (i) the average volume weighted average price of Regions common shares during the last five trading days of the currently scheduled exchange offer period, and (ii) the "Minimum Share Price" of $2.65 per share. The Exchange Offer will expire at 11:59 p.m., Eastern time, on Wednesday, June 17, 2009, unless extended or earlier terminated.
The mandatory convertible preferred shares will convert into a variable number of shares of Regions common stock on December 15, 2010, unless earlier converted at the option of a holder or Regions. The conversion rate and the dividend rate on such securities will be determined by negotiations between Regions and the underwriters.
The Cash Offers and the Exchange Offer are the first steps of a comprehensive Capital Plan to satisfy the $2.5 billion Tier 1 common equity requirement prescribed by the Federal Reserve's Supervisory Capital Assessment Program ("SCAP"), which Regions currently expects will be accomplished without further investment by the U.S. Treasury in Regions. The common shares expected to be issued in the Cash Offer and the Exchange Offer will qualify as Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common equity. The mandatory convertible preferred shares in the Cash Offer are also expected to satisfy a portion of the
 
capital requirement identified by SCAP. The remaining capital needed is expected to be raised through a combination of actions including (i) additional liability management actions including possible exchanges of equity for our and Regions Bank's $4.25 billion of outstanding subordinated debt and $345 million of additional trust preferred securities, (ii) sales of non-core assets and businesses, (iii) pre-provision earnings in excess of the amounts assumed under the SCAP analysis, (iv) a potential reduction in disallowed deferred tax assets as a result of increased Tier 1 capital levels, and (v) if necessary, the issuance of common equity and other Tier 1 common equity qualifying instruments.
Regions has filed or is filing registration statements (including prospectuses) with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the Cash Offers and the Exchange Offer. Before you invest, you should read the prospectuses in those registration statements and other documents the company has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the company and the Cash Offers and the Exchange Offer. The registration statement relating to the Exchange Offer has not yet become effective and common shares may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted in connection with the Exchange Offer prior to the time that such registration statement becomes effective. You may obtain these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the prospectus and prospectus supplement may be obtained upon request by contacting Regions Investor Relations, 205-581-7890; Goldman, Sachs & Co., Attention: Prospectus Department, 85 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004, telephone: 212-902-1171 or 866-471-2526, fax: 212-902-9316, email: Prospectus-ny@ny.email.gs.com; J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, NY 11245, Attention: Prospectus Department, 718-242-8002; or Morgan Keegan & Co. Inc., Equity Syndicate, 901-529-5357.
This press release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell, any securities. The solicitation of offers to purchase our common shares and mandatory convertible preferred stock will be made only pursuant to the company's prospectus supplements dated May 20, 2009, and the solicitation of offers to exchange the Trust Preferred Securities will only be made pursuant to the company's prospectus dated May 20, 2009, and related documents that the company has filed or will file with the SEC.
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation, with $142 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 100 Index and one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates 1,900 banking offices and approximately 2,300 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 300 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at .
www.regions.com
 
Forward-looking statements
This press release may include forward-looking statements, which reflect Regions current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
 
 
The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive; for discussion of these and other risks that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please look under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" in Regions' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, as on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions often signify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Regions assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time.
 



