FILE:RF/RF-8K-20090721172724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
During Regions Financial Corporation's ("Regions") teleconference and live webcast on July 21, 2009, concerning Regions' preliminary results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, Regions' executives disclosed:
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, this information is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements
This Form 8-K may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("the Act") provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements which are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, the current stresses in the financial and real estate markets, including possible continued deterioration in property values; possible changes in general economic and business conditions in the United States in general and in the communities Regions serves in particular; and possible changes in the creditworthiness of customers and the possible impairment of collectability of loans.
The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive; for discussion of these and other risks that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please look under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" in Regions' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 (as amended), as on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Regions assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 21, 2009


