FILE:RF/RF-8K-20091211171125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compensation Determinations for Named Executive Officers.
On December 9, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") took actions to implement a compensation structure designed to comply with the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance. As required by the TARP Standards, Regions will not pay cash bonuses for 2009 to its named executive officers (other than minimum amounts required by binding contracts). In addition, the Compensation Committee determined that Regions will not pay any TARP-permitted long-term restricted stock bonuses for 2009 to its named executive officers.
As contemplated by the TARP Standards, the Compensation Committee established annual rates of so-called salary stock for the named executive officers as follows: $3,320,000 for C. Dowd Ritter, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, $820,000 for Irene M. Esteves, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, $1,520,000 for O.B. Grayson Hall, Jr., President and Chief Operating Officer (increasing to $1,800,000 for 2010 to reflect increased responsibilities due to his recent promotion), $520,000 for David B. Edmonds, Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Human Resources Group, and $520,000 for William C. Wells, II, Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Risk Officer and Head of Risk Management Group. These salary stock unit rates will be prorated to reflect an effective date of July 1, 2009, except for Ms. Esteves, whose salary stock unit rate will be effective January 1, 2010. The salary stock will be granted in the form of restricted stock units, with units granted in 2009 being payable in cash in two equal annual installments on July 1, 2010 and January 1, 2011 and units granted in 2010 being payable in two equal annual installments, on January 1, 2011 and January 1, 2012. The form of 2009-2010 Annual Salary Stock Unit Award Agreement, which governs the payment of salary stock units is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. In addition, the Compensation Committee also approved a cash salary adjustment for Mr. Hall to increase his annual cash salary from $730,000 to $800,000, effective as of January 1, 2010, to reflect increased responsibilities due to his recent promotion.
Amendment of the Management Incentive Plan
The Compensation Committee also amended the Regions Financial Corporation Management Incentive Plan to clarify that all awards made under the plan are subject to applicable TARP provisions and other applicable law, including any applicable claw-back provisions. In addition, the amendment clarifies that awards for members of the Executive Council can be based entirely on corporate performance goals, as opposed to individual goals or a combination of individual and corporate goals. A copy of the amended and restated Management Incentive Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 11, 2009

EXHIBIT 10.1
AWARD AGREEMENT dated as of the 9th day of December 2009 by and between Regions Financial Corporation and . The Company has awarded you annual salary stock units ("") in the form of restricted stock units ("" This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the RSUs underlying your Annual Salary Stock Units.
[                    ]
Salary Stock Units
RSUs
).
1. .
Annual Salary Stock Units
(a) Beginning on the date of this Award Agreement, your Annual Salary Stock Units will accrue and be earned equally over the course of the year, subject to your continued employment. Your Annual Salary Stock Units may be changed from time to time by the Committee, including to increase, decrease or terminate your Annual Salary Stock Units. Your Annual Salary Stock Units will be given retroactive effect to July 1, 2009.
(b) On each Grant Date you will be issued RSUs equal to (1) the amount of your Annual Salary Stock Units earned over the relevant payroll period, net of any applicable tax withholdings and deductions (e.g., FICA and FUTA) pursuant to Paragraph 4(a), (2) the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on that date (or, if the New York Stock Exchange is closed on the Grant Date, on the last preceding date on which the Common Stock was traded on that exchange).
divided by
(c) For any Grant Date that would have occurred during the period beginning on July 1, 2009 and the date of this Award Agreement, you are being issued RSUs on the date of this Award Agreement determined on the basis of the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on that date.
2. .
Vesting; Settlement
(a) RSUs granted pursuant to the Award shall be immediately vested on the applicable Grant Date and will be payable solely in cash.
(b) RSUs granted in respect of a Grant Date that occurs (i) in 2009 will be payable in two equal installments, on July 1, 2010 and January 1, 2011, or, if earlier, your death, and (ii) in 2010 will be payable in two equal installments, on January 1, 2011 and January 1, 2012 (i.e., 50% on each of those dates) or, if earlier, your death (each, a ""). If the New York Stock Exchange is closed on a Payout Date, then the applicable installment will be calculated using the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the last preceding date on which the Common Stock was traded on that exchange. If a Payout Date does not occur on a regular payroll date, the payment will be made on the payroll date immediately following the relevant Payout Date, in each case, net of any applicable tax withholdings and deductions (e.g., income taxes) pursuant to Paragraph 4(a).
Payout Date
3. . Your rights in respect of future grants under the Award shall immediately terminate if at any time your employment with the Company terminates for any reason, except that you shall be entitled to receive a final grant of RSUs determined in accordance with Paragraph 1 for any portion of your Annual Salary Stock Units that you had accrued through the date of your termination of employment but had not yet been paid. In addition, your right to future Annual Salary Stock Units under this Award Agreement will terminate on December 31, 2010.
Termination
4. .
Withholding
(a) The Company will satisfy applicable tax withholdings and make applicable deductions in respect of Annual Salary Stock Units earned by you over a payroll period and issue RSUs pursuant to Paragraph 1(b) in respect of the remainder. On each Payment Date, the Company will satisfy any additional tax withholding applicable to the cash paid to you upon settlement of the RSUs.
(b) In all cases, you shall be solely responsible for any applicable taxes (including, without limitation, income and excise taxes) and penalties, and any interest that accrues thereon, that may be incurred in connection with the issuance of RSUs and the payment of cash upon settlement of the RSUs.
5. . Nothing in this Award Agreement shall be construed as giving you any right to continued employment by the Company or affect any right that the Company may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of your employment. The Company has not yet determined whether, and to what extent, your Annual Stock Salary Units will be taken into account for purposes of determining benefits under other compensation and benefit plans, programs, policies and arrangements maintained by the Company. Any such determination will be made in the sole discretion of the Company and the Company will inform you once such a determination has been made.
No Rights to Continued Employment; Impact on Other Plans
6. . The Committee may at any time amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement; that, notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement with respect to amounts that you have already earned and accrued without your prior written consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after your death) and any such amendment shall be made in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee. Subject to the other provisions of this Paragraph 6, the Committee shall have full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Award Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Amendment; Committee Discretion
provided
 
7..
Governing Law
THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
8. . Compensation under this Award Agreement is subject to applicable regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and applicable requirements of agreements between the Company and the U.S. government, as the same are in effect from time to time. You may receive compensation under this Award Agreement only to the extent that it is consistent with those regulations and requirements.
TARP Restrictions
9. . The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
"" means the award of Annual Salary Stock Units pursuant to this Award Agreement.
Award
"" means this award agreement, as it may be amended, supplemented or replaced from time to time.
Award Agreement
"" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Regions, including any substitute or successor committee or any action by the Board of Directors of Regions in the capacity of such committee.
Committee
"" means the common stock of Regions, par value $.01 per share, and any other securities or property issued in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof.
Common Stock
means each date that your base salary with the Company is payable in accordance with the Company's payroll practices then in effect.
"
Grant Date
"
"" or the "" means Regions Financial Corporation.
Regions
Company
, the Company has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of December 9, 2009.
I W W
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee or Chief Executive Officer, as applicable, will use its discretion to determine a performance category and a performance rating within the corresponding range based on actual results versus goal. Overall monitoring will be performed on a centralized basis by the Executive Compensation Department of the Corporate Human Resources Group to ensure as much consistency in this area as possible. Ratings of performance under the Plan may be required at mid-year and will be required at year-end utilizing the Regions Performance Management system.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS OF THE AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF THE PLAN, Regions Financial Corporation has caused this document to be executed by its authorized officers as of the day of , 2009, to be effective as of January 1, 2010.
            
                    
 
 


