FILE:RF/RF-8K-20090618171532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 18, 2009, Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release announcing that it will have met the Tier 1 common equity requirements prescribed by the Federal Reserve's Supervisory Capital Assessment Program when its previously announced exchange offer of common stock for trust preferred securities settles on June 22, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, this information is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 18, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.  (BUSINESS WIRE)  June 18, 2009  Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF) today announced that it will have raised $2.5 billion when its previously announced exchange offer of common stock for trust preferred securities settles on June 22, 2009. This fully meets the Tier 1 common equity capital requirements prescribed by the Federal Reserve's Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP).
The company's public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, generated net proceeds of $1.769 billion and its public offering of mandatory convertible preferred stock generated net proceeds of $278 million. The company's previously announced offer to exchange common shares for outstanding 6.625% Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II, which expired yesterday, and is expected to settle on June 22, 2009, will generate additional Tier 1 common equity of $172 million.
In addition to these public offerings, the company sold shares it owned inVisa Inc. and other securities, which generated capital of $117 million. As a result of these capital raising efforts, Regions also expects that approximately $200 million of deferred tax assets will be included in the company's Tier 1 common equity buffer required by SCAP.
"Our ability to raise this capital in such a short period of time indicates to us that investors recognize Regions' value and the strength of our franchise," said Dowd Ritter, Regions' chairman, president and CEO.
In connection with the SCAP, banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions' capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because Tier 1 common equity is not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, this measure is considered to be a non-GAAP financial measure and other entities may calculate it differently than Regions. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using Tier 1 common equity, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on this same basis.
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation, with $142 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 100 Index and one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates 1,900 banking offices and approximately 2,300 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 300 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at .
www.regions.com
Forward-looking statements
This press release may include forward-looking statements, which reflect Regions current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive; for discussion of these and other risks that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please look under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" in Regions' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, as amended by Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2 thereto, as on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
The words "goal," "target," "objective," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions often signify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time.
 


