FILE:RF/RF-8K-20100513203826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") held on May 13, 2010, Regions' stockholders approved an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Regions (the "Amended and Restated Certificate"), which was filed with the Secretary of State for the State of Delaware on May 13, 2010. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was approved by Regions' Board of Directors (the "Board") on January 21, 2010 and became effective upon filing with the Secretary of State for the State of Delaware. A discussion of the changes made in the Amended and Restated Certificate can be found in Regions' Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Regions' Stockholders held on May 13, 2010. A copy of the Amended and Restated Certificate is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
On May 13, 2010, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, adopted amended and restated By-Laws (the "Amended By-Laws") of Regions, containing several changes from Regions previous By-Laws (the "Previous By-Laws") related to clarifying, conforming and consolidating certain existing provisions, removing provisions included as part of the declassification of the Board (which is now complete), and clarifying the responsibilities of certain officers and directors, including the recently created position of Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, as well as other technical changes.
Non-Executive Chairman
Section III.2 of the Amended By-Laws combines and clarifies previous provisions discussing the roles of the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board. The Amended By-Laws grant the Chairman of the Board (in addition to the Chief Executive Officer, the President and, in certain instances, the Secretary) the ability to call special meetings of the Board in Section III.7 and (in addition to the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Secretary and the Board) the ability to call meetings of Regions' stockholders in Section II.2.
Duties of Officers
Section IV.1 of the Amended By-Laws expands the list of officers who may be designated by the Board, and now includes several different designations of Vice Presidents, as well as Assistant Secretaries, a Controller and an Auditor. The description of the Chief Executive Officer contained in Section IV.2 of the Amended By-Laws has been revised and, among other changes to the description, clarifies that the Chief Executive Officer may, but need not, also hold the office of President. The duties of the President listed in Section IV.3 of the Amended By-Laws now specifies that the
President's duties will include only those duties specified by the Amended By-Laws, the Board and the Chief Executive Officer. Formerly, the President's duties also included duties usually devolving upon the office. The duties of each Vice President have been clarified to permit each Vice President to exercise authority in all proper matters, including Regions' operations and its personnel, subject to the authority of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the President. Formerly, the duties of each Vice President were limited to the duties assigned by Regions' by-laws, the Board, the Chairman of the Board and the President. The duties of the Chief Financial Officer contained in Section IV.5 of the Amended By-Laws now include duties assigned by the Chief Executive Officer rather than duties assigned by the Chairman of the Board. Finally, the Amended By-Laws have added Sections IV.7 and IV.8 describing the duties of Regions' Controller and Auditor, respectively.
Declassified Board
Regions has also included in the Amended By-Laws various changes to remove provisions originally included in connection with the declassification of the Board, which is now complete. In particular, provisions contained in Section III.1 of the Previous By-Laws relating to the declassification have been removed, and Section III.1 of the Amended By-Laws now specifies that Directors shall be elected annually for terms of one year. Language relating to the removal of classified directors in Section III.4 of the Previous By-Laws has also been removed. Section III.4 of the Amended By-Laws states that all Directors shall serve in office until the next annual meeting, until a successor has been elected or qualified or until such Director's earlier retirement, death, resignation or removal.
Other Clarifying Changes
Clarifying changes were made to the following provisions in the Amended By-laws:
 
 
The Amended By-Laws also contain, in Section V.13, authority for the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Executive Vice President or Senior Executive Vice President, the Controller, Regions' General Counsel and any officer appointed by the Board to attend meetings and vote any securities held by Regions.
In addition, certain repetitive and duplicative sections were deleted or consolidated throughout the Amended By-Laws and certain conforming changes were made. Various provisions throughout the Amended By-Laws have been renumbered from their corresponding provisions in the Previous By-Laws.
The description of the amendments contained in the Amended By-Laws contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended By-Laws, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Previous By-Laws is included as Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K Current Report filed by Regions on April 22, 2008, and is also incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 13, 2010

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
Regions Financial Corporation (the "Corporation"), a Delaware corporation, hereby certifies as follows:
First. The name of the Corporation is Regions Financial Corporation.
Second. The original certificate of incorporation of the Corporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on February 13, 2004, under the name New Regions Financial Corporation. The name of the Corporation was changed to Regions Financial Corporation on July 1, 2004.
Third. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation amends, restates and integrates the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation and has been duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware by the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding stock entitled to vote thereon.
Fourth. The text of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is amended and restated to read in full as follows:
FIRST. The name of the corporation is Regions Financial Corporation.
SECOND. The address of its registered office in the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the registered agent at such address is Corporation Service Company. The principal office of the corporation shall be in the State of Alabama and shall be located in the City of Birmingham, County of Jefferson. Directors' meetings (unless from time to time specifically otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors) and appropriate corporate functions shall be held in Birmingham. The chief executive officer may, for his convenience, in discharging his duties, locate at whatever place he deems desirable the necessary secretarial and personal assistants for the efficient operation of his office. The corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Alabama, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the corporation may require from time to time. Specialized personnel, such as auditors, examiners, public relation officers, etc., shall be located in such cities as the Directors may from time to time order.
THIRD. The purpose of the corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
FOURTH. The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the corporation shall have the authority to issue is Three Billion Ten Million (3,010,000,000) of which Three Billion (3,000,000,000) shares are to be common stock (hereinafter called the "Common Stock"), of a par value of one cent ($.01) each, and Ten Million (10,000,000) shares are to be Preferred Stock (hereinafter called the "Preferred Stock") of the par value of one dollar ($1) each.
(1) Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series from time to time by the board of directors, and the board of directors is expressly authorized to fix by resolution or resolutions the designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of each series of Preferred Stock, including without limitation the following:
(a) the distinctive serial designation of such series which shall distinguish it from other series;
(b) the number of shares included in such series;
(c) the dividend rate (or method of determining such rate) payable to the holders of the shares of such series, any conditions upon which such dividends shall be paid and the date or dates upon which such dividends shall be payable;
(d) whether dividends on the shares of such series shall be cumulative and, in the case of shares of any series having cumulative dividend rights, the date or dates or method of determining the date or dates from which dividends on the shares of such series shall be cumulative;
(e) the amount or amounts which shall be payable out of the assets of the corporation to the holders of the shares of such series upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up the corporation, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of the shares of such series;
(f) the price or prices at which, the period or periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which the shares of such series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the corporation or at the option of the holder or holders thereof or upon the happening of a specified event or events;
 
 
 
(2) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, the number of authorized shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock set forth in this certificate of incorporation, as it may be amended from time to time, may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or series, voting together as a single class, irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or any corresponding provision hereafter enacted.
(3) Authority is hereby expressly granted to the Board of Directors from time to time to issue any authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock for such consideration and on such terms as it may determine.
FIFTH. [Reserved].
SIXTH. The corporation is to have perpetual existence.
SEVENTH. In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized:
(1) To make, alter or repeal the by-laws of the corporation, except as otherwise may be provided by such by-laws.
(2) To authorize and cause to be executed mortgages and liens upon the real and personal property of the corporation.
(3) To declare such lawful dividends, either in cash or stock of the corporation, as in its discretion it may deem advisable.
(4) To set apart out of any of the funds of the corporation available for dividends a reserve or reserves for any proper purposes and to abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
(5) To fix the number of Directors which shall constitute the whole Board, subject to the following:
(a) The number of Directors constituting the entire Board shall be fixed from time to time by vote of a majority of the entire Board except as may be otherwise provided in the By-Laws of the corporation, provided, however, that the number of Directors shall not be reduced so as to shorten the term of any Director at the time in office.
(b) All Directors will be elected annually for terms of one year and shall continue to hold office until the end of the term for which such director was elected and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders all directors shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such directors' successors shall have
 
been elected and qualified. Except as otherwise provided in the By-Laws of the corporation, any vacancies in the Board of Directors for any reason, and any created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of Directors may be filled by the Board of Directors, acting by a majority of Directors then in office, although less than a quorum. Any Directors so chosen shall hold office until the end of the term to which such Directors' predecessors were elected and until their successors shall be elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this certificate of incorporation or the By-Laws of the corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that some lesser percentage may be specified by law, this certificate of incorporation or the By-Laws of the corporation), any Director or the entire Board of Directors of the corporation may be removed at any time, with or without cause but only by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors cast at a meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose.
(d) In the event that the holders of any class or series of stock of the corporation shall be entitled, voting separately as a class, to elect any directors of the corporation, then the number of directors that may be elected by such holders shall be in addition to the number fixed pursuant to the By-Laws and, except as otherwise expressly provided in the terms of such class or series, the terms of the directors elected by such holders shall expire at the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding their election.
(6)(a) Except as set forth in Clause (d) of this paragraph (6) of Article Seventh, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote in election of Directors shall be required to effect or validate:
(1) any merger or consolidation with or into any other corporation, or
(2) any sale or lease of all or a substantial part of the assets of the corporation to any other corporation, person or other entity,
if, in the case of both (1) and (2), as of the record date for determination of stockholders entitled to notice thereof and to vote thereon, such other corporation, person or entity which is party to such a transaction is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote in elections of directors. Such affirmative vote shall be in addition to any vote of the holders of the shares of the corporation otherwise required by law, this certificate of incorporation or any agreement between the corporation and any national securities exchange.
(b) For purpose of this paragraph (6) any corporation, person or other entity shall be deemed to be the beneficial owner of any shares of the corporation:
(1) which it owns directly, whether or not of record, or
(2) which it has the right to acquire pursuant to any agreement or understanding or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options or otherwise, or
(3) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly (including shares deemed to be owned through application of clause (2) above), by an "affiliate" or "associate" as those terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in effect on April 1, 2004, or
(4) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly (including shares deemed owned through application of clause (2) above), by any other corporation, person or entity with which it or its "affiliate" or "associate" has any agreement or arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting, or disposing of shares of the corporation. For the purpose of determining whether a specific corporation, person or entity is the beneficial owner of one or more of the outstanding shares of the corporation, the outstanding shares of the corporation shall include shares not in fact outstanding but
 
deemed owned through the application of clauses (b)(2)(3) and (4) above by such corporation, person or entity, but shall not include any other shares which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options or otherwise.
(c) The Board of Directors shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this paragraph (6), on the basis of information known to the corporation, whether:
(1) such other corporation or entity beneficially owns more than 5% of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote in elections of Directors;
(2) a corporation, person, or entity is an "affiliate" or "associate" (as defined in paragraph (b) above) of another; and
(3) the memorandum of understanding referred to in clause (d) below is substantially consistent with the transaction covered thereby.
Any such determination shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of this paragraph (6).
(d) The provisions of this paragraph (6) shall not apply to:
(1) any transaction of a type addressed by paragraph 6(a)(1) or (2) if the Board of Directors of the corporation has approved a memorandum of understanding or other written agreement providing for such transaction with such other corporation prior to the time that such other corporation shall have become the beneficial owner of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote in elections of Directors; or after such acquisition of 5% of the outstanding shares, if 75% or more of the entire Board of Directors approve such transaction prior to its consummation; or
(2) any merger or consolidation of the corporation with, or any sale or lease by the corporation or any subsidiary thereof of any assets of, or any sale or lease by the corporation or any subsidiary thereof of any of its assets to, any corporation of which a majority of the outstanding shares of all classes of stock entitled to vote in election of Directors is owned of record or beneficially by the corporation and its subsidiaries.
EIGHTH. Elections of directors need not be written ballot except and to the extent provided in the by-laws of the corporation or directed by a majority of the entire Board of Directors.
NINTH. No action required to be taken or which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation may be taken without a meeting, and the power of stockholders to consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
TENTH. (1) The corporation shall indemnify its officers, directors, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(2) No director of the corporation shall be personally liable to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages, for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders; (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.
ELEVENTH. Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between this corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or between this corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court of equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on this application in a summary way of this corporation or of any creditor or stockholder thereof, or on the application of any receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions of Section 279 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code order a meeting of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the
 
stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in such manner as the said court directs. If a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, agree to any compromise or arrangement and to any reorganization of this corporation as consequence of such compromise or arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said application has been made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on all the stockholders or class of stockholders, of this corporation, as the case may be, and also on this corporation.
TWELFTH. The corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this certificate of incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
As provided in Article Seventh, paragraph (1), the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal By-Laws of the corporation by a vote of a majority of the entire Board except as otherwise provided in the By-Laws; and the stockholders may make, alter or repeal any By-Laws whether or not adopted by them, provided however, that any such additional By-Laws, alterations or repeal by the stockholders may be adopted only by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% or more of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors (considered for this purpose as one class) at a meeting of stockholders called for such purpose.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this certificate of incorporation or the By-Laws of the corporation (and in addition to any other vote that may be required by law, this certificate of incorporation or the By-Laws) the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding shares of the capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors (considered for this purpose as one class) shall be required to amend, alter or repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with Article Seventh paragraph (5)(a), Article Seventh paragraph (5)(d), Article Seventh paragraph (6), Article Ninth, Article Tenth or Article Twelfth of the certificate of incorporation.
THIRTEENTH. This amended and restated certificate of incorporation shall become effective on May 13, 2010.
 
Regions Financial Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, does hereby certify:
Corporation
The undersigned authorized officer of the Corporation, in accordance with the resolutions of the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") dated October 16, 2008, the resolutions of the Pricing Committee of the Board of Directors dated November 13, 2008, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, adopted the following resolution on November 13, 2008 creating a series of 3,500,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "".
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A
, that pursuant to the authority vested in the undersigned in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 16, 2008, the resolutions of the Pricing Committee of the Board of Directors dated November 13, 2008, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
Part 1. . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the "Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A" (the ""). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 3,500,000.
Designation and Number of Shares
Designated Preferred Stock
Part 2. . The Standard Provisions contained in attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein.
Standard Provisions
Annex A
Part 3. . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in hereto) as defined below:
Definitions
Annex A
(a) "" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
Common Stock
(b) "" means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year.
Dividend Payment Date
(c) "" means the Common Stock, and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
(d) "" means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
Liquidation Amount
(e) "" means $875,000,000.
Minimum Amount
(f) "" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively).
Parity Stock
 
(g) "" means the Original Issue Date.
Signing Date
Part 4. . Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent.
Certain Voting Matters
 
Section 1. . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
General Matters
Section 2. . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:
Standard Definitions
(a) "" means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.
Applicable Dividend Rate
(b) "" means the "" with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
appropriate Federal banking agency
(c) "" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders.
Business Combination
(d) "" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
Business Day
(e) "" means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
Bylaws
(f) "" means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.
Certificate of Designations
(g) "" means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
Charter
(h) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Period
(i) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Record Date
(j) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Liquidation Preference
(k) "" means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock are first issued.
Original Issue Date
(l) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
Preferred Director
(m) "" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock.
Preferred Stock
(n) "" means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).
Qualified Equity Offering
(o) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Share Dilution Amount
(p) "" mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.
Standard Provisions
 
(q) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Successor Preferred Stock
(r) "" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Voting Parity Stock
Section 3. .
Dividends
(a) . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (, no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a "", provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.
Rate
i.e.
Dividend Period
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a ""). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
Dividend Record Date
Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).
(b) . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the
Priority of Dividends
 
applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice, that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock. "" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
provided
Share Dilution Amount
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.
pro rata
Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
 
Section 4. .
Liquidation Rights
(a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the "").
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
Liquidation Preference
(b) . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.
Partial Payment
(c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
(d) . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
Section 5. .
Redemption
(a) . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.
Optional Redemption
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption; that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum
provided
 
Amount (plus the "" as defined in the relevant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (the "") in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
Minimum Amount
Successor Preferred Stock
The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.
(b) . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.
No Sinking Fund
(c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
Notice of Redemption
(d) . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
pro rata
(e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and
Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
 
terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
(f) . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock ( that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).
Status of Redeemed Shares
provided
Section 6. . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
Conversion
Section 7. .
Voting Rights
(a) . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
General
(b) . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the "" and each a "") to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned; that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
Preferred Stock Directors
Preferred Directors
Preferred Director
provided
 
(c) . So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
 2
/
3
% of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
(i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
(ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or
Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock
(iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.
provided
however
(d) . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
(e) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of
Procedures for Voting and Consents
 
the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.
Section 8. . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Record Holders
Section 9. . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.
Notices
Section 10. . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
No Preemptive Rights
Section 11. . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
Replacement Certificates
Section 12. . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.
Other Rights
 
Regions Financial Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify:
Corporation
The board of directors of the Corporation (the ""), in accordance with the restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, authorized the issuance and sale by the Corporation of shares of its preferred stock at a meeting duly convened and held on May 12, 2009 and authorized the formation of a Pricing Committee of the Board of Directors (the ""), and pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Committee in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the resolutions of the Board of Directors, the Committee adopted the following resolution on May 26, 2009 creating a series of 287,500 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "10% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B".
Board of Directors
Committee
, that pursuant to the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
Section 1. . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation a series of Preferred Stock designated as the "10% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B" (the ""). The authorized number of shares of Series B shall be 287,500. Each share of Series B shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series B.
Designation and Number of Shares
Series B
Section 2. . As used herein with respect to Series B:
Definitions
(a) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 22.
Agent Members
(b) "" means, except as provided in Section 12(e), the Average VWAP per share of Common Stock for the 20 consecutive Trading-Day period ending on the third Trading Day immediately preceding the Mandatory Conversion Date.
Applicable Market Value
(c) "" means the average of the VWAP for each Trading Day in the relevant period.
Average VWAP
(d) "" means the board of directors of the Corporation or, with respect to any action to be taken by such board of directors, any committee of the board of directors duly authorized to take such action.
Board of Directors
(e) "" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
Business Day
(f) "" means the restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
Bylaws
(g) "" means this Certificate of Designations, as it may be amended from time to time.
Certificate of Designations
(h) "" means the Corporation's restated certificate of incorporation, as it may be amended from time to time.
Charter
 
(i) "" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
Common Stock
(j) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9(a).
Conversion Date
(k) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).
Conversion Rate
(l) "" means the principal corporate trust office of the Transfer Agent at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be administered.
Corporate Trust Office
(m) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Corporation
(n) "" of the Common Stock on any day, means the Average VWAP of the Common Stock for the ten consecutive Trading-Day period ending on the earlier of the day in question and the day before the ex-date or other specified date with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation, appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence during such period of any event described in clauses (i) through (v) of Section 12(a). For purposes of this definition, "" means the first date on which the shares of the Common Stock trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive an issuance or distribution.
Current Market Price
ex-date
(o) "" means DTC or its nominee or any successor appointed by the Corporation.
Depositary
(p) "" means (i) the 15th calendar day of February, May, August and November of each year prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date and (ii) the Mandatory Conversion Date.
Dividend Payment Date
(q) "" means the period commencing on and including the a Dividend Payment Date (or, if no Dividend Payment Date has occurred, commencing on and including the Issue Date) and ending on and including the day immediately preceding the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date.
Dividend Period
(r) "" means (i) in the case of a payment of dividends upon a Mandatory Conversion, the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the second Trading Day immediately preceding the Mandatory Conversion Date, (ii) in the case of a payment of dividends upon an Optional Conversion, the five consecutive Trading Days commencing on the third Trading Day immediately following the date on which the Corporation receives a notice of conversion from the applicable Holder, and (iii) in the case of a payment of dividends upon a Fundamental Change Conversion or Early Conversion, the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Effective Date.
Dividend Reference Period
(s) "" means $0.01 per share, subject to adjustment on an inversely proportional basis whenever the Fixed Conversion Rates are adjusted, but no adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount for any adjustment made to the Fixed Conversion Rates pursuant to clause (iv) of Section 12(a). For the avoidance of doubt, the Dividend Threshold Amount will be zero in the case of a cash dividend amount that is not a regular, quarterly dividend.
Dividend Threshold Amount
(t) "" means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
(u) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8(a).
Early Conversion
(v) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8(b).
Early Conversion Date
(w) "" means (i), with respect to a Fundamental Change, the date upon which a Fundamental Change becomes effective, and (ii), in the event of an Early Conversion, the Early Conversion Date.
Effective Date
(x) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12(e).
Electing Share
(y) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12(e).
Exchange Property
(z) "" shall have the meaning set forth in clause (v) of Section 12(a).
Expiration Date
(aa) "" means, collectively, the Maximum Conversion Rate and the Minimum Conversion Rate.
Fixed Conversion Rates
 
(bb) a "" will be deemed to have occurred if any of the following occurs:
Fundamental Change
 
 
 
 
(cc) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a).
Fundamental Change Conversion
(dd) "" means the effective date of any Fundamental Change Conversion of Series B pursuant to Section 7.
Fundamental Change Conversion Date
(ee) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
Fundamental Change Conversion Notice
(ff) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a).
Fundamental Change Conversion Period
(gg) "" means the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate set forth in the table below for the applicable Effective Date of a Fundamental Change and the applicable Stock Price (as such Stock Prices in the column headings for the table below are adjusted pursuant to Section 12):
Fundamental Change Conversion Rate
 
 
 
If the Stock Price is between two stock price amounts (as such amount is adjusted from time to time) on the table or the Effective Date is between two dates on the table, the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the Fundamental Change Conversion Rates set forth for the higher and lower stock price amounts and the two dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year.
If the Stock Price is in excess of $100.00 per share (as such amount is adjusted from time to time), then the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate will be the Minimum Conversion Rate (as such amount is adjusted from time to time).
If the Stock Price is less than $1.00 per share (as such amount is adjusted from time to time) (the ""), then the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate will be determined as if the Stock Price equaled the Minimum Stock Price, using the straight-line interpolation, as described herein, if the Effective Date is between two dates on the table.
Minimum Stock Price
For purposes of the foregoing, "" means (i), in the case of a Fundamental Change described in clause (ii) of the definition of "" in which the holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the Fundamental Change, the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock, and (ii) in the case of all other Fundamental Changes or in the event of an Early Conversion, the Average VWAP of the Common Stock over the five Trading-Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Effective Date of the Fundamental Change.
Stock Price
Fundamental Change
(hh) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 22.
Global Preferred Share
(ii) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 22.
Global Shares Legend
(jj) "" means the Person in whose name the shares of the Series B are registered, which may be treated by the Corporation and the Transfer Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series B for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.
Holder
(kk) "" means $1,000.00 per share of Series B.
Initial Liquidation Preference
(ll) "" shall have the meaning set forth in clause (ii) of Section 5(b).
Initial Price
(mm) "" shall mean May 27, 2009, the original date of issuance of the Series B.
Issue Date
(nn) "" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation established after the Issue Date the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series ranks senior to or on a parity with the Series B as to dividend rights and/or as to rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
(oo) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(a).
Liquidation Preference
(pp) "" means a conversion pursuant to Section 5.
Mandatory Conversion
(qq) "" means December 15, 2010.
Mandatory Conversion Date
(rr) "" means any of the following events has occurred: (i) any suspension of, or limitation imposed on, trading by the relevant exchange or quotation system during any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer and whether by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the relevant exchange or quotation system or otherwise relating to the Common Stock or in futures or option contracts relating to the Common Stock on the relevant exchange or quotation system, (ii) any event (other than a failure to open or a closure as described below) that disrupts or impairs the ability of market participants during any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer in general to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, the Common Stock on the relevant exchange or quotation system or futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on any relevant exchange or quotation system, or (iii) the failure to open of the exchange or quotation system on which futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock are traded or the closure of such exchange or quotation system prior to its respective scheduled closing time for the regular trading session on such day (without regard to after hours
Market Disruption Event
 
or other trading outside the regular trading session hours) unless such earlier closing time is announced by such exchange or quotation system at least one hour prior to the earlier of the actual closing time for the regular trading session on such day and the submission deadline for orders to be entered into such exchange or quotation system for execution at the actual closing time on such day.
(ss) "" shall have the meaning set forth in clause (iii) of Section 5(b).
Maximum Conversion Rate
(tt) "" shall have the meaning set forth in clause (i) of Section 5(b).
Minimum Conversion Rate
(uu) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of Fundamental Change Conversion Rate.
Minimum Stock Price
(vv) "" means the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, or the Secretary of the Corporation.
Officer
(ww) "" means a certificate of the Corporation, signed by a duly authorized Officer and a duly authorized principal financial or accounting officer of the Corporation.
Officers' Certificate
(xx) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(a).
Optional Conversion
(yy) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(e).
Optional Conversion Date
(zz) "" means the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A of the Corporation and any other class of capital stock or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation established after the Issue Date, the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series will rank on a parity with the Series B as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively).
Parity Stock
(aaa) "" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.
Person
(bbb) "" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series B.
Preferred Stock
(ccc) "" means (i) with respect to payment of dividends on the Series B, the 15th calendar day immediately preceding the relevant Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for purpose of an adjustment to a conversion rate pursuant to Section 12, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of holders of the Common Stock entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
Record Date
(ddd) "" means, as to any day, the Holder of record of the Series B as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation at the close of business on such day.
Record Holder
(eee) "" means the Transfer Agent.
Registrar
(fff) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12(e).
Reorganization Event
(ggg) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.
Series B
(hhh) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(h).
Share Cap
(iii) "" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
Share Dilution Amount
 
(jjj) "" shall have the meaning set forth in clause (iii) of Section 12(a).
Spin-Off
(kkk) "" shall have the meaning set forth in clause (i) of Section 5(b).
Threshold Appreciation Price
(lll) "" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading, or, if the Common Stock (or any other securities, cash or other property into which the Series B becomes convertible in connection with any Reorganization Event) is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, any day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock (or such other property) is listed is open for trading, or, if the Common Stock (or such other property) is not listed on a national securities exchange, any Business Day. A "" only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system.
Trading Day
Trading Day
(mmm) "" means Computershare Investor Services LLC, subject to the appointment of a successor transfer agent as provided in Section 21.
Transfer Agent
(nnn) "" means a Holder that is not treated as a United States person for U.S. federal income tax purposes as defined under Section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
U.S. Alien Holder
(ooo) "" means, for purposes of determining the Conversion Rate, on any Trading Day, the volume weighted average price per share of the Common Stock as displayed on Bloomberg (or any successor service) page RF <Equity> AQR in respect of the period from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on such Trading Date; or, if such price is not available, the market value per share of Common Stock on such Trading Day as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Corporation for such purpose.
VWAP
Section 3. .
Dividends
(a) Holders of shares of outstanding Series B shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds of the Corporation legally available therefor, cumulative dividends at the rate per annum of 10.00% per share on the Initial Liquidation Preference (equivalent to $100.00 per annum per share), payable quarterly on each Dividend Payment Date through November 15, 2010, commencing August 15, 2009, and on December 15, 2010, in arrears. Dividends shall accumulate from the most recent date as to which dividends shall have been paid or, if no dividends have been paid, from the Issue Date, whether or not in any Dividend Period or Periods there have been funds of the Corporation legally available for the payment of such dividends and shall accrue, whether or not earned or declared, from and after the Issue Date. Dividends will be payable on a Dividend Payment Date to Holders that are Record Holders with respect to such Dividend Payment Date, but only to the extent a dividend has been declared to be payable on such Dividend Payment Date. If any Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, the dividend payable on such date shall be paid on the next Business Day without adjustment. Accumulations of dividends on shares of Series B shall not bear interest. Dividends payable for any period other than a full Dividend Period (based on the number of days elapsed during the period) shall be computed on the basis of days elapsed over a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(b) No dividend shall be declared or paid upon, or any sum set apart for the payment of dividends upon, any outstanding share of the Series B with respect to any Dividend Period unless all dividends for all preceding Dividend Periods shall have been declared and paid or declared and a sufficient sum or number of shares of Common Stock shall have been set apart for the payment of such dividends, upon all outstanding shares of Series B.
(c) Holders of shares of Series B shall not be entitled to any dividends on the Series B, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Series B which may be in arrears.
 
(d) So long as any share of Series B remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to this Section 3(d) in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable, dividends on such amounts), on all outstanding shares of Series B have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the Holders of shares of Series B on the applicable Record Date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice, that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by any broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by any broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a shareholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any shareholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than for the beneficial ownership by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Issue Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock.
provided
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the Holders thereof on the applicable Record Date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Series B and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Series B and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Series B and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (including, if applicable, dividends on such amount) (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the Holders of Series B prior to such Dividend Payment Date.
pro rata
Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities of the Corporation, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and Holders shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
Section 4. .
Method of Payment of Dividends
(a) All dividends on the Series B, whether or not for a current Dividend Period or any prior Dividend Period, paid prior to any conversion of the Series B shall be made in cash.
 
(b) All dividends on the Series B payable in connection with the payment of accrued and unpaid dividends upon an Early Conversion or a Fundamental Change Conversion shall be paid by delivery of Common Stock.
(c) All dividends (or any portion of any dividend) on the Series B (including accrued and unpaid dividends) payable upon a Mandatory Conversion or an Optional Conversion may be paid, as determined in the Corporation's sole discretion:
(i) in cash;
(ii) by delivery of shares of Common Stock; or
(iii) through any combination of cash and Common Stock.
(d) Common Stock issued in payment or partial payment of a dividend shall be valued for such purpose at 97% of the Average VWAP per share of Common Stock for the five Trading Days during the applicable Dividend Reference Period.
(e) If the Corporation elects to make all or any portion of the dividend payments payable upon a Mandatory Conversion or an Optional Conversion in Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(c), the Corporation shall give notice to Holders thereof of such election and the portion of such payment that shall be made in cash and the portion of such payment that shall be made in Common Stock no later than 10 Trading Days prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date and the Corporation shall deliver shares of the Common Stock and cash, if applicable, in respect of such payment on December 15, 2010 (or, in the case of any dividend paid pursuant to Section 6(f), in compliance with the notification requirements set forth in Section 6(f)). If the Corporation does not provide notice of its election to pay any dividend, or a portion thereof, upon the conversion of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4(e) or Section 6(f) in Common Stock, the Corporation will pay such dividend entirely in cash.
(f) In respect of any shares of Common Stock issued in payment or partial payment of a dividend to a U.S. Alien Holder, the Corporation may, in lieu of delivering all such shares of Common Stock to such U.S. Alien Holder, withhold and sell (or direct the Transfer Agent or any paying agent on behalf of the Corporation to withhold and sell) such number of shares of Common Stock as the Corporation deems necessary, to result in proceeds from such sale (after deduction of customary commissions, which shall be for the account of such U.S. Alien Holder) to pay all or any part of any U.S. withholding tax obligation that the Corporation has (as determined by it in its sole discretion) in respect of the payment or partial payment of such dividend of shares of Common Stock to such U.S. Alien Holder.
(g) Subject to Section 11, no fractional shares of Common Stock shall be delivered to Holders in payment or partial payment of a dividend.
(h) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the number of shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series B (including dividends paid in shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Section 4 or Section 6(f)) exceed an amount equal to the product of (i) 1.6 and (ii) the Maximum Conversion Rate, subject to adjustment in the same manner as each Fixed Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 12 (the ""). To the extent the Corporation delivers the maximum number of whole shares of Common Stock equal to the Share Cap on the Series B with respect to which the Corporation has notified the Holder that such dividends would be paid in shares of Common Stock in accordance with Section 4(e) or Section 6(f), the Corporation shall be deemed to have paid in full such amount of accrued and unpaid dividends on such Series B. However, in the Corporation's sole discretion, the Corporation may elect to pay any such deficiency resulting from the Share Cap in cash.
Share Cap
 
Section 5. .
Mandatory Conversion on the Mandatory Conversion Date
(a) Each share of Series B shall automatically convert (unless previously converted in an Optional Conversion, Early Conversion or Fundamental Change Conversion) on the Mandatory Conversion Date into a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate.
(b) The "" shall be as follows:
Conversion Rate
 
 
 
(c) The Minimum Conversion Rate, the Maximum Conversion Rate, the Threshold Appreciation Price and the Initial Price are each subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.
(d) The Holders of Series B on the Mandatory Conversion Date shall have the right to receive an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series B (in the manner provided in Section 4; that if the Corporation elects to pay any accrued and unpaid dividends through the issuance of additional shares of Common Stock, the Corporation shall have provided the Holders of the Series B notice of any such election and the portion of such payment that will be made in Common Stock 10 Trading Days prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date, and the Corporation shall deliver shares of Common Stock and cash, if applicable, in respect of such payment on the Mandatory Conversion Date), whether or not declared prior to that date, for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date and all prior Dividend Periods (other than previously declared dividends on the Series B payable to Record Holders as of a prior date), that the Corporation is legally permitted to pay such dividends at such time.
provided
provided
Section 6. .
Optional Conversion at the Option of the Holder
(a) Other than during the Fundamental Change Conversion Period, shares of the Series B are convertible, in whole or in part, at the option of the Holder thereof ("") at any time prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date, into shares of Common Stock at the Minimum Conversion Rate, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 12.
Optional Conversion
(b) Any written notice of conversion pursuant to this Section 6 shall be duly executed by the Holder, and specify:
 
 
 
(c) If specified by the Holder in the notice of conversion that shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B shall be issued to a person other than the Holder surrendering the shares of Series B being converted, then the Holder shall pay or cause to be paid any transfer or similar taxes payable in connection with the shares of Common Stock so issued.
 
(d) Upon receipt by the Transfer Agent of a completed and duly executed notice of conversion as set forth in Section 6(b), compliance with Section 6(c), if applicable, and surrender of a certificate representing share(s) of Series B to be converted (if held in certificated form), the Corporation shall, within three Business Days or as soon as possible thereafter (except in the case of shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to Section 6(f)), issue and shall instruct the Transfer Agent to register the number of shares of Common Stock to which such Holder shall be entitled upon conversion in the name(s) specified by such Holder in the notice of conversion. In the event that there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of Series B, only part of which are to be converted, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such Holder or such Holder's designee in the manner provided in the immediately preceding sentence a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Series B that shall not have been converted.
(e) The issuance by the Corporation of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of Series B in accordance with the terms hereof shall be deemed effective immediately prior to the close of business on the day (the "") of receipt by the Transfer Agent of the notice of conversion and other documents, if any, set forth in Section 6(b), compliance with Section 6(c), if applicable, and the surrender by such Holder or such Holder's designee of the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Series B to be converted (if held in certificated form), duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto).
Optional Conversion Date
(f) Subject to Section 6(g), a Holder of a share of Series B on the Optional Conversion Date with respect to such share shall have the right, subject to the Share Cap, to receive all accrued and unpaid dividends (in the manner provided in Section 4); that if the Corporation elects to pay any accrued and unpaid dividends through the issuance of additional shares of Common Stock, the Corporation shall have provided the Holder of the Series B being converted notice of any such election and the portion of such payment that will be made in Common Stock not later than two Trading Days after the Optional Conversion Date, and the Corporation shall deliver shares of Common Stock and cash, if applicable, in respect of such payment no later than the eighth Trading Day following the Optional Conversion Date), whether or not declared prior to that date, for the portion of the then-current Dividend Period until the Optional Conversion Date and for all prior Dividend Periods ending on or prior to the Dividend Payment Date immediately preceding the Optional Conversion Date (other than previously declared dividends on the Series B payable to Record Holders as of a prior date), that the Corporation is then legally permitted to pay such dividends. Except as described above, upon any optional conversion of the Series B, the Corporation shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends on the Series B.
provided
provided
(g) Notwithstanding Section 6(f), in the case of a conversion that occurs during the period from 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on a Record Date for any dividend to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the following Dividend Payment Date:
 
 
 
 
Section 7. .
Fundamental Change Conversion
(a) In the event of a Fundamental Change occurring prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date, the Holders of the Series B shall have the right to convert their shares of Series B during a period (the "") that begins on the Effective Date of such Fundamental Change and ends on a date that is the earlier of (i) the Mandatory Conversion Date and (ii) the date that is 20 days after the Effective Date (such right of the Holders to convert their shares pursuant to this Section 7(a) being the "") at the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate.
Fundamental Change Conversion Period
Fundamental Change Conversion
(b) To the extent practicable, at least 20 Business Days prior to the date on which the Corporation anticipates consummating the Fundamental Change (but in any event not later than two Business Days following the Corporation becoming aware of the occurrence of a Fundamental Change), a written notice (the "") shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Record Holders as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:
Fundamental Change Conversion Notice
 
 
 
(c) A Holder who converts shares of Series B pursuant to this Section 7 shall also have the right, subject to the Share Cap, to receive all accrued and unpaid dividends (in the manner provided in Section 4), payable in shares of Common Stock, for the portion of the then-current Dividend Period until the Fundamental Change Conversion Date and for all prior Dividend Periods ending on or prior to the Dividend Payment Date immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Conversion Date (other than previously declared dividends on the Series B payable to Record Holders as of a prior date), that the Corporation is then legally permitted to pay such dividends.
provided
(d) To convert shares of Series B pursuant to this Section 7, a Holder shall deliver to the Transfer Agent at its Corporate Trust Office, no earlier than the Effective Date of the Fundamental Change, and no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time on or before the date by which the Fundamental Change Conversion right must be exercised as specified in the notice, the certificate(s) (if such shares are held in certificated form) evidencing the shares of Series B which such Holder is requesting to convert, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation, or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto, or in blank, with a written notice to the Corporation stating the Holder's intention to convert early in connection with the Fundamental Change containing the information set forth in Section 6(b) and providing the Corporation with payment instructions.
(e) To the extent that a Fundamental Change occurs which event also constitutes a Reorganization Event, then, in lieu of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable upon a conversion, the Corporation shall deliver securities, cash and/or other property as contemplated by Section 12(e). To the extent a Holder does not convert its shares of Series B pursuant to this Section 7 and a Reorganization Event has occurred, in lieu of shares of Common Stock, the Corporation shall deliver to such Holder on the Mandatory Conversion Date, an Optional Conversion Date or Early Conversion Date, such cash, securities and other property as determined in accordance with Section 12(e).
(f) Upon a Fundamental Change Conversion, the Transfer Agent shall, in accordance with the instructions provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation as set forth above, deliver to the Holder such cash and securities issuable upon such Fundamental Change Conversion, together with payment of cash in lieu of any fraction of a share, as provided in Section 11. Such delivery shall take place upon, and only to the extent of, the consummation of such Fundamental Change Conversion.
 
(g) In the event that a Fundamental Change Conversion is effected with respect to shares of Series B representing less than all the shares of Series B held by a Holder, upon such Fundamental Change Conversion, the Corporation shall execute and the Transfer Agent shall countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B as to which Fundamental Change Conversion was not effected.
Section 8. .
Early Conversion at the Option of the Corporation
(a) At any time prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date, shares of the Series B are convertible, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation (an ""), into shares of Common Stock at the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate.
Early Conversion
(b) No more than 60 days prior to the Early Conversion Date and no less than 45 days prior to the Early Conversion Date, (i) a written notice (the "") shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Record Holders as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation, (ii) a press release shall be issued by the Corporation and (iii) the Corporation shall disclose on its website (http://www.regions.com, or a successor website) its exercise of the Early Conversion right. Such notice, press release and website disclosure shall contain:
Early Conversion Notice
 
 
(c) If the Corporation exercises its Early Conversion right pursuant to this Section 8 to convert less than all outstanding shares of Series B, the Corporation must select the particular shares to be converted (i) by lot, on a basis or by any other method the Corporation deems fair and appropriate or (ii) if the shares of Series B are in issued in the form of Global Preferred Shares, by a method in accordance with the procedures of DTC, but only if such method is not prohibited by the rules of any stock exchange or quotation association on which the Series B is then traded or quoted.
pro rata
(d) In the event of any Early Conversion, the Corporation shall not be required to (i) issue, register the transfer of, or exchange any shares of the Series B during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of selection for conversion and ending at the close of business on the day of mailing of the Early Conversion Notice or (ii) transfer or exchange any shares of Series B so selected, except, in the case of any shares of Series B being converted in part, any portion thereof not to be converted.
(e) A Holder of a share of Series B on the Early Conversion Date with respect to such share shall have the right, subject to the Share Cap, to receive all accrued and unpaid dividends (in the manner provided in Section 4), payable in shares of Common Stock, for the portion of the then-current Dividend Period until the Early Conversion Date and for all prior Dividend Periods ending on or prior to the Dividend Payment Date immediately preceding the Early Conversion Date (other than previously declared dividends on the Series B payable to Record Holders as of a prior date), that the Corporation is then legally permitted to pay such dividends.
provided
Section 9. .
Conversion Procedures
(a) On the Mandatory Conversion Date, the Fundamental Change Conversion Date or any Optional Conversion Date or Early Conversion Date (each, a ""), dividends on any shares of Series B converted to Common Stock shall cease to accrue and cumulate, and such shares of Series B shall cease to be outstanding, in each case, subject to the right of Holders of such shares to receive shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Series B are convertible and any accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to which they are otherwise entitled pursuant to Section 5, Section 6, Section 7 or Section 8, as applicable.
Conversion Date
 
(b) The person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon any such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the close of business on the applicable Conversion Date. No allowance or adjustment, except as set forth in Section 12, shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock of record as of any date prior to such applicable Conversion Date. Prior to such applicable Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of any shares of Series B shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders of shares of Series B shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by virtue of holding shares of Series B.
(c) Shares of Series B duly converted in accordance herewith, or otherwise reacquired by the Corporation, shall resume the status of authorized and unissued Preferred Stock, undesignated as to series and available for future issuance (provided that any such cancelled shares of Series B may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Series B).
(d) In the event that a Holder of shares of Series B shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of such Series B should be registered, the Corporation shall be entitled to register such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder of such Series B as shown on the records of the Corporation. In the case of a Mandatory Conversion, in the event that shares of the Preferred Stock are then held in certificated form, in the event that a Holder of Series B shall not by written notice to the Company elect to receive shares of Common Stock deliverable upon such Mandatory Conversion in certificated form, the name in which such shares should be registered and the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to register such shares, and make such payment, in book-entry form, in the name of the Holder of such Series B as shown on the records of the Corporation.
Section 10. .
Reservation of Common Stock
(a) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or shares held in the treasury of the Corporation, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series B as herein provided, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series B then outstanding. For purposes of this Section 10(a), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series B shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion of shares of Series B, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock reacquired and held in the treasury of the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such treasury shares are free and clear of all liens, charges, security interests or encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).
(c) All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series B shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders),
(d) Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Series B, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.
 
(e) The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation shall, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B; provided, however, that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Series B into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.
Section 11. .
Fractional Shares
(a) No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series B or as a result of any payment of dividends on the Series B in shares of Common Stock.
(b) In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any Mandatory Conversion, Optional Conversion, Fundamental Change Conversion or Early Conversion or as a result of the election of the Corporation to pay a dividend in shares of Common Stock in accordance with Section 4, the Corporation shall at its option either (i) issue to such Holder an amount of shares rounded up to the next whole share of Common Stock or (ii) pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the same fraction of the Average VWAP of the Common Stock on the Trading Day preceding the Conversion Date.
(c) If more than one share of the Series B is surrendered for conversion at one time by or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Series B so surrendered. If the Corporation pays dividends in Common Stock on more than one share of the Series B held at any one time by or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock payable in connection with such dividend shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Series B so held.
Section 12. .
Anti-Dilution Adjustments to the Fixed Conversion Rates
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (ii) shall become effective on the date that is immediately after the Record Date.
 
 
 
 
 
then each Fixed Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
An adjustment to each Fixed Conversion Rate made pursuant to this clause (iii)(A) shall be made successively whenever any such distribution is made and shall become effective on the Record Date.
 
 
An adjustment to each Fixed Conversion Rate made pursuant to this clause (iii)(B) will occur on the 10th Trading Day from and including the effective date of the Spin-Off; that in respect of any conversion within the 10 Trading Days immediately following and including the date of the Spin-Off, references with respect to the Spin-Off to "the 10 consecutive Trading-Day period" shall be deemed replaced with a period of consecutive Trading Days containing such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the effective date of such Spin-Off and the Conversion Date and the adjustment in respect of such conversion shall occur immediately prior to the conversion.
provided
 
If any such dividend or distribution described in this clause (iii) is declared but not paid or made, each new Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Fixed Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
 
 
An adjustment to each Fixed Conversion Rate made pursuant to this clause (iv) shall become effective on the date fixed for determination of the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive such dividend or distribution. If any dividend or distribution described in this clause (iv) is declared but not so paid or made, each new Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Fixed Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
 
 
If the application of the foregoing formula would result in a decrease in a Fixed Conversion Rate, no adjustment to such Fixed Conversion Rate will be made. Any adjustment to a Fixed Conversion Rate made pursuant to this clause (v) shall become effective on the date immediately following the last Trading Day included in the determination of the Average VWAP of the Common Stock for purposes of SP
1
above; that in respect of any conversion within the 10 Trading-Day period
provided
 
commencing on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Date, references to the "10 consecutive Trading-Day period" with respect to this clause (v) shall be deemed replaced with a period of consecutive Trading Days containing such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the Expiration Date and the Conversion Date, and the adjustment in respect of such conversion shall occur immediately prior to the conversion. If the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries is obligated to purchase Common Stock pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer but is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchase or all such purchases are rescinded, each new Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Fixed Conversion Rate that would be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made.
 
(b) The Corporation may make such increases in each Fixed Conversion Rate, in addition to any other increases required by this Section 12, if the Board of Directors deems it advisable in order to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of the Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of the Corporation's shares (or issuance of rights or warrants to acquire shares) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes or for any other reasons; that the same proportionate adjustment must be made to each Fixed Conversion Rate. If any adjustment to the Fixed Conversions is treated as a distribution to any U.S. Alien Holder which is subject to withholding tax, the Corporation (or Transfer Agent or any paying agent on behalf of the Corporation ) may set off any withholding tax that is required to be collected with respect to such deemed distribution against cash payments and other distributions otherwise deliverable to such Holder.
Adjustment for Tax Reasons.
provided
(c) .
Calculation of Adjustments; Adjustments to Threshold Appreciation Price, Initial Price and Fundamental Change Stock Price
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Whenever a Fixed Conversion Rate or the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate, as applicable, is to be adjusted, the Corporation shall: (i) compute such adjusted Fixed Conversion Rate or the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate, as applicable, and prepare and transmit to the Transfer Agent an Officers' Certificate setting forth such adjusted Fixed Conversion Rate or the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate, as applicable, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; (ii) as soon as practicable following the determination of a revised Fixed Conversion Rate or Fundamental Change Conversion Rate, as applicable, provide, or cause to be provided, a written notice to the Holders of the Series B of the occurrence of such event and (iii) as soon as practicable following the determination of a revised Fixed Conversion Rate or Fundamental Change Conversion Rate, as applicable, provide, or cause to be provided, to the Holders of the Series B a statement setting forth in reasonable detail the method by which the adjustment to such Fixed Conversion Rate or the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate, as applicable, was determined and setting forth such revised Fixed Conversion Rate or Fundamental Change Conversion Rate, as applicable.
Notice of Adjustment.
 
 
 
 
each share of Series B outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, without the consent of the Holders of the Series B, after such Reorganization Event, be convertible into the kind of securities, cash and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event (without any interest thereon and without any right to dividends or distribution thereon which have a record date that is prior to the Conversion Date) per share of Common Stock (the "") if the Holder of such share of Series B had converted such share into Common Stock immediately prior to such Reorganization Event and exercised his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event ( that if the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such Reorganization Event and in respect of which such rights of election shall have been exercised (""), then, for the purpose of this Section 12(e) the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event by the holder of each Electing Share shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the kinds and amounts so receivable per share by the holders of the Electing Shares). The amount of Exchange Property receivable upon any Mandatory Conversion, Optional Conversion, Fundamental Change Conversion or Early Conversion shall be determined based upon the Conversion Rate in effect on such Conversion Date. The applicable Conversion Rate for purposes of such Mandatory Conversion, Optional Conversion, Fundamental Change Conversion or Early Conversion shall be (x) the Minimum Conversion Rate, in the case of an Optional Conversion Date, (y) determined based upon the definition of Conversion Rate set forth in Section 5(b) in the case of the Mandatory Conversion Date, in each case, determined using the Applicable Market Value at such time, (z) determined on the basis of the Fundamental Change Conversion Rate in the case of the Fundamental Change Conversion Date or an Early Conversion Date.
Exchange Property
provided
Electing Share
For purposes of this Section 12(e), "" shall be deemed to refer to the Applicable Market Value of the Exchange Property and such value shall be determined (A) with respect to any publicly traded securities that compose all or part of the Exchange Property, based on the volume weighted average price of such securities, (B) in the case of any cash that composes all or part of the Exchange Property, based on the amount of such cash and (C) in the case of any other property that composes all or part of the Exchange Property, based on the value of such property, as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Corporation for this purpose.
Applicable Market Value
The above provisions of this Section 12(e) shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 12 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.
The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitute the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 12(e).
(f) For purposes of this Section 12, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Corporation but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
 
Section 13. .
Liquidation Rights
(a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, each Holder of Series B shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series B, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock of the Corporation, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) $1,000.00 per share of Series B and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends on each share of Series B, whether or not declared, to the date fixed for liquidation, dissolution or winding up (such amounts collectively, the "").
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
Liquidation Preference
(b) . If in any distribution described in Section 13(a) the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Series B and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Series B as to such distribution, Holders of Series B and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions (including, if applicable, dividends on such amount) to which they are entitled.
Partial Payment
(c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all Holders of Series B and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Series B as to such distribution has been paid in full, the Holders of the Series B will have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof).
Residual Distributions
(d) . For purposes of this Section 13, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the Holders of Series B receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
Section 14. . The Series B will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series B will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series B.
No Sinking Fund
Section 15. . Shares of Series B that are repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock ( that any such cancelled shares of Series B may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Series B).
Status of Repurchased Shares
provided
Section 16. .
Voting Rights
(a) . The Holders of Series B shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law. Holders of shares of Series B will be entitled to one vote for each such share on any matter on which Holders of Series B are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent.
General
(b) . So long as any shares of Series B are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the affirmative vote or consent of the Holders of at least 66
Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
 2
/
3
% of the shares of Series B at the time outstanding and all other Parity Stock having similar voting rights that are exercisable, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
 
 
 
 
, however, that for all purposes of this Section 16(b), the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Series B with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the Holders of outstanding shares of the Series B.
provided
(c) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the Holders of Series B (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Series B is listed or traded at the time.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
Section 17. . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Series B may deem and treat the Record Holder of any share of Series B as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Record Holders
Section 18. . All notices or communications in respect of Series B shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Series B are issued in book-entry form through DTC or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the Holders of Series B in any manner permitted by such facility.
Notices
Section 19. . No share of Series B shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted. The Series B will not be redeemable.
No Preemptive Rights; No Redemption Right
 
Section 20. .
Replacement Stock Certificates
(a) If physical certificates are issued, and any of the Series B certificates shall be mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed, the Corporation shall, at the expense of the Holder, issue, in exchange and in substitution for and upon cancellation of the mutilated Series B certificate, or in lieu of and substitution for the Series B certificate lost, stolen or destroyed, a new Series B certificate of like tenor and representing an equivalent amount of shares of Series B, but only upon receipt of evidence of such loss, theft or destruction of such Series B certificate and indemnity, if requested, satisfactory to the Corporation and the Transfer Agent.
(b) The Corporation is not required to issue any certificate representing the Series B on or after the Mandatory Conversion Date. In lieu of the delivery of a replacement certificate following the Mandatory Conversion Date, the Transfer Agent, upon delivery of the evidence and indemnity described above, shall deliver the shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to the terms of the Series B formerly evidenced by the certificate.
Section 21. .
Transfer Agent, Registrar, Conversion and Dividend Disbursing Agent
The duly appointed transfer agent, registrar, conversion and dividend disbursing agent for the Series B shall be the Transfer Agent. The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, remove the Transfer Agent in accordance with the agreement between the Corporation and the Transfer Agent; that the Corporation shall appoint a successor transfer agent who shall accept such appointment prior to the effectiveness of such removal. Upon any such removal or appointment, the Corporation shall send notice thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of the Series B.
provided
Section 22. . The Series B shall be issued in the form of one or more permanent global shares of Series B in definitive, fully registered form with the global legend (the "") as set forth on the form of Series B certificate attached hereto as Exhibit A (each, a ""), which is hereby incorporated in and expressly made a part hereof. The Global Preferred Shares may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rules, agreements to which the Corporation is subject, if any, or usage ( that any such notation, legend or endorsement is in a form acceptable to the Corporation). The Global Preferred Shares shall be deposited on behalf of the Holders of the Series B represented thereby with the Registrar, at its New York office as custodian for DTC or a Depositary, and registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary, duly executed by the Corporation and countersigned and registered by the Registrar as hereinafter provided. The aggregate number of shares represented by each Global Preferred Share may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Registrar and the Depositary or its nominee as hereinafter provided. This Section 22 shall apply only to a Global Preferred Share deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary. The Corporation shall execute and the Registrar shall, in accordance with this Section 22, countersign and deliver initially one or more Global Preferred Shares that (i) shall be registered in the name of Cede & Co. or other nominee of the Depositary and (ii) shall be delivered by the Registrar to Cede & Co. or pursuant to instructions received from Cede & Co. or held by the Registrar as custodian for the Depositary pursuant to an agreement between the Depositary and the Registrar. Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Certificate of Designations, with respect to any Global Preferred Share held on their behalf by the Depositary or by the Registrar as the custodian of the Depositary, or under such Global Preferred Share, and the Depositary may be treated by the Corporation, the Registrar and any agent of the Corporation or the Registrar as the absolute owner of such Global Preferred Share for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Corporation, the Registrar or any agent of the Corporation or the Registrar from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices of the Depositary governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of a beneficial interest in any Global Preferred Share. The Holder of the Convertible Preferred Shares may grant proxies or otherwise authorize any Person to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take pursuant to the Convertible Preferred Shares, this Certificate of Designations or the Charter. Owners of beneficial interests in Global Preferred Shares shall not be entitled to receive physical delivery of certificated shares of Series B, unless (x) the Depositary is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Preferred Shares and the
Form
Global Shares Legend
Global Preferred Share
provided
Agent Members
 
Corporation does not appoint a qualified replacement for the Depositary within 90 days or (y) the Depositary ceases to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act and the Corporation does not appoint a qualified replacement for the Depositary within 90 days. In any such case, the Global Preferred Shares shall be exchanged in whole for definitive shares of Series B in registered form, with the same terms and of an equal aggregate Liquidation Preference. Definitive shares of Series B shall be registered in the name or names of the Person or Person specified by the Depositary in a written instrument to the Registrar.
Section 23. . The Corporation shall pay any and all stock transfer and documentary stamp taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of Series B or shares of Common Stock or other securities issued on account of Series B pursuant hereto or certificates representing such shares or securities. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Series B or Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the shares of Series B with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any person other than a payment to the Holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the person otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.
Stock Transfer and Stamp Taxes
Section 24. . The shares of Series B shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.
Other Rights
 
Exhibit A
 
 
 
 
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT ARE NOT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS, DEPOSITS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF A BANK AND ARE NOT INSURED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION OR ANY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY
THE CORPORATION WILL FURNISH WITHOUT CHARGE TO EACH STOCKHOLDER WHO SO REQUESTS THE POWERS, DESIGNATIONS, PREFERENCES AND RELATIVE PARTICIPATING, OPTIONAL OR SPECIAL RIGHTS OF EACH CLASS OF STOCK OF SERIES THEREOF OF THE CORPORATION AND THE QUALIFICATIONS, LIMITATIONS OR RESTRICTIONS OF SUCH PREFERENCES AND/OR RIGHTS. SUCH REQUEST SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE CORPORATION OR THE TRANSFER AGENT.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC "), TO THE CORPORATION OR THE TRANSFER AGENT NAMED ON THE FACE OF THIS CERTIFICATE, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL IN AS MUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO. HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE STATEMENT WITH RESPECT TO SHARES. IN CONNECTION WITH ANY TRANSFER, THE HOLDER WILL DELIVER TO THE TRANSFER AGENT NAMED ON THE FACE OF THIS CERTIFICATE SUCH CERTIFICATES AND OTHER INFORMATION AS SUCH TRANSFER AGENT MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE TO CONFIRM THAT THE TRANSFER COMPLIES WITH THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS.
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 

EXHIBIT 3.2
 
The registered office shall be established and maintained at the office of the Corporation Service Company, in the City of Wilmington, in the County of New Castle, in the State of Delaware, and said corporation shall be the registered agent of this Corporation in charge thereof.
 
The Corporation may have other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint or the business of the Corporation may require.
 
The principal place of business of the Corporation shall be in Birmingham, Alabama.
 
Annual meetings of stockholders for the election of Directors and for such other business as may be stated in the notice of the meeting, shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, and at such time and date as the Board of Directors, by resolution, shall determine and as set forth in the notice of the meeting.
At each annual meeting, the stockholders entitled to vote shall elect Directors, and they may transact such other corporate business as may properly come before the meeting.
 
Special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes, other than the election of Directors, may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Secretary, or by resolution of the Directors. Special meetings of stockholders may be held at such time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting.
 
Each stockholder entitled to vote in accordance with the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation and in accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws shall be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy,
for each share of stock entitled to vote held by such stockholder, but no proxy shall be voted after eleven (11) months from its date unless such proxy provides for a longer period. A stockholder may authorize another person to act as proxy by transmitting, or authorizing the transmission of, a telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission to the person authorized to act as proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization, or other person authorized by the person who will act as proxy to receive the transmission, in each case as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the presiding officer of the meeting may determine from time to time. Such proxy shall be filed with the secretary of the Corporation before or at the time of the meeting. Except as may be otherwise required by the Certificate of Incorporation, each Director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast (meaning the number of shares voted "for" a nominee must exceed the number of shares voted "against" such nominee) at any meeting for the election of Directors at which a quorum is present, provided that the Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast (instead of by votes cast "for" or "against" a nominee) at any meeting at which a quorum is present for which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice in compliance with the applicable requirements for stockholder nominations for Director set forth in these By-Laws and (ii) such proposed nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the tenth day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. In all matters other than the election of Directors, the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast "for" or "against" the matter by stockholders entitled to vote on the subject matter, whether present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting, shall be the act of the stockholders, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or as otherwise required by Delaware law or applicable listing standards. Abstentions and broker non-votes shall not be treated as affirmative votes "for" or "against" and shall not be taken into account in determining whether a matter is approved.
A complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the ensuing election, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each, and the number of shares held by each, shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified at the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
 
A majority of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at meetings of stockholders. For purposes of the foregoing, where a separate vote by class or classes is required for any matter, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or classes, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum to take action with respect to that vote on that matter. Two or more classes or series of stock shall be considered a single class if the holders thereof are entitled to vote together as a single class at the meeting. In determining whether a quorum is present, shares held by a subsidiary corporation owned by this Corporation, and treasury shares, shall not be counted. If less than a majority of the outstanding shares are represented, a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice, but until a quorum is secured no other business may be transacted. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until an adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
 
No action required to be taken or which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation may be taken without a meeting, and the power of stockholders to consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
 
Written notice, stating the place, date and time of the meeting, and the general nature of the business to be considered, shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
 
(A)        Annual Meetings of Stockholders. (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this By-Law, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law.
(2)        For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of Section 8 of this Article II, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the date of the preceding year's proxy statement; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting were held the previous year or that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or after the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not later than the close of business on the later of the 120th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a Director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, and (iii) with respect to nominations, a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and such beneficial owner and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by such stockholder; and (d) the names and addresses of any other stockholders or beneficial
 
owners known to be supporting such nomination or business by the proposing stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made.
(B)        Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which Directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this By-Law, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more Directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of Section 8 of this Article II shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the last to occur of (a) the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such special meeting or (b) the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(C)        General. (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law shall be eligible to serve as Directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law. Except as otherwise provided by Delaware law, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this By-Law, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
(2)        For purposes of this By-Law, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3)        Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-Law. Nothing in this By-Law shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect Directors under specified circumstances.
 
The number of Directors which shall constitute the whole Board shall be fixed, from time to time, by resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors, but shall not be less than three persons. The number of Directors shall not be reduced so as to shorten the term of any Director at the time in office.
At each annual meeting of stockholders, all Directors shall be elected for terms of one year, and except as hereinafter provided, each Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting or until his or
 
her successor shall have been elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier retirement, death, resignation or removal. Directors need not be residents of Delaware.
 
The Board of Directors shall by majority vote designate from time to time from among its members a Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors of the Corporation. He or she shall have and perform such duties as are prescribed by the By-Laws and by the Board of Directors. The position of Chairman of the Board is a Board position, provided however, the position of Chairman of the Board may be held by a person who is also an officer of the Corporation.
The Board of Directors may by majority vote designate from time to time from among its members one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board. A Vice Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors of the Corporation which the Chairman of the Board shall be unable to attend. He or she shall assist the Chairman of the Board in the exercise of his or her duties and shall have and perform such duties as are prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors. In the event of the death or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board, he or she shall perform all the duties of the Chairman of the Board until the next annual meeting of the stockholders or until the Board of Directors shall have sooner elected a successor Chairman of the Board. The position of Vice Chairman of the Board is a Board position, provided however, that the position of Vice Chairman of the Board may be held by a person who is also an officer of the Corporation.
In the absence of the Chairman of Board and Vice Chairman of the Board or in case of their inability to act, the Independent Lead Director, if at the time a Director of the Corporation has been designated by the Board of Directors as such, shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of such office and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. If at any Board of Directors meeting none of such persons is present or able to act, the Board of Directors shall select one of its members as acting chair of the meeting or portion thereof.
 
Any Director may resign at any time. Such resignation shall be made in writing, and shall take effect at the time of its receipt by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Secretary or at such other time as may be specified therein. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
 
If the office of any Director becomes vacant, the remaining Directors in office, though less than a quorum, by a majority vote, may appoint any qualified person to fill such vacancy, who shall hold office until the next annual meeting or until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier retirement, death, resignation or removal.
 
Any Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors considered for this purpose as one class cast at a meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose.
 
The Board of Directors shall exercise all the powers of the Corporation except such as are by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or by these By-Laws conferred upon or reserved to the stockholders.
 
A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately before or after the annual meeting of stockholders. Additional regular meetings of the Directors may be held without notice at such places and times as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Directors.
Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, the President, or by the Secretary on the written request of a majority of the Board of Directors on at least two days' notice to each Director and shall be held at such place or places as may be determined by the Directors, or as shall be stated in the call of the meeting.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
 
A majority of the Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum is obtained, and no further notice thereof need be given other than by announcement at the meeting which shall be so adjourned. Notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough Directors to leave less than a quorum, the Directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment.
 
Directors shall not receive any stated salary for their services as Directors or as members of committees, except that by resolution of the Board of Directors, retainer fees, meeting fees, and expenses of attendance at meetings may be authorized. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent or otherwise, and receiving compensation therefor.
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting, if prior to such action a written consent thereto is signed by all members of the Board of Directors, or of such committee as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
 
A majority of the whole Board of Directors shall have the authority to designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the Directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board or in these By-Laws, shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; provided, however, that in the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not the member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
 
The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, who may be designated Senior Executive Vice Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, and Assistant Vice Presidents, a Secretary, one or more Assistant Secretaries, a Chief Financial Officer, a Controller, an Auditor and such other officers as may be deemed appropriate. All such officers shall be appointed annually by the Board of Directors to serve for a term of one year and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified or until such officer's earlier death, resignation, retirement, or removal, except that the Board of Directors may delegate the authority to appoint officers holding the position of Senior Executive Vice President and below in accordance with procedures established or modified by the Board of Directors from time to time. None of the officers of the Corporation need be Directors. More than one office may be held by the same person.
 
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer is the most senior officer of the Corporation, and shall be vested with authority to act for the Corporation in all matters and shall have general supervision of the Corporation and of its business affairs, including authority over the detailed operations of the Corporation and over its personnel, with full power and authority during intervals between sessions of the Board of the Directors to do and perform in the name of the Corporation all acts and deeds necessary or proper, in his or her opinion, to be done and performed and to execute for and in the name of the Corporation all instruments, agreements, and deeds which may be authorized to be executed on behalf of the Corporation or which may be required by law. The Chief Executive Officer may, but need not, also hold the office of President.
 
The President shall perform such duties as are prescribed by the By-Laws, by the Board of Directors, and by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
The Vice Presidents shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, have and may exercise the authority vested in them in all proper matters, including authority over the detailed operations of the Corporation and over its personnel.
 
The Chief Financial Officer or his designee shall have custody of all funds of the Corporation. He or his designee shall have and perform such duties as are incident to the office of Chief Financial Officer and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
 
The Secretary shall keep minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors unless otherwise directed by those bodies. He shall have custody of the corporate seal, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall affix the same to all instruments or papers requiring the seal of the Corporation. The Secretary, or in his absence, any Assistant Secretary, shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the Corporation. He shall perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, and shall do and perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
 
The Controller shall, under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or a more senior officer, have general supervision and authority over all reports required of the Corporation by law or by any public body or officer or regulatory authority pertaining to the condition of the Corporation and its assets and liabilities. The Controller shall have general supervision of the books and accounts of the Corporation and its methods and systems of recording and keeping accounts of its business transactions and of its assets and liabilities. The Controller shall be responsible for preparing statements showing the financial condition of the Corporation and shall furnish such reports and financial records as may be required of him or her by the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or other more senior officer.
 
The Auditor shall have general supervision of the auditing of the books and accounts of the Corporation, and shall continuously and from time to time check and verify the Corporation's transactions, its assets and liabilities, and the accounts and doings of the officers, agents and employees of the Corporation with respect thereto. The Auditor shall be directly accountable to and under the jurisdiction of the Board of Directors and, if applicable, its designated committee, acting independently of all officers, agents and employees of the Corporation. The Auditor shall render reports covering matters in his or her charge regularly and upon request to the Board and, if applicable, its designated committee.
 
The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it may deem advisable, who shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
There shall be an officers' committee of the Corporation (the "Executive Council"), which shall consist of such officers of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as may be appointed to sit thereon by the Chief Executive Officer. The chairman of the committee shall be the Chief Executive Officer, and the committee shall meet at the chairman's call.
The Executive Council shall develop, publish, and implement policies and procedures for the operation of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates. The Board of Directors shall have the right to amend or revoke actions of the Executive Council. The Executive Council may amend, make additions to, or deletions from, or revoke such policies and procedures, to the extent the committee deems such actions to be necessary and desirable. In addition to the duties prescribed above, the Executive Council shall have such other and further duties and responsibilities as may from time to time be assigned to it by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
The shares of stock in the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the Corporation's stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate theretofore issued until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates, and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer or Controller, and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation, representing the number of shares of stock registered in certificate form owned by such holder. Any or all of the signatures may be facsimiles. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
The Board of Directors may order a new certificate or certificates of stock to be issued in the place of any certificate or certificates of the Corporation alleged to have been lost or destroyed, but in every such case the owner of the lost certificate or certificates shall first cause to be given to the Corporation or its authorized agent a bond in such sum as said Board may direct, as indemnity against any loss that the Corporation may incur by reason of such replacement of the lost certificate or certificates; but the Board of Directors may, at their discretion refuse to replace any lost certificate of stock save upon the order of some court having jurisdiction in such matter and may cause such legend to be inscribed on the new certificate or certificates as in the Board's discretion may be necessary to prevent loss to the Corporation.
 
The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable only upon its books, and in the case of certificated shares of stock, by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, and upon the surrender of the certificate therefore; or, in the case of uncertificated shares of stock, upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, and compliance with appropriate procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form. In the case of certificated shares, upon such transfer the old certificates shall be surrendered to the Corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books, and ledgers, or to the authorized agent of the Corporation, by whom they shall be canceled, and new certificates shall thereupon be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be expressed in the entry of the transfer.
The Corporation may decline to register on its stock books transfers of stock standing in the name of infants, unless (a) the law of the state of which the infant is a resident relieves the Corporation of all liability therefor in case the infant or anyone acting for him thereafter elects to rescind such transfer, or (b) a court having jurisdiction of the infant and the subject matter enters a valid decree authorizing such transfer.
 
No fractional part of a share of stock shall ever be issued by this Corporation.
 
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may, out of funds legally available therefore at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Before declaring any dividend there may be set apart out of any fund of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as the Directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the Directors shall deem conducive to the interests of the Corporation.
The Corporation may decline to pay cash dividends to infant stockholders except where full and valid release may be granted by the infant or under a decree of court of competent jurisdiction.
 
The corporate seal shall consist of two concentric circles between which shall be "REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION DELAWARE" with a representation of the Corporate Logogram in the center.
 
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation, and in such manner as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
Whenever any notice is required by these By-Laws to be given, personal notice is not meant unless expressly so stated, and any notice so required shall be deemed to be sufficient if given by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or by telegram, teletype, facsimile transmission or other form of wire, wireless, or other electronic communication or by private carrier addressed to the person entitled thereto at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, and such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of such mailing. Stockholders not entitled to vote shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meetings except as otherwise provided by statute.
Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given under the provisions of any law, or under the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
 
(A)        The Corporation shall indemnify, in accordance with and to the fullest extent permitted by law, any person made or threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a Director, Advisory Director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Corporation or any constituent corporation absorbed in a consolidation or merger, or serves as such with another corporation, or with a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise at the request of the Corporation or any such constituent corporation.
(B)        The indemnification provided by this Section 11 shall not be deemed exclusive of and shall be in addition to any other rights (whether created prior or subsequent to the adoption of these By-Laws) to which those indemnified may be entitled under any statute, rule of law, certificate of incorporation, by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in their official capacity and as to action in another capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a Director, employee or agent of the Corporation, and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
(C)        By action of the Board of Directors notwithstanding any interest of the Directors in such action, the Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance in such amounts as the Board of Directors deems appropriate on behalf of any person who is or was a Director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a Director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether
 
or not the Corporation shall have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Section 11.
 
The Chief Executive Officer, or the President, or any Senior Executive Vice President, or any Executive Vice President or any Senior Vice President is authorized, in his or her discretion, to do and perform any and all corporate and official acts in carrying on the business of the Corporation, including, but not limited to, the authority to make, execute, acknowledge, accept, and deliver any and all deeds, mortgages, releases, bills of sale, assignments, transfers, leases (as lessor or lessee), powers of attorney or of substitution, proxies to vote stock or any other instrument in writing that may be necessary in the purchase, sale, lease, assignment, transfer, discount, management or handling in any way of any property of any description held, controlled, or used by the Corporation or to be held, controlled, or used by the Corporation and including the authority from time to time to open bank accounts with the Corporation's subsidiary bank or any other institution, to borrow money in such amounts for such lengths of time, at such rates of interest and upon such terms and conditions as any said officer may deem proper and to evidence the indebtedness thereby created by executing and delivering in the name of the Corporation promissory notes or other appropriate evidences of indebtedness, and to guarantee the obligations of any subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation. The enumeration herein of particular powers shall not restrict in any way the general powers and authority of said officers.
By way of example and not limitation, such officers of the Corporation are authorized to execute, accept, deliver, and issue, on behalf of the Corporation and as binding obligations of Corporation, such agreements and instruments as may be within the officer's area of responsibility, including, as applicable, agreements and related documents (such as schedules, confirmations, transfers, assignments, acknowledgments, and other documents) relating to derivative transactions, loan or letter of credit transactions, syndications, participations, trades, purchase and sale or discount transactions, transfers and assignments, servicing and sub-servicing agreements, vendor agreements, securitizations, and transactions of whatever kind or description arising in the conduct of the Corporation's business.
The authority to execute and deliver documents, instruments, and agreements may be limited by resolution of the Board of Directors, by a committee of the Board, by the Chief Executive Officer, or by the President, by reference to subject matter, category, amount, geographical location, or any other criteria, and may be made subject to such policies, procedures, and levels of approval as may be adopted or amended from time to time.
 
Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Executive Vice President or above, the Controller, the Corporation's General Counsel, and any other officer as may be designated by the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to attend, and to act and to vote, and to execute a proxy or proxies empowering others to attend, and to act and to vote, at any meetings of security holders of any of the corporations in which the Corporation may hold securities and, at such meetings, such officer shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such securities which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have possessed and exercised, if present.
 
These By-Laws may be amended, altered or repealed and By-Laws may be adopted (A) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors or (B) by the stockholders at any annual meeting of the stockholders, or at any special meeting thereof if notice of the proposed alteration or repeal or By-Law or By-Laws to be adopted is contained in the notice of such special meeting, by the affirmative vote of seventy-five percent (75%) of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at the meeting.
Notwithstanding the above, these By-Laws may be amended, altered or repealed and By-Laws may be adopted to reestablish a classified Board of Directors by the stockholders at any annual meeting of the stockholders, or at any special meeting thereof if notice of the proposed alteration or repeal or By-Law or By-Laws to be adopted with respect to reclassifying the board is contained in the notice of such special meeting, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at the meeting.
 


