FILE:RF/RF-8K-20100519164155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On May 13, 2010, the Board of Directors ("Board") of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") appointed Carolyn H. Byrd to the Regions' Board, effective immediately. The appointment of Ms. Byrd increases the size of Regions' Board to thirteen (13) members. Ms. Byrd is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of GlobalTech Financial, LLC and has served in that capacity since 2000. Ms. Byrd has been assigned to the Audit and Risk Committees of the Board. She has no relationships or transactions with Regions which are required to be disclosed, nor are there any arrangements or understandings with other persons pursuant to which she was selected as a Director. On May 19, 2010 (the "grant date"), Ms. Byrd was awarded a grant of restricted stock under the Regions Financial Corporation 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan, pursuant to Regions' compensation program for Directors that applies uniformly to all non-employee Directors. The number of shares of restricted stock granted is that number of shares having a fair market value of $60,000, based on the reported closing price of Regions common stock on the grant date. The restricted stock is subject to a continued service requirement, and the restrictions lapse on the third anniversary of the grant date, or possibly earlier in the case of Ms. Byrd's death or disability or upon termination without cause following a change in control of Regions. Ms. Byrd was also appointed a Director of Regions Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions.
For additional information, see the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 19, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Carolyn H. Byrd, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of GlobalTech Financial, LLC, has been elected to the Board of Directors of Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF).
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., May 13, 2010
"Carolyn Byrd is a proven leader with an extremely strong background in finance, and I am proud to have her join our board," said Earnest Deavenport, Regions' chairman. "Throughout her career she has demonstrated an expertise in finance, strong management skills and the ability to lead and grow in difficult times."
Ms. Byrd has led GlobalTech Financial since 2000 and previously was the president of Coca-Cola Financial Corporation. During her 23-year career with Coca-Cola she held a variety of senior positions including chief of internal audits and manager of corporate and U.S. treasury services. She began her career in corporate lending at Citibank. She holds a bachelor's degree in economics and business administration from Fisk University and a master's degree in finance from the University of Chicago.
Ms. Byrd also serves on the boards of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and AFC Enterprises, Inc. She is active in community affairs in Atlanta and is a participant in The Links, Incorporated, a national nonprofit organization of African-American professional women.
About Regions
Regions Financial Corporation, with $137 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 100 Index and one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,800 banking offices and 2,200 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 300 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at .
www.regions.com
 
 
 


