FILE:RF/RF-8K-20100525165343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For additional information, see the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 25, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 Eric C. Fast, President and Chief Executive Officer of Crane Co., has been elected to the Board of Directors of Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF).
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., May 25, 2010
"Eric Fast started his career as a banker and has extensive experience in investment banking and finance, but he also has a broad view of business and a commitment to innovation and the customer," said Earnest Deavenport, Regions' chairman. "His understanding of strategy, his drive to focus on the customer and his history of instilling operational excellence are well-aligned with our strategic priorities and will further strengthen the leadership of our Board."
Mr. Fast joined Crane Co., a diversified manufacturer of highly engineered industrial products, in 1999 as President and Chief Operating Officer and was named President and CEO in 2001. Prior to joining Crane, he worked for Salomon Brothers and later Salomon Smith Barney, where he ultimately was co-head of Global Investment Banking and a member of the firm's Management Committee. He previously served as Treasurer of MacMillan Inc. and began his career as a commercial lending officer at Bank of New York. He holds a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and an MBA from New York University Graduate School of Business.
In addition to Crane, Mr. Fast serves on the boards of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and National Integrity Life Insurance Co.
About Regions
Regions Financial Corporation, with $137 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 100 Index and one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,800 banking offices and 2,200 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 300 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at .
www.regions.com
 
 
 


