FILE:RF/RF-8K-20111021060146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On October 19, 2011, the Board of Directors ("Board") of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") appointed John D. Johns to the Regions' Board, effective immediately. The appointment of Mr. Johns increases the size of Regions' Board to sixteen (16) members.
Mr. Johns is the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Protective Life Corporation ("Protective"), a Birmingham, Alabama-based company that provides financial services through the production, distribution and administration of insurance and investment products throughout the United States. There are no arrangements or understandings with other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a Director. On October 20, 2011, Mr. Johns was awarded a grant of 9,485 shares of restricted stock under the Regions Financial Corporation 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan, pursuant to Regions' compensation program for Directors that applies uniformly to all non-employee Directors. The restricted stock is subject to a continued service requirement and the restrictions lapse on the first anniversary of the grant date, or earlier in the case of Mr. Johns' death or disability or upon termination without cause following a change in control of Regions. Mr. Johns has been assigned to the Risk Committee and Compensation Committee of the Board. Mr. Johns was also appointed a Director of Regions Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
99.1    Press Release of Regions Financial Corporation dated October 20, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 21, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 John D. Johns, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Protective Life Corporation, has been elected to the Board of Directors of Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF).
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., October 20, 2011
"Johnny is a proven leader with deep experience in financial services that will be of great benefit to our Board," said Earnest Deavenport, Regions' chairman. "His tremendous experience and accomplishments in financial services are matched only by his tireless commitment to the community as a whole."
"We are very pleased to have a business and community leader of Johnny's stature join our Board," said Grayson Hall, Regions' president and CEO. "In particular, his considerable experience in the insurance business will bring a wealth of expertise and insight from the broader financial services industry that will be of great benefit to our shareholders."
Mr. Johns joined Protective Life Corporation in 1993 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and was promoted to Chairman, President and CEO in 2003. Prior to joining Protective Life, he was with Sonat Inc., as Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Johns was a founding partner of the law firm Maynard Cooper & Gale and was an Associate and Partner of the law firm Cabaniss, Johnston, Gardner, Dumas & O'Neal. He holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Alabama, and a Master of Business Administration and a Juris Doctorate degree from Harvard University.
An active leader in the community, Mr. Johns currently serves on a wide variety of local, statewide and national organizations and was recently appointed co-chair of the Tornado Recovery Action Council of Alabama. He is a member of the Executive Committee of the Birmingham Business Alliance, and a Board member of the Economic Development Partnership of Alabama, the American Council of Life Insurers and The Financial Services Roundtable, as well a past Board member and Chairman of the Business Council of Alabama. Mr. Johns also serves on the Boards of Alabama Power Company and Genuine Parts Company.
About Regions
Regions Financial Corporation, with $131 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and
 
 
 
 
 
commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,800 banking offices and over 2,100 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 300 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at
www.regions.com.


