FILE:RF/RF-8K-20110318170506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 18, 2011, Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release regarding the results of the Federal Reserve's Comprehensive Capital Analysis Review. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 18, 2011

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.  (BUSINESS WIRE)  March 18, 2011  Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF) has received the results from the Federal Reserve's recently concluded Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR).
As part of the CCAR process, Regions did not propose any immediate capital action. The company's position of repaying the government's TARP investment in a prudent manner, on shareholder-friendly terms, remains unchanged. The company continues to believe a return to sustainable profitability and continuing improvement in asset quality are key conditions that will enable repayment of TARP.
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation, with $132 billion in assets, is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,800 banking offices and 2,200 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 300 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at
www.regions.com.


