FILE:RF/RF-8K-20110622165835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
On June 22, 2011, Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") announced that its subsidiaries Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("Morgan Keegan") and Morgan Asset Management, Inc. ("Morgan Asset Management") entered into settlements with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, South Carolina and Tennessee regarding previously disclosed matters relating to certain Morgan Keegan closed-end and mutual funds (the "Funds") and alleging violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management in connection with the Funds. Morgan Asset Management divested its closed-end and mutual fund business in 2008.
As part of the settlements, Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management agreed to (i) pay $210 million ($200 million of which will be placed into two Fair Funds for the benefit of investors in the Funds and up to $10 million of which will be paid to participating states as a penalty), (ii) implement certain measures relating to valuation of securities for registered investment companies, (iii) a prohibition against creating, offering or selling a proprietary fund marketed and sold to investors (other than certain institutional and qualified investors) for a period of two years, and (iv) the imposition of certain injunctive relief. Additional state securities regulators are eligible to join the settlement and receive a share of the $10 million. The full amount of these settlements had been previously reserved for in anticipation of resolution of these matters.
The foregoing summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the agreements, copies of which are attached as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.7, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The form of settlement agreement for other states is attached as Exhibit 10.8 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release announcing the settlements is also attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 8  Other Events
 
Regions also announced in the attached press release that it has retained Goldman, Sachs & Co. to explore strategic alternatives with regard to Morgan Keegan. This review does not include Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust (a division of Regions Bank).
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 22, 2011

Exhibit 10.1
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 64720 / June 22, 2011
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3218 / June 22, 2011
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 29704 / June 22, 2011
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 3296 / June 22, 2011
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-13847
 
On April 10, 2010, the Commission instituted public administrative and cease -and-desist proceedings pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act"), Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"), and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 ("Investment Company Act") against Morgan Asset Management, Inc. ("Morgan Asset"); Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("Morgan Keegan");
James C. Kelsoe, Jr. ("Kelsoe"); and Joseph Thompson Weller, CPA ("Weller"); pursuant to Section 15(b)(4) of the Exchange Act against Morgan Keegan; pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act against Morgan Asset, Kelsoe and Weller; pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 ("Advisers Act") against Morgan Asset and Morgan Keegan; pursuant to Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act against Kelsoe and Weller; and pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice against Weller. Respondents Morgan Asset, Morgan Keegan, Kelsoe and Weller (collectively "Respondents") have submitted an Offer of Settlement which the Commission has determined to accept.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Sections 4C and 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and Imposing Suspension Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice ("Order"), as set forth below.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent's Offer, the Commission finds
1
that,
 
1. , incorporated in Tennessee on April 10, 1986, has been an investment adviser registered with the Commission at all relevant times. Morgan Asset's principal place of business is in Birmingham, Alabama. Morgan Asset is a wholly-owned subsidiary of MK Holding, Inc., which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation.
Morgan Asset
2. , incorporated in Tennessee on June 27, 1969, has been registered with the Commission as a broker-dealer at all relevant times and as an investment adviser since July 27, 1992. During the relevant time period, Morgan Keegan served as the principal
Morgan Keegan
 
 
 
underwriter and sole distributor of shares of the open-end Funds described in paragraph 5, below. Morgan Keegan's principal place of business is in Memphis, Tennessee.
3. , 49 years of age, is a resident of Memphis, Tennessee. During 2007, Kelsoe was the senior portfolio manager for Morgan Asset. Kelsoe is a Chartered Financial Analyst and previously held Series 7 and 65 licenses. Kelsoe was associated with Morgan Keegan at all relevant times, and was a registered representative of the firm from August 1994 through November 2008.
Kelsoe
4. , 46 years of age, is a resident of Memphis, Tennessee. Weller has been employed by Morgan Keegan since 1992. During the relevant period, he was Morgan Keegan's Controller and the head of its Fund Accounting Department reported to him. He holds Series 7, 27, and 66 licenses and is a CPA who was previously licensed in the State of Tennessee. That license is currently lapsed. Since at least January 1, 1993, Weller has been associated with the investment adviser arm of Morgan Keegan. Additionally, from at least December 1997 through the present, Weller has been a registered representative associated with the broker-dealer arm of Morgan Keegan.
Weller
 
5. Helios Select Fund, Inc., formerly known as Morgan Keegan Select Fund, Inc. ("Select Fund"), incorporated in Maryland on October 27, 1998, has been an investment company registered with the Commission since its inception. In 2007, the Select Fund contained three open-end portfolios: the Select High Income portfolio, the Select Intermediate Bond portfolio, and the Select Short Term Bond portfolio.
6. Helios High Income Fund, Inc., formerly known as RMK High Income Fund, Inc., a closed-end fund incorporated in Maryland on April 16, 2003, has been an investment company registered with the Commission since its inception.
7. Helios Multi-Sector High Income Fund, Inc., formerly known as RMK Multi-Sector High Income Fund, Inc., a closed-end fund incorporated in Maryland on November 14, 2005, has been an investment company registered with the Commission since its inception.
8. Helios Strategic Income Fund, Inc., formerly known as RMK Strategic Income Fund, Inc., a closed-end fund incorporated in Maryland on January 16, 2004, has been an investment company registered with the Commission since its inception.
9. Helios Advantage Income Fund, Inc., formerly known as RMK Advantage Income Fund, Inc., a closed-end fund incorporated September 7, 2004, has been an investment company registered with the Commission since its inception.
 
10. Morgan Asset, through Kelsoe, as Portfolio Manager, managed the Helios Select Fund, Inc., the Helios High Income Fund, Inc., the Helios Multi-Sector High Income Fund, Inc., the Helios Strategic Income Fund, Inc., and the Helios Advantage Income Fund, Inc. (collectively, the "Funds") from at least November 2004 through July 29, 2008.
11. Respondent Morgan Keegan, a registered broker-dealer and registered investment adviser, was the principal underwriter and distributor of shares of the open-ended Funds. Each of the Funds' Boards of Directors was responsible for pricing the Funds' securities in accordance with the Funds' valuation policies and procedures ("valuation procedures"). Although the Funds' prospectuses stated that Morgan Asset would price the securities, each Fund's Board of Directors delegated the pricing responsibility to Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegan priced each Fund's securities and calculated the Fund's daily net asset value
2
("NAV") through its Fund Accounting Department ("Fund Accounting"). Weller was an officer and treasurer of the Funds. Weller, Morgan Keegan's Controller, along with other Morgan Keegan personnel, staffed a "Valuation Committee" that oversaw Fund Accounting's processes and evaluated the prices assigned to securities. Morgan Keegan and Weller failed to adequately fulfill Morgan Keegan's responsibilities, as delegated to it by the Funds' Boards of Directors, to price the Funds' securities in accordance with their valuation policies and procedures regarding valuation. For example, at various times from January 2007 through July 2007, Fund Accounting accepted unsubstantiated "price adjustments," submitted by Kelsoe, that inaccurately inflated the prices of certain securities, contrary to the Funds' valuation procedures. Fund Accounting failed to document justifications for such pricing adjustments.
12. The Funds' valuation policies and procedures required the comparison of fair values to prices provided by other sources. Pursuant to that requirement, Fund Accounting periodically obtained broker-dealer price confirmations for certain fair valued securities. Unbeknownst to Fund Accounting and the Funds' independent auditor ("Independent Auditor"), the Portfolio Manager, Kelsoe, actively screened and influenced a broker-dealer to change the price confirmations that Fund Accounting and the Independent Auditor obtained from the broker-dealer. Kelsoe also failed to advise Fund Accounting or the Funds' Boards of Directors when he received information indicating that the Funds' prices for certain securities should be reduced.
 
 
 
13. Each of the Funds held, in varying amounts, securities backed by subprime mortgages, and the market for such securities deteriorated in the first half of 2007. Morgan Keegan utilized practices which were not reasonably designed to determine that the Funds' NAVs were accurate. Morgan Asset, through Kelsoe, engaged in actions that forestalled declines in the NAVs of the Funds that would have occurred as a result of the deteriorating market, absent his intervention.
14. Many of the securities that were held by the Funds and backed by subprime mortgages lacked readily available market quotations and, as a result, were required by the Investment Company Act to be priced by the Funds' Boards of Directors, using "fair value" methods. Under Section 2(a)(41)(B) of the Investment Company Act, the Funds were required to use market values for portfolio securities with readily available market quotations and use fair value for all other portfolio assets, as determined in good faith by the board of directors. The fair value of securities for which market quotations are not readily available is the price the Funds would reasonably expect to receive on a current sale of the securities.
3
15. The Funds adopted valuation procedures for pricing the Funds' portfolio securities and assigned the task of following those procedures to Morgan Keegan. The Funds' valuation procedures for fair-valued securities mandated that such securities should be valued in "good faith" by the Valuation Committee, considering a series of general and specific factors including, among others, "fundamental analytical data relating to the investment," "an evaluation of the forces which influence the market in which the securities are purchased or sold" and "events affecting the security." The procedures required the Valuation Committee to maintain a written report "documenting the manner in which the fair value of a security was determined and the accuracy of the valuation made based on the next reliable public price quotation for that security." The procedures also required that values assigned to securities be periodically validated through, among other means, broker-dealer price confirmations. Fund Accounting also used broker-dealer price confirmations to set current values. The procedures specified that prices obtained from a broker-dealer could only be overridden when there was "a reasonable basis to believe that the price provided [did] not accurately reflect the fair value of the portfolio security." Whenever a price was overridden, the procedures mandated the basis for overriding the price to be "documented and provided to the Valuation Committee for its review."
16. In filings with the Commission, the Funds stated that the fair value of securities would be determined by Morgan Asset's Valuation Committee using procedures adopted by the Funds' board of directors. In fact, the responsibility was delegated to Morgan Keegan, which primarily staffed the Valuation Committee. Morgan Keegan and the Valuation Committee did not
 
 
reasonably satisfy their responsibilities under the Funds' procedures in several ways. Among other things: (i) the Valuation Committee left pricing decisions to lower level employees in Fund Accounting who did not have the training or qualifications to make fair value pricing determinations; (ii) Fund Accounting personnel relied on Kelsoe's "price adjustments" to determine the prices assigned to portfolio assets, without obtaining a reasonable basis for or documentation supporting the price adjustments or applying the factors set forth in the procedures; (iii) Fund Accounting personnel gave Kelsoe discretion beyond the parameters of the valuation procedures in validating the prices of portfolio securities by allowing him to determine which dealer price confirmations to use and which to ignore, without obtaining documentation to support his adjustments; and (iv) the Valuation Committee and Fund Accounting did not ensure that the fair value prices assigned to many of the portfolio securities were periodically re-evaluated, allowing them to be carried at stale values for months at a time.
17. Morgan Asset adopted its own procedures to determine the actual fair value to assign to portfolio securities and to "validate" those values "periodically." Among other things, those procedures provided that "[q]uarterly reports listing all securities held by the Funds that were fair valued during the quarter under review, along with explanatory notes for the fair values assigned to the securities, shall be presented to the Board for its review." Morgan Asset failed to fully implement this provision of its pricing policy.
18. At various times between January 2007 and July 2007, Kelsoe had his assistant send "price adjustments" to Fund Accounting. The adjustments were communications by Kelsoe to Fund Accounting concerning the values of specific portfolio securities. In many instances, these adjustments were arbitrary and did not reflect fair value. The price adjustments were routinely entered upon receipt by the staff accountant into a spreadsheet used to calculate the NAVs of the Funds.
19. Fund Accounting did not generally request, and Kelsoe did not generally supply, supporting documentation for his price adjustments. Fund Accounting and the Funds did not record which securities had been assigned values by Kelsoe.
20. As part of the Funds' valuation procedures, Fund Accounting sometimes requested third party broker-dealer price confirmations as a means to validate the values it had assigned to the Funds' fair valued securities. The Funds' Independent Auditor used similar requests for third party broker-dealer price confirmations as part of its annual year-end audits of the Funds. Fund Accounting or the Independent Auditor would periodically send such requests to broker-dealers asking them to provide price confirmations for various portfolio securities.
21. During the period from January through July 2007, when month-end dealer price confirmations were received by Fund Accounting, an employee of Fund Accounting performed a review to estimate whether they contained any securities prices that varied from current portfolio values by more than five percent. If so, then Kelsoe determined whether the current values should be maintained or a new valuewhich may or may not have been the price given by the broker-dealershould be assigned to the security. Thus, Fund Accounting generally allowed Kelsoe to
 
determine whether broker-dealer price confirmations were used or ignored. In some instances, when price confirmations were received that were substantially lower than current portfolio values, Fund Accounting personnel, acting at the direction of Kelsoe, lowered values of bonds over a period of days, in a series of pre-planned reductions to values at or closer to, but still above, the price confirmations. As a result, during the interim days, Fund Accounting did not price those bonds at their current fair value.
22. During the period from January through July 2007, Fund Accounting failed to record which bond values were not adjusted in response to dealer price confirmations at Kelsoe's direction.
23. The head of Fund Accounting reported to Weller, and Weller was a member of the Valuation Committee. He knew, or was reckless in not knowing, of the deficiencies in the implementation of the valuation procedures set forth above, and failed to remedy them or otherwise make sure fair-valued securities were accurately priced and the Funds' NAVs were accurately calculated. During the period from January through July 2007, Weller was aware that: (i) the Valuation Committee did not adequately supervise Fund Accounting's application of the valuation factors; (ii) Kelsoe was supplying fair value price adjustments for specific securities to Fund Accounting but the members of the Valuation Committee did not generally know which securities Kelsoe supplied fair values for or what those fair values were, and did not generally receive supporting documentation for those values; and (iii) the only other pricing test regularly applied by the Valuation Committee was a "look back" test, which compared the sales price of any security sold by a Fund to the valuation of that security used in the NAV calculation for the five business days preceding the sale. The test only covered securities after they were sold; thus, at any given time, the Valuation Committee never knew how many securities' prices could ultimately be validated by it. Weller nevertheless signed the Funds' annual and semi-annual financial reports on Forms N-CSR, filed with the Commission, including certifications pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
24. During the period from January 2007 through July 2007, Morgan Keegan, acting through Weller and Fund Accounting, failed to employ reasonable procedures to price the Funds' portfolio securities and, as a result of that failure, did not calculate current NAVs for the Funds. Despite these failures, Morgan Keegan published daily NAVs of the Funds which it could not know were accurate and, as distributor of the open-end portfolios, sold and redeemed shares to investors based on those NAVs.
25. On various dates from January 2007 through July 2007, Morgan Asset, through Kelsoe, screened and influenced the price confirmations obtained from at least one broker-dealer ("the Submitting Firm"). Among other things, the Submitting Firm was induced to provide interim price confirmations that were lower than the values at which the Funds were valuing certain bonds, but higher than the initial confirmations that the Submitting Firm had intended to provide. The interim price confirmations enabled the Funds to avoid marking down the value of securities to reflect current fair value. Kelsoe was aware that use of the interim price confirmations was inconsistent with the valuation procedures and did not reflect fair value, that the Submitting Firm
 
would be providing lower price confirmations in response to future pricing validation requests, and that the Funds would be required to further mark down the value of the securities to reflect their already diminished value, but that information was not disclosed to Fund Accounting, the Funds' Boards of Directors or the Independent Auditor. In some instances, even after causing the Submitting Firm to increase its price confirmations, Kelsoe subsequently provided price adjustments to Fund Accounting that were higher than even the Submitting Firm's increased price confirmations. These adjustments were not consistent with the Funds' procedures. In other instances, the Submitting Firm was induced to not provide price confirmations to Fund Accounting (or, depending on the period, to the Independent Auditor), where those price confirmations would have been significantly lower than the Funds' current valuations of the relevant bonds. Fund Accounting and the Funds' Boards were not advised that the Submitting Firm had proposed price confirmations which were lower than the current valuations recorded by the Funds, and that the Submitting Firm had refrained from submitting price confirmations to Fund Accounting or had submitted price confirmations at higher prices than it had originally planned.
26. In each of the Funds' annual and semi-annual reports filed with the Commission on Forms N-CSR during the relevant period (including, among others, the Annual Report for the Morgan Keegan Select Fund, Inc. for the year-ended June 30, 2007 filed with the Commission on October 4, 2007), Kelsoe included a signed letter to investors reporting on the Funds' performance "based on net asset value." In fact, the performance reported was materially misstated. Untrue statements of material fact concerning the Funds' performance were made in the Funds' annual and semi-annual reports filed with the Commission on Forms N-CSR. Morgan Asset, through Kelsoe, also provided a quarterly valuation packet reflecting inflated prices for certain securities to the Funds' Boards, failed to disclose to the Funds' Boards information indicating that the Funds' NAVs were inflated and that broker-dealer price confirmations were being screened and caused to be altered, and provided Fund Accounting with unsubstantiated price adjustments. In addition, the prospectuses incorrectly described Morgan Asset as responsible for fair valuation of the Funds' portfolios.
 
27. Investment advisers owe their clients, including investment company clients, a fiduciary duty. , 444 U.S.11, 17 (1979); 375 U.S. 180, 195-97 (1963). Misstatements or omissions of fact by an investment adviser, such as those made to the Funds' boards, violate an adviser's fiduciary duty and constitute fraud when they are material. Similarly, the failure to disclose to the Funds' boards that Morgan Asset and Morgan Keegan were not complying with stated valuation procedures constitutes fraud. In addition, the knowing or reckless failure to value securities, for which market quotations are not readily available, consistent with fair value requirements under the Investment Company Act and that materially affects a fund's NAV constitutes fraud Exch. Act. Rel.48409 (August 26, 2003). Section 206(1) of the Advisers Act makes it unlawful for an investment adviser to employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud any client or prospective client. Section 206(2) makes it unlawful for an investment adviser to engage in any transaction, practice or course of business that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective client. As a result of the conduct described above,
Transamerica Mortgage Advisers, Inc. v. Lewis
SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc.
. See, In re Piper Capital Management, Inc.,
 
Respondent Morgan Asset willfully violated, and Kelsoe willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of, Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
28. Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act prohibits fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative practices or courses of business by an investment adviser. Rule 206(4)-7 requires investment advisers to "[a]dopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation" of the Advisers Act and the rules thereunder by their supervised persons. An adviser's failure "to have adequate compliance policies and procedures in place will constitute a violation of our rules independent of any other securities law violation." , Advisers Act Release No. 2204, 68 F.R. 74714, 74715 (Dec. 24, 2003) ("Compliance Programs Release"). As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent Morgan Asset willfully violated, and Respondent Kelsoe willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of, Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder.
Compliance Programs of Investment Companies and Investment Advisers
29. Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act prohibits untrue statements of material fact or omissions to state facts necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in any registration statement, report or other document filed pursuant to the Investment Company Act or the keeping of which is required pursuant to Section 31(a) of the Investment Company Act. Any person who makes a material misrepresentation concerning a Fund's performance in the Fund's annual and semi-annual reports filed with the Commission, or in the records required to be maintained by the Fund, or submits inflated prices to be included in the Fund's NAV calculations and the records forming the basis for the Fund's financial statements, violates Section 34(b). As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents Morgan Asset and Kelsoe willfully violated, and Respondent Morgan Keegan willfully aided, abetted, and caused violations of, Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act.
30. Rule 22c-1 under the Investment Company Act prohibits the sale or redemption of shares in a registered investment company "except at a price based on the current net asset value of such security which is next computed after receipt of a tender of such security for redemption or of an order to purchase or sell such security." For an NAV to be deemed current, Section 2(a)(41) of the Investment Company Act and Rule 2a-4 thereunder require portfolio securities for which market quotations are not readily available to be valued at fair value. As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent Morgan Keegan willfully violated, 4 and Respondents Morgan Asset, Kelsoe and Weller willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of, Rule 22c -1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act.
31. Rule 38a-1 under the Investment Company Act requires that a registered investment company adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws by the fund and to provide for oversight of compliance by the fund's investment adviser. Failure of a fund to have adequate compliance
 
 
 
policies and procedures in place and/or to implement them will constitute a violation of Rule 38a-1 independent of any other securities law violations. . Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset knowingly and substantially assisted the Funds' failure to implement fair valuation procedures, which resulted in prices that did not reflect current NAVs. Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset, Kelsoe and Weller thereby willfully aided and abetted and caused the Funds' violations of Rule 38a-1.
Compliance Programs Release
32. Respondent Morgan Keegan undertakes as follows:
A. Morgan Keegan shall not, for a period of three years from the date of the Order, be involved in, or responsible for, recommending to, or determining on behalf of, a registered investment company's board of directors or trustees or such company's valuation committee, the value of any portfolio security for which market quotations are not readily available.
B. If, after three years but within six years from the date of the Order, Morgan Keegan becomes involved in, or responsible for, determining or recommending determinations to a registered investment company's board of directors or trustees or valuation committee of the value of any portfolio security for which market quotations are not readily available and which are held by or on behalf of such registered investment company, Morgan Keegan shall promptly notify Commission counsel identified below or his successor and within 30 days of beginning such valuation activity, shall hire, at its expense, an Independent Consultant ("Consultant") not unacceptable to the Commission's staff, to review the valuations provided by Morgan Keegan to any registered investment company for the next two quarters following the beginning of such valuation activity, and make an Initial Report with recommendations thereafter on Morgan Keegan's policies, procedures and practices with regard to such valuations. The Initial Report shall describe the review performed and the conclusions reached, and will include any recommendations deemed necessary to make the policies, procedures, and practices adequate and consistent with GAAP and the Investment Company Act. Morgan Keegan shall cooperate fully with the Consultant and shall provide the Consultant with access to its files, books, records, and personnel as reasonably requested for the review. Morgan Keegan shall cause the review to begin no later than 60 days after beginning such valuation activity.
C. At the end of that review, and in no event more than 200 days from after beginning such valuation activity, to require the Consultant to submit the report and recommendations to Morgan Keegan and to William P. Hicks of the Commission's Atlanta Regional Office or his successor.
D. Within 30 days of receipt of the Initial Report, Morgan Keegan shall in writing respond to the Initial Report. In such response, Morgan Keegan shall advise the Consultant and the Commission's staff of the recommendations from the Initial Report that it has determined to accept and the recommendations that it considers to be unduly burdensome. With respect to any
 
recommendation that Morgan Keegan deems unduly burdensome, Morgan Keegan may propose an alternative policy, procedure or system designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.
E. Morgan Keegan shall attempt in good faith to reach agreement with the Consultant within 60 days of the date of the receipt of the Initial Report with respect to any recommendation that Morgan Keegan deems unduly burdensome. If the Consultant and Morgan Keegan are unable to agree on an alternative proposal, Morgan Keegan shall abide by the recommendation of the Consultant.
F. Within 90 days of the date of the receipt of the Initial Report, Morgan Keegan shall, in writing, advise the Consultant and the Commission's staff of the recommendations and proposals that it is adopting.
G. No later than one year after the date of the Consultant's Initial Report, Morgan Keegan shall cause the Consultant to conduct a follow-up review of Morgan Keegan's efforts to implement the recommendations contained in the Initial Report, and Morgan Keegan shall cause the Consultant to submit a Final Report to the Commission's staff. The Final Report shall set forth the details of Morgan Keegan's efforts to implement the recommendations contained in the Initial Report, and shall state whether Morgan Keegan has fully complied with the recommendations in the Initial Report.
H. Morgan Keegan shall cause the Consultant to complete the aforementioned review and submit a written Final Report to Morgan Keegan and to the Commission's staff within 400 days of the date of the Initial Report. The Final Report shall recite the efforts the Consultant undertook to review Morgan Keegan's policies, procedures, and practices; set forth the Consultant's conclusions and recommendations; and describe how Morgan Keegan is implementing those recommendations.
I. Morgan Keegan shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to adopt and implement all recommendations contained in the Consultant's Final Report.
J. To ensure the independence of the Consultant, Morgan Keegan: (a) shall not have the authority to terminate the Consultant without the prior written approval of the Commission's staff; (b) shall compensate the Consultant, and persons engaged to assist the Consultant, for services rendered pursuant to this Order at their reasonable and customary rates; (c) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client relationship with the Consultant and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other privilege or doctrine to prevent the Consultant from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the Commission staff; and (d) during the period of engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement, shall not enter into any employment, customer, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with the Consultant.
K. Morgan Keegan shall cause the Consultant to enter into an agreement that provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the engagement, the Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client,
 
auditing or other professional relationship with Morgan Keegan, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity. The agreement will also provide that the Consultant will require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the Atlanta Regional Office Commission staff, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, fiduciary, auditing or other professional relationship with Morgan Keegan, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Consultant may serve as a Consultant for Morgan Asset, pursuant to paragraph 34 below.
L. Morgan Keegan shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth above. The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. The certification and supporting material shall be submitted to William P. Hicks, Associate Regional Director in the Commission's Atlanta Regional Office, or any other member of the Commission's staff identified to receive the report by the staff, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the undertakings.
. Certification of Compliance by Respondent
33. Morgan Keegan further undertakes as follows:
. Morgan Keegan undertakes to cooperate fully with the Commission in any and all investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters described in this Order or involving, directly or indirectly, trading in or valuation of, the securities of the funds described in this Order. In connection with such cooperation, Morgan Keegan has undertaken:
Ongoing Cooperation by Morgan Keegan
To produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents and other information reasonably requested by the Commission's staff, or by the Distribution Agent to be appointed pursuant to the Order, with a custodian declaration as to their authenticity, if requested;
To use its best efforts to cause its employees and former employees to be interviewed by the Commission's staff, at the option of the staff with representatives of other government agencies present, at such times and places as the staff reasonably may direct. Live interviews on 72 hours notice at the Commission's Atlanta office or its headquarters office, or at any U.S or state government office in Memphis Tennessee, and telephone interviews on 48 hours notice, at the option of the staff, shall be deemed to be reasonable.
To use its best efforts to cause its employees to appear and testify truthfully and completely without service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations, depositions, hearings or trials as may be requested by the Commission's staff; and
 
In connection with any interviews of Morgan Keegan employees to be conducted pursuant to this undertaking, requests for such interviews may be provided by the Commission's staff to Morgan Keegan's General Counsel, or such other counsel that may be substituted by Morgan Keegan.
34. Respondent Morgan Asset undertakes as follows:
A. Morgan Asset shall not, for a period of three years from the date of the Order, be involved in, or responsible for, recommending to, or determining on behalf of, a registered investment company's board of directors or trustees or such company's valuation committee, the value of any portfolio security for which market quotations are not readily available.
B. If, after three years but within six years from the date of the Order, Morgan Asset becomes involved in, or responsible for, determining or recommending determinations to a registered investment company's board of directors or trustees or valuation committee of the value of any portfolio security for which market quotations are not readily available and which are held by or on behalf of such registered investment company, Morgan Asset shall promptly notify Commission counsel identified below or his successor and within 30 days of beginning such valuation activity, shall hire, at its expense, an Independent Consultant ("Consultant") not unacceptable to the Commission's staff, to review the valuations provided by Morgan Asset to any registered investment company for the next two quarters following the beginning of such valuation activity, and make an Initial Report with recommendations thereafter on Morgan Asset's policies, procedures and practices with regard to such valuations. The Initial Report shall describe the review performed and the conclusions reached, and will include any recommendations deemed necessary to make the policies, procedures, and practices adequate and consistent with GAAP and the Investment Company Act. Morgan Asset shall cooperate fully with the Consultant and shall provide the Consultant with access to its files, books, records, and personnel as reasonably requested for the review. Morgan Asset shall cause the review to begin no later than 60 days after beginning such valuation activity.
C. At the end of that review, and in no event more that 200 days from after beginning such valuation activity, to require the Consultant to submit the report and recommendations to Morgan Asset and to William P. Hicks of the Commission's Atlanta Regional Office or his successor.
D. Within 30 days of receipt of the Initial Report, Morgan Asset shall in writing respond to the Initial Report. In such response, Morgan Asset shall advise the Consultant and the Commission's staff of the recommendations from the Initial Report that it has determined to accept and the recommendations that it considers to be unduly burdensome. With respect to any recommendation that Morgan Asset deems unduly burdensome, Morgan Asset may propose an alternative policy, procedure or system designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.
E. Morgan Asset shall attempt in good faith to reach agreement with the Consultant within 60 days of the date of the receipt of the Initial Report with respect to any recommendation
 
that Morgan Asset deems unduly burdensome. If the Consultant and Morgan Asset are unable to agree on an alternative proposal, Morgan Asset shall abide by the recommendation of the Consultant.
F. Within 90 days of the date of the receipt of the Initial Report, Morgan Asset shall, in writing, advise the Consultant and the Commission's staff of the recommendations and proposals that it is adopting.
G. No later than one year after the date of the Consultant's Initial Report, Morgan Asset shall cause the Consultant to conduct a follow-up review of Morgan Asset's efforts to implement the recommendations contained in the Initial Report, and Morgan Asset shall cause the Consultant to submit a Final Report to the Commission's staff. The Final Report shall set forth the details of Morgan Asset's efforts to implement the recommendations contained in the Initial Report, and shall state whether Morgan Asset has fully complied with the recommendations in the Initial Report.
H. Morgan Asset shall cause the Consultant to complete the aforementioned review and submit a written Final Report to Morgan Asset and to the Commission's staff within 400 days of the date of the Initial Report. The Final Report shall recite the efforts the Consultant undertook to review Morgan Asset's policies, procedures, and practices; set forth the Consultant's conclusions and recommendations; and describe how Morgan Asset is implementing those recommendations.
I. Morgan Asset shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to adopt and implement all recommendations contained in the Consultant's Final Report.
J. To ensure the independence of the Consultant, Morgan Asset: (a) shall not have the authority to terminate the Consultant without the prior written approval of the Commission's staff; (b) shall compensate the Consultant, and persons engaged to assist the Consultant, for services rendered pursuant to this Order at their reasonable and customary rates; (c) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client relationship with the Consultant and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other privilege or doctrine to prevent the Consultant from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the Commission staff; and (d) during the period of engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement, shall not enter into any employment, customer, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with the Consultant.
K. Morgan Asset shall cause the Consultant to enter into an agreement that provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the engagement, the Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Morgan Asset, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity. The agreement will also provide that the Consultant will require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the Atlanta Regional Office
 
Commission staff, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, fiduciary, auditing or other professional relationship with Morgan Asset, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Consultant may serve as a Consultant for Morgan Keegan, pursuant to paragraph 32 above.
L.. Morgan Asset shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth above. The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. The certification and supporting material shall be submitted to William P. Hicks, Associate Regional Director in the Commission's Atlanta Regional Office, or any other member of the Commission's staff identified to receive the report by the staff, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the undertakings.
Certification of Compliance by Respondent
35. Morgan Asset further undertakes as follows:
. Morgan Asset undertakes to cooperate fully with the Commission in any and all investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters described in this Order or involving, directly or indirectly, trading in or valuation of, the securities of the funds described in this Order. In connection with such cooperation, Morgan Asset has undertaken:
Ongoing Cooperation by Morgan Asset
To produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents and other information reasonably requested by the Commission's staff or by the Distribution Agent to be appointed pursuant to the Order, with a custodian declaration as to their authenticity, if requested;
To use its best efforts to cause its employees and former employees to be interviewed by the Commission's staff, at the option of the staff with representatives of other government agencies present, at such times and places as the staff reasonably may direct. Live interviews on 72 hours notice at the Commission's Atlanta office or its headquarters office, or at any U.S or state government office in Memphis Tennessee, and telephone interviews on 48 hours notice, at the option of the staff, shall be deemed to be reasonable.
To use its best efforts to cause its employees to appear and testify truthfully and completely without service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations, depositions, hearings or trials as may be requested by the Commission's staff; and
In connection with any interviews of Morgan Asset employees to be conducted pursuant to this undertaking, requests for such interviews may be provided by the Commission's staff to Morgan Asset's General Counsel, or such other counsel that may be substituted by Morgan Asset.
 
36. Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset undertake to, pursuant to and in compliance with this Order and with orders being entered in Joint Administrative Proceedings (File Nos. SC-2010-0016 (Alabama), 2010-AH-021 (Kentucky) and 08011 (South Carolina), and the separate Tennessee matter File No. 12.06-107077J (collectively "the State Proceedings"), and the sanctions described in Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent No. 2007011164502, jointly and severally pay the total sum of $200 million, including the disgorgement, interest and penalties to be ordered in this matter.
37. Kelsoe undertakes to, pursuant to and in compliance with this Order and with orders being entered in the State Proceedings, to pay$500,000 in penalties, including the penalties to be ordered in this matter pursuant to paragraph IV. L.
In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered the undertakings in paragraphs 33, 35, 36 and 37, above.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents' Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 4C and 15(b) of the Exchange Act, Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act, and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A. Respondents Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset are censured.
B. Respondent Morgan Keegan shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of, Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act and Rules 22c-1 and 38a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act.
C. Respondent Morgan Asset shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, and Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act and Rules 22c-1 and 38a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act.
D. Respondent Kelsoe shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, and Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act and Rules 22c-1 and 38a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act.
E. Respondent Weller shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Rules 22c-1 and 38a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act.
 
F. Respondent Kelsoe be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, and is prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self -regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
G. Respondent Kelsoe be, and hereby is, barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
H. Respondent Weller be, and hereby is suspended from association in a supervisory capacity with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for a period of 12 months, effective on the second Monday following the entry of this Order, and is prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter, for a period of 12 months, effective on the second Monday following the entry of this Order.
I. Respondent Weller be, and hereby is, suspended from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock for a period of 12 months, effective on the second Monday following the entry of this Order.
J. Respondent Weller is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.
After two years from the date of this Order, Respondent Weller may request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:
 
1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of any public company's financial statements that are filed with the Commission. Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent Weller's work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or
2. an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the Commission that:
(a) Respondent Weller, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("Board") in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective;
(b) Respondent Weller, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent's or the firm's quality control system that would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;
(c) Respondent Weller has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and
(d) Respondent Weller acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.
The Commission will consider an application by Respondent Weller to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy. However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits. The Commission's review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent's character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission.
K. Respondents Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset shall jointly and severally pay disgorgement of $20,500,000 and prejudgment interest of $4,500,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission, and a civil penalty of $75,000,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission, within ten (10) business days of the entry of this Order.
L. Respondent Kelsoe shall pay a civil penalty of $250,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission, within ten (10) days of this Order.
 
M. Respondent Weller shall pay a civil penalty of $50,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission, within ten (10) days of this Order.
N. All payments pursuant to paragraphs IV. K, L and M, above, shall be made by certified check, bank cashier's check, or United States postal money order payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The payment shall be delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Accounts Receivable, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Stop 6042, Washington DC 20549, and shall be accompanied by a letter identifying Respondent as a respondent in this action; setting forth the title and civil action number of this action and the name of this Court; and specifying that payment is made pursuant to this Order, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to William P. Hicks, Associate Regional Administrator, Securities and Exchange Commission, 3475 Lenox Rd., N.E., Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326-1232. If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C.  3717 and/or SEC Rule of Practice 600.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair Fund is created for the disgorgement, interest, and penalties described in Paragraphs IV. K, L and M and any funds paid in connection with related actions pursuant to Paragraph III. 36, above. Regardless of whether any such distribution is made from such Fair Fund, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent's payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that any Respondent receiving such offset shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a private damages action brought against any of the Respondents by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
O. The disgorgement, interest, civil penalties, and any other funds which may be paid to the Fair Fund through or as the result of related actions, shall be aggregated in the Fair Fund, which shall be maintained in an interest-bearing account, and shall be distributed pursuant to a distribution plan (the "Plan") to be administered in accordance with the Commission Rules of Practice governing Fair Funds and disgorgement plans. A Fund Administrator (the "Administrator") shall be appointed by the Commission. The Administrator shall identify the investors in the Funds who suffered losses as a result of the violations determined herein, evaluate investor claims and propose and effectuate a plan to distribute the Fair Fund resulting from this order. The Fair Fund shall be used to compensate injured customers for their loss. Under no circumstances shall any part of the Fair Fund be returned to Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset,
 
Kelsoe or Weller. Respondent Morgan Keegan shall pay all reasonable costs and expenses of such distribution within thirty (30) days after receipt of an invoice for such services.
P. Morgan Keegan shall comply with the undertakings specified in Paragraph 32 above.
Q. Morgan Asset shall comply with the undertakings specified in Paragraph 34 above.
By the Commission.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9216 of FINRA's Code of Procedure, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("Morgan Keegan" or the "Firm") submits this Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent ("AWC") for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule violations described below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, FINRA will not bring any future actions against Morgan Keegan alleging violations based on the same factual findings described herein.
 
Morgan Keegan, with principal offices in Memphis, Tennessee is a regional broker-dealer that has been registered with FINRA and the Securities and Exchange Commission since 1969. Morgan Keegan is a wholly owned subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, a financial holding company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. With over 2,800 registered representatives and 320 branch offices in 20 states, primarily in the Southeast United States, Morgan Keegan offers products and services including mutual funds, securities brokerage, asset management, financial planning, securities underwriting, and sales and trading. Morgan Keegan has no relevant disciplinary history.
During the period January 1, 2006 through September 30, 2007 (the relevant period), member firm Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. marketed and sold to retail investors the Regions Morgan Keegan Select Intermediate Bond Fund (the "Intermediate Fund"), which was invested predominantly in structured products.
During all or part of the relevant period, sales materials for the Intermediate Fund contained exaggerated claims, failed to provide a sound basis for evaluating the facts regarding the Intermediate Fund, were not fair and balanced, and did not adequately disclose the impact of market conditions in the summer of 2007 that caused substantial losses to the value of the Intermediate Fund. The firm's supervision of the preparation and the review of the Intermediate Fund's sales materials and internal guidance were not reasonably designed to achieve compliance with NASD rules.
The Intermediate Fund was marketed as a relatively safe, investment grade fixed income mutual fund investment. It ultimately suffered risks far different from the risks certain investors expected in an investment grade fixed income bond fund, such as the risks associated with the fund's investments in lower investment grade tranches of asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities and the risks associated with the portfolio manager's strategy. Those investments later led to a substantial decline in value of the fund. During the relevant period those risks were not explicitly reflected in the sales materials or internal guidance described below. Certain sales materials for the Intermediate Fund also failed to provide a sound basis to evaluate the fund's objectives, diversification, and other information regarding the fund.
The Intermediate Fund invested predominantly in structured products, including mezzanine and subordinated tranches of structured securities (including sub-prime products), to achieve greater returns. In 2007, serious turmoil in the asset-backed securities market impacted the fund. Nevertheless, Morgan Keegan allowed the use of sales material for the Intermediate Fund that did not adequately disclose these difficulties to customers or that a portion of the fund portfolio was adversely affected by then-current economic conditions.
By using certain sales materials that contained exaggerated claims which caused the Intermediate Fund sales materials not to be fair and balanced, and that failed to provide investors with a sound basis for evaluating the fund, Morgan Keegan violated NASD Rules 2210 (Communications with the Public) and 2110 (Just and Equitable Principles). By failing to establish, maintain and enforce a system, including written supervisory procedures, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with NASD's advertising rules, Morgan Keegan violated NASD Rules 3010 (Supervision) and 2110.
Morgan Keegan performed due diligence and provided research, investment advice, and performance updates regarding the Intermediate Fund, some of which portrayed the fund as a safer investment than it was. By failing to establish, maintain and enforce a system, including
 
written supervisory procedures, reasonably designed to ensure that its internal guidance provided a sound basis for evaluating the facts regarding the Intermediate Fund, and did not contain exaggerated claims regarding the Intermediate Fund, Morgan Keegan also violated NASD Rules 3010 and 2110.
 
Morgan Keegan sold to retail investors the Intermediate Fund, advised by Morgan Asset Management (MAM), an investment adviser affiliate of Morgan Keegan. MAM's senior portfolio manager selected the investments for the portfolio.
As a portfolio manager who created "unique" products, he primarily invested in out-of-favor bonds that he believed were undervalued and would generate above average yields. From the outset, the Intermediate Fund was intended to be of low correlation to conventional indices  that is, to behave differently than broad-based fixed income indices  and provide a steady stream of above-market income to investors. Although the portfolio invested in conventional corporate debt instruments or equity products, the majority of the portfolio was invested in asset-backed securities or structured products (that is, securities backed by specific collateral, such as mortgages).
Certain mortgage-backed securities began to experience serious turmoil in early 2007, most notably in the sub-prime home equity arena, which negatively affected the Intermediate Fund.
 
 
From the outset, the Intermediate Fund sought "a high level of income" and "capital growth as a secondary objective when consistent with the Fund's primary objective." It outperformed almost all other intermediate bond funds by pursuing a "contrarian" and "unique" strategy of investing heavily in asset- and mortgage-backed securities  with a focus upon subordinate tranches of structured deals  and little in government securities. As a result, it was a low correlation fund vis--vis its benchmark, the Lehman Brothers Intermediate U.S. Aggregate Index. As a Morningstar analyst observed, the Intermediate Fund held nearly 60% of assets rated in the three lowest investment grade categories, "about three times the [intermediate-term bond] category average."
However, as Morgan Keegan's due diligence analyst observed in 2007 in a never-issued report, the fund's "specialization in less traditional sectors" put the fund "at risk of periodic underperformance when these areas are out of favor." As the Director of the Investments Department stated in an internal May 15, 2007 e-mail:
 
The [Intermediate Fund] has a huge underweight in Govt bonds, a large overweight in asset-backed securities and an overweight in Corp bonds. Again, these differences result in lower correlation, higher tracking error and most importantly, far different risks than the broad market and than what most investors would expect from their fixed income portfolio As a result of the non-traditional exposures, [the fund] simply does not act like a traditional bond fund Clearly [the fund] acts differently than the market, but the magnitude of that difference is comparatively large. Again, this is all a result of the holdings within the fund [T]here are some risk exposures with this fund that are just different than more traditional bond funds. In addition, this fund has a fair amount of liquidity risk
The Intermediate Fund, which could only be purchased or held in a Morgan Keegan account, invested significantly in certain asset backed securities.
 
 
 
 
To sell the Intermediate Fund, Morgan Keegan distributed certain written materials to investors that conveyed that the fund was relatively safe, but did not disclose certain risks. The firm prepared and made available its own materials (, Preferred Fund Profiles) in addition to distributing materials prepared by MAM (, glossies).
e.g.
e.g.
Not all of the Intermediate Fund glossies and profiles issued and in effect during the relevant period were fair and balanced because they did not adequately disclose the risks associated with
 
investing in subordinated tranches of structured products and the quantity held by the Intermediate Fund.
 
During the relevant period, Morgan Keegan distributed to retail customers sales material regarding the Intermediate Fund internally referred to as advertising "glossies." The glossies were provided in hard copy to brokers to distribute to customers and publicly available on MAM's website, mkfunds.com.
The glossies conveyed that the fund was a relatively safe, diversified investment appropriate for investors seeking both capital preservation and income and failed to provide certain information about the nature of the investments or adequately disclose certain risks.
First, the Intermediate Fund prospectuses stated that the fund's "primary objective" is "a high level income" with a secondary goal of "capital growth" only "when consistent with the fund's primary objective." By contrast, the glossies indicated that the fund should be considered by investors seeking "capital preservation and income."
"Capital preservation" involves a significantly less aggressive strategy than "capital growth." By representing that the fund was appropriate for investors seeking "capital preservation and income" when the fund's stated objectives were primarily a "high level of income" with a secondary objective of "capital growth," the glossies contained exaggerated statements regarding the objectives of the fund.
Second, the glossies used during the relevant period highlighted the benefits of diversification and stated that the risks associated with the fund were reduced because it maintained a diversified portfolio.
The Intermediate Fund was not as diversified in terms of asset classes as some of the glossies portrayed. The glossies for the Intermediate Fund Morgan Keegan used during the relevant period contained pie charts depicting investments in 1013 different asset classes, including CMOs, CDOs, CLOs, and variants thereof.
However, contemporaneous fund materials, such as quarterly updates prepared by the fund manager, depicted the Intermediate Fund as having only 56 asset classes with the majority of exposure to two categories that shared many of the same risks: asset backed securities and CMOs.
Had the glossies adequately disclosed the Intermediate Fund's holdings in two closely related asset classes, they may have alerted investors that the fund was not as diversified as to asset class and might suffer outsized decline under certain economic conditions.
 
During the relevant period, Wealth Management Services ("WMS"), a division of Morgan Keegan, prepared and made available to brokers quarterly "Preferred Fund Profiles" describing the Intermediate Fund and providing financial information as of the end of the previous quarter.
Morgan Keegan approved the profiles for use with customers. Morgan Keegan described them as "Compliance Approved profiles [that] are excellent overviews to accompany proposals or to provide educational information on all funds on the Best Ideas List." Regardless of internal approval, none of the relevant profiles for the Intermediate Fund were submitted to FINRA for review, as required by NASD Rule 2210(c)(2).
At the top of the first page, directly beneath the name of the Intermediate Fund and in large type, each profile included a subheading providing a short characterization of the fund.
Each profile also provided a narrative section titled "Investment Philosophy," which described the investment philosophy of the Intermediate Fund.
 
Profiles for the Intermediate Fund issued quarterly through calendar year 2006 described the Intermediate Fund in a subheading simply as "Taxable Fixed Income" and otherwise failed to provide adequate risk disclosure about the nature of the fund.
For example, these profiles did not specifically state that the Intermediate Fund invested in subordinated tranches of structured deals.
The Investment Philosophy section of these profiles recommended that the Intermediate Fund "is best used as a core plus in a diversified fixed income portfolio." The term "core plus" is nowhere defined or otherwise explained in the profile.
Certain relevant facts that were not included in the 2006 profiles for the Intermediate Fund were included in one profile amended in the fourth quarter of 2006 (performance data as of September 30, 2006). Although only in use for part of the fourth quarter, this profile for the Intermediate Fund disclosed information not included in both previous and subsequent profiles:
 
 
 
Neither term "non-traditional" or "low correlation" was defined in the profile.
 
Morgan Keegan changed the subheading describing the Intermediate Fund from "Enhanced Low Correlation Fixed Income" to "Intermediate Gov't/Corp. Bond" in early 2007. This subheading was exaggerated because at the time the change was made, less than four percent of the Intermediate Fund's investments were in government bonds or agency bonds.
The Investment Philosophy section returned to language that appeared in the earlier versions of 2006 profiles and no longer stated that the Intermediate Fund invested in "inferior" tranches of structured deals or that such investments suffer from a "lack of demand and liquidity."
The 2007 profiles for the Intermediate Fund also returned to the prior language contained in the earlier versions of the 2006 profiles: "The strategy is best used as a core plus in a diversified fixed income portfolio."
 
Beginning in early 2007, there was turmoil in the mortgage-backed securities market, most notably in the sub-prime home equity arena, which impacted the Intermediate Fund. Over the following months, portfolio values substantially declined as the market turmoil spread to other types of mortgage-related securities, including all structured finance products, and finally to corporate debt.
Morgan Keegan was aware in early 2007 that the Intermediate Fund was experiencing difficulties related to the holdings in the fund. In conference calls in February and March 2007, the portfolio manager told some Morgan Keegan brokers that the fund had invested in the subprime market and that net asset values were probably going to be hurt. By early April 2007, the portfolio manager reported that stress in the market had spread to other areas, and that he was "concern[ed] and alarm[ed]" about the fund's net asset values. In mid-July 2007, he acknowledged that "it has been a rough couple of months here with the funds," and warned that "anything that is in structured finance region is now in a real credit vacuum."
The firm did not disclose adequately to retail investors these effects in its advertising and sales literature for the Intermediate Fund.
 
In addition to the sales materials for the Intermediate Fund made available to the sales force for distribution to customers, Morgan Keegan provided incomplete internal guidance regarding the
 
Intermediate Fund.
WMS was a resource available to the brokers in selecting investments for clients, allocating assets, and constructing portfolio models. Although WMS viewed the brokers as its clients and did not sell securities directly to customers, it created the Preferred Fund Profiles for use with customers and was available to assist the brokers with investment planning, asset allocation, and traditional and alternative investment recommendations, as well as ongoing performance monitoring.
WMS performed due diligence on traditional and alternative mutual funds and managers, and maintained a list of select mutual funds and alternative investment products which was available to the firm's brokers. Morgan Keegan's website stated to investors that the firm subjected recommended mutual funds to "one of the most detailed, thorough and exhaustive due diligence processes in the industry," which "goes beyond [analysis of past performance data] to look deep inside not only the funds, but the fund companies and managers who offer them." WMS recommended the Intermediate Fund through its Select List of Investments through mid-2007, during which time it covered the fund.
Notwithstanding its statement that it would conduct rigorous due diligence and provide fulsome and timely disclosure regarding funds it covered, WMS distributed certain information and recommendations to brokers that failed to provide a sound basis to evaluate the facts about the Intermediate Fund or explain the effect of market conditions on the fund in 2007.
 
WMS issued quarterly a Recommended List of Investments (renamed "Select Lists of Investments" in mid-2006). The lists were divided into several sections, including Mutual Funds and Alternative Investments, and further categorized by type of investment. To be accepted on the Select List, a fund had to be rated a "buy."
In 2006, WMS classified the Intermediate Fund in both the Core Plus category in the Mutual Funds section and in the Non-Traditional Mutual Funds category of the Alternative Investments section.
On or about January 17, 2007, WMS notified brokers that the Intermediate Fund had been removed from the "Core Plus" category and classified it solely as a "Non-Traditional Mutual Fund" in the Alternative Investments section.
The January 2007 reclassification was not due to any change in the holdings of the Intermediate Fund, and WMS stated that the reason for the change was that "the type of bonds, investment process, and the liquidity of the holdings has [sic] vast similarities to that of a Non-Traditional
 
fixed income product." WMS did not further clarify the meaning of "non-traditional" in this context.
WMS also stated that "The Investments Department has suggested for some time that the fund be used in lower allocations as a supplement around the Core Bond Fund holding to help reduce volatility." This suggested use of the Intermediate Fund was not included in the profiles.
The terms "Non-Traditional Mutual Fund" and "Alternative Investment" suggest different investment styles and products in the financial industry.
The reclassification of the Intermediate Fund solely as an alternative investment caused concern among certain Morgan Keegan brokers who had viewed the fund as a more traditional intermediate bond fund.
 
During the relevant period, WMS had several proprietary asset allocation models to serve clients with various investment objectives and risk tolerances. Each of these programs had five recommended portfolios, which identified specific investments for allocation within the model portfolio.
The Intermediate Fund was included in all allocations in models for small portfolios ($10,000 minimum) as well as the two most conservative allocations for larger portfolios ($50,000 and $500,000 minimums). By weighting the Intermediate Fund more heavily in conservative model recommendations, Morgan Keegan may have created an impression that the Intermediate Fund was safer than it was.
 
The Intermediate Fund could only be purchased through Morgan Keegan, and the firm sold over $676 million in 2006 and in 2007. The Intermediate Fund was substantially invested in investment-grade structured products with certain risks that should have been disclosed to investors. Morgan Keegan had a duty to take appropriate steps to ensure that its associated persons understood and informed its customers about the risks of the Intermediate Fund.
Morgan Keegan did not adequately implement and enforce systems or written procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its advertising materials or its internal guidance were accurate and complete as to certain risks of the Intermediate Fund.
 
As described above, Morgan Keegan afforded brokers the opportunity to utilize WMS's research, promotional, and recommendation infrastructure when selling securities to investors. In addition, Morgan Keegan provided promotional material to investors describing its internal fund due diligence arm, WMS, and stating that recommended investments were subjected to rigorous due diligence and ongoing monitoring. The Intermediate Fund remained on WMS' Select List of Investments through mid-2007, and was covered by a WMS analyst through preferred fund profiles issued by WMS.
The head of the Investments Department stated that compared to other intermediate bond funds, the Intermediate Fund had "lower correlation, higher tracking error and most importantly, far different risks than the broad market and than what most investors would expect from their fixed income portfolio." As a result, WMS' opinion was that the Intermediate Fund should be used as a satellite fund around more traditional "core" intermediate bond fund holdings in wealth accumulation portfolios.
After holding out WMS as a valuable resource for information and analysis of recommended securities, Morgan Keegan should have taken steps to ensure that WMS more accurately and effectively communicated certain risks of the Intermediate Fund.
 
Morgan Keegan described the Preferred Fund Profiles as "Compliance Approved," updated them quarterly, and made them available on the firm's intranet website to brokers for use with retail investors. The firm substantially revised the "Investment Philosophy" section of the profiles for the Intermediate Fund in late 2006 and again in early 2007 in connection with a wholesale format change. However, the firm did not conduct supervisory review or approval of the profiles for the Intermediate Fund during the relevant period for compliance with FINRA's advertising rules.
The glossies for the Intermediate Fund were subjected to insufficient firm review consisting of ensuring that the narrative text remained unchanged from version to version and that data and charts had been updated by other personnel. In fall 2007, after the Intermediate Fund had suffered substantial losses, the glossies were changed to more accurately reflect the reference to the fund's investment objectives.
As a consequence, Morgan Keegan utilized marketing materials that were not fair and balanced, did not provide a sound basis for evaluating the Fund and conveyed that the Intermediate Fund was safer than it was. Further, beginning in March 2007, none of the materials disclosed the effect market conditions were having on the Intermediate Fund.
 
In 2007, when the values of certain of the Intermediate Fund's holdings in mortgage backed securities began to negatively impact the fund, the firm failed to take steps reasonably designed to advise of the effect of market conditions or the risks of investing in the fund under then-current market conditions. Morgan Keegan lacked effective systems, policies and procedures reasonably designed to timely warn that the market was affecting the performance of the Intermediate Fund.
Despite the effect of market conditions on the Intermediate Fund, some brokers sold the fund to customers without disclosing the market effects. The head of Morgan Keegan's retail sales force advised brokers and his own customers to "hold on buy more" of the Regions Morgan Keegan bond funds, including the Intermediate Fund. For example, on August 17, 2007, in response to a customer seeking "reassurance," the head of Morgan Keegan's sales force stated:
All is well with [the portfolio manager] and the funds that he manages. The liquidity crises in the bond market caused by the sub prime lending phenomena bled over into bonds of all types, including those owned in the RMK funds. It is temporary and the bonds are still paying and the default rates are still at low levels.
It may take a few months for these prices on bonds to run their course but in the mean time we are still investing the dividends monthly and just building up more shares at even lower prices.
Morgan Keegan distributed glossies regarding the Intermediate Fund that failed to provide a sound basis for evaluating the facts regarding the Intermediate Fund, and were not fair and balanced.
The glossies incorrectly implied that the Intermediate Fund's primary investment objective was capital preservation and income.
The glossies overstated the Intermediate Fund's asset class diversification.
The glossies failed to disclose certain information regarding the Intermediate Fund's investments in securities rated below investment grade or the risks of those investments.
 
Each advertising glossy for the Intermediate Fund was generally distributed or available to Morgan Keegan customers and otherwise met the definition of "sales literature" in NASD Rule 2210(a)(2).
By distributing sales literature for the Intermediate Fund that contained exaggerated claims, failed to provide a sound basis for evaluating the facts regarding the Intermediate Fund, and were not fair and balanced, Morgan Keegan violated NASD Conduct Rules 2110 and 2210.
Morgan Keegan made available profiles regarding the Intermediate Fund that contained unwarranted information regarding the Intermediate Fund and failed to provide certain information or certain risks of investing in the fund.
The profiles for the Intermediate Fund failed to disclose certain information regarding the risks of investing in asset-backed securities, including the risks of investing in subordinated tranches of structured products, and the risks associated with the portfolio manager's strategy.
Each of the profiles for the Intermediate Fund was made available to Morgan Keegan customers and otherwise met the definition of "sales literature" in NASD Rule 2210(a)(2).
By making available communications with the public regarding the Intermediate Fund that contained exaggerated claims, were not fair and balanced, and failed to provide a sound basis for evaluating the facts regarding the Intermediate Fund, Morgan Keegan violated NASD Conduct Rules 2110 and 2210.
Morgan Keegan distributed glossies regarding the Intermediate Fund during the relevant period. Morgan Keegan made available profiles regarding the Intermediate Fund during the relevant period.
During 2007, market conditions were having a negative effect on the performance of the Intermediate Fund.
The glossies and profiles related to the Intermediate Fund failed to disclose certain information concerning the effect of market conditions on the fund.
 
By distributing communications with the public that omitted discussion of certain specific market conditions necessary to provide a sound basis to evaluate the Intermediate Fund and a fair and balanced presentation affecting the Intermediate Fund, Morgan Keegan violated NASD Conduct Rules 2110 and 2210.
During the relevant period, Morgan Keegan prepared quarterly Preferred Fund Profiles for the Intermediate Fund.
Morgan Keegan never submitted the Intermediate Fund profiles used during the relevant period to FINRA for review.
Each of the Intermediate Fund profiles was generally distributed or available to Morgan Keegan customers and otherwise met the definition of "sales literature" in NASD Rule 2210(a)(2).
By distributing sales literature concerning registered companies without filing such materials with FINRA, Morgan Keegan violated NASD Conduct Rules 2110 and 2210(c).
 
Morgan Keegan recommended the Intermediate Fund through its Select List of Investments and undertook to provide thorough due diligence, investment advice, and timely performance updates on the fund. The Intermediate Fund was substantially invested in asset-backed securities with certain risks that should have been effectively disclosed to investors.
Morgan Keegan's supervisory system and written procedures were not reasonably designed to ensure that its Intermediate Fund profiles, or the Intermediate Fund glossies disclosed certain information as to risk and did not contain exaggerated claims. As a result, Morgan Keegan failed to adequately describe the nature, holdings and certain risks of the Intermediate Fund.
By failing to adequately supervise the review and dissemination of advertising material, Morgan Keegan failed to establish, maintain, and enforce an adequate supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with NASD rules in the sale of the Intermediate Fund in violation of NASD Conduct Rules 3010(a), 3010(b), and 2110.
 
Beginning in 2007, when the particular risks associated with the Intermediate Fund's holdings began to negatively impact the holdings in the fund, the firm failed to take steps reasonably designed to revise its advertising materials to inform of the effect of market conditions or the specific risks of investing in the fund under the then current market conditions.
Morgan Keegan failed to timely revise advertising materials to reflect the impact of market conditions on the Intermediate Fund. Accordingly, Morgan Keegan failed to establish, maintain, and enforce an adequate supervisory system, including written supervisory procedures, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the advertising rules in the sale of the Intermediate Fund in violation of NASD Conduct Rules 3010(a), 3010(b), and 2110.
 
A censure and the following undertakings:
 
 
Morgan Keegan specifically and voluntarily waives the following rights granted under FINRA's Code of Procedure:
 
 
 
 
 
Further, Morgan Keegan specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim bias or prejudgment of the General Counsel, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including acceptance or rejection of this AWC.
Morgan Keegan further specifically and voluntarily waives any right to claim that a person violated the ex parte prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of FINRA Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
Morgan Keegan understands that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned, on behalf of Morgan Keegan, certifies that a person duly authorized to act on its behalf has read and understands all of the provisions of this AWC and has been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it; that Morgan Keegan has agreed to its provisions voluntarily; and that no offer, threat, inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the terms set forth herein and the prospect of avoiding the issuance of a Complaint, has been made to induce the Firm to submit it.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
WHEREAS, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("MKC") is a broker-dealer in the State of Alabama; and
WHEREAS, Morgan Asset Management, Inc. ("MAM") is an affiliate of MKC and notice-filed as an investment adviser in the State of Alabama; and
WHEREAS, James C. Kelsoe, Jr. (hereinafter, sometimes referred to as "Kelsoe" or the "Individual Respondent") was, at relevant times, employed by MAM and registered through MKC; and
WHEREAS, coordinated investigations into the activities of MKC, MAM and Kelsoe, in connection with certain violations of the Alabama Securities Act and other state securities acts,  ("Act") and certain business practices, have been conducted by a multistate task force ("Task Force") and an additional investigation has been conducted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") (collectively, the "Regulators"); and
Code of Alabama, 8-6-1, et seq. (1975)
WHEREAS, MKC and MAM have cooperated with the Task Force conducting the investigations by responding to inquiries, providing documentary evidence and other materials, and providing Regulators with access to facts relating to the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent have advised the Regulators of their agreement to resolve the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent elect to permanently waive any right to a hearing and appeal under , with respect to this Administrative Consent Order (the "Consent Order"); and
Code of Alabama, 8-6-32 (1975)
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent admit the jurisdictional allegations herein, and MKC and MAM admit to the allegations in paragraphs 44 through 46 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but MKC, MAM and Kelsoe, except as admitted above, otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Alabama Securities Commission ("ASC"), as administrator of the Act, hereby enters this Consent Order:
1. Respondent ("MKC") (CRD No. 4161), a Tennessee corporation, is a registered broker-dealer with the ASC and the SEC, as well as a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC. At all relevant times MKC was properly registered and notice-filed with the ASC. MKC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation ("RFC") which is headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. MKC's primary business
Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
 
address is 50 Front Street, Morgan Keegan Tower, Memphis, Tennessee 38103-9980.
2. Respondent ("MAM"), a Tennessee corporation, is a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC (CRD No. 111715) and at all relevant times was properly notice-filed with the ASC. MAM is a wholly owned subsidiary of MK Holding, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of RFC. MAM is headquartered in Alabama with a principal business address of 1901 6
Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
th
Avenue North, 4
th
Floor, Birmingham, Alabama 35203.
3. ("WMS"), a division of MKC, developed, recommended, and implemented asset allocation strategies for MKC and was to perform due diligence on traditional and alternative funds and fund managers for the benefit of MKC, its Financial Advisers (alternatively referred to as "FAs", "sales force" or "agents"), and certain investor clients.
Wealth Management Services
4. ("Kelsoe") (CRD No. 2166416) was Senior Portfolio Manager of the Funds, as defined in paragraph II.8 below, and was responsible for selecting and purchasing the holdings for the Funds. Kelsoe was an employee of MAM and registered through MKC.
James C. Kelsoe, Jr.
5. ("Sullivan") (CRD No. 2741207) was President and Chief Investment Officer of MAM. Sullivan was responsible for the overall management of MAM including oversight of the Funds.
Brian B. Sullivan
6. ("Stringer") (CRD No. 2917717) was Director of Investments for WMS. Stringer was responsible for overseeing the due diligence performed on products included on MKC's "Select List." The Select List was a list of products, including mutual funds, separate account managers, and alternative investments, that MKC represented as having passed due diligence
Gary S. Stringer
 
screening and therefore determined to be appropriate for use in client portfolios. The Select List was available to MKC FAs and was found to have been used by some number of MKC FAs when making investment recommendations to their clients. In addition, WMS, under the direction of Stringer, created and maintained the model mutual fund allocation portfolios available for use by the FAs.
7. ("Wood") (CRD No. 4534832) served as Chief Compliance Officer of the Funds, Chief Compliance Officer of MAM, and Senior Attorney and First Vice President of MKC.
Michele F. Wood
8. The seven (7) funds at issue are Regions Morgan Keegan Select Intermediate Bond Fund ("Intermediate Bond Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Select High Income Fund ("Select High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Advantage Income Fund ("Advantage Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan High Income Fund ("High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Multi-Sector High Income Fund ("Multi-Sector High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Strategic Income Fund ("Strategic Income Fund"), and Regions Morgan Keegan Select Short Term Bond Fund ("Short Term Bond Fund") (collectively, the "Funds").
9. Six (6) of the seven (7) Funds were largely invested in mezzanine and lower subordinated "tranches," or slices, of structured debt instruments, which carry more risk than the senior tranches.
1
The Funds were comprised of many of the same holdings. On June 30, 2007, approximately two-thirds (2/3) of
 
 
the holdings of the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund were substantially identical. Approximately one quarter (1/4) of the Intermediate Bond Fund's holdings corresponded to the holdings of the five (5) high yield Funds. The Funds were highly correlated, meaning they behaved like each other under similar market conditions. The combination of subordinated tranche holdings and the high correlation of the Funds caused investors owning more than one (1) of these funds to have a heightened risk of over concentration.
10. The Funds were created and managed by Kelsoe, MAM Senior portfolio manager. Kelsoe was also principally responsible for the purchase and sale of all of the holdings in the Funds.
11. When WMS ceased reporting and dropped its coverage of the Select Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund in July 2007, it failed to announce the drop in coverage in writing until November, 2007. WMS did not publish a withdrawal of its prior analysis or recommend the Funds' replacement.
12. On January 19, 2007, WMS announced it was reclassifying the Intermediate Bond Fund on the Select List from "Fixed Income" to "Non-Traditional Fixed Income." Meanwhile, WMS profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund continued to label it as the "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond."
13. Certain of the Funds' annual, semi-annual, and quarterly reports filed with the SEC did not adequately disclose the risks of subordinated tranches and the quantity of subordinated tranches held within the Funds.
14. MAM produced quarterly glossies for all seven (7) Funds. In the glossies, MAM did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
 
15. MKC, through WMS, produced quarterly Fund Profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund, the Select High Income Fund, and the Short Term Bond Fund that did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
16. In SEC filings and state notice filings of March and June 2007 involving the Funds, Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000.00) of what MAM characterized as corporate bonds and preferred stocks were, in fact, the lower, subordinated tranches of asset-backed structured debt instruments. MAM eventually reclassified certain of these structured debt instruments in the March 2008 Form N-Q Holdings Report for the three (3) open-end funds.
17. In SEC filings, MAM compared the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund (collectively the "RMK high-yield funds"), which contained approximately two-thirds (2/3) structured debt instruments, to the Lehman Brothers U.S. High Yield Index ("Lehman Ba Index"). The Lehman Ba Index is not directly comparable to the RMK high-yield funds given the fact that the Lehman Ba Index contained only corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments.
18. Certain marketing materials and reports minimized the risks and volatility associated with investing in funds largely comprised of structured debt instruments. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and in previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, MAM and MKC marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund as a fund appropriate for "Capital Preservation & Income." MAM later revised the Intermediate Bond Fund glossy in September 2007 by removing the caption "Capital Preservation & Income" and replacing it with "Income & Growth," and
 
by removing the word "stability," which had previously been used to describe the fund.
19. The Intermediate Bond Fund glossies dated June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007, stated that the Intermediate Bond Fund "does not invest in speculative derivatives." However, the Intermediate Bond Fund did use derivatives, including interest-only strips, and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), which are derived from the mezzanine and lower tranches of other debt securities.
20. Respondent MKC through WMS labeled the Intermediate Bond Fund with varying names. None of the three labels "Taxable Fixed Income", "Enhanced Low-Correlation" and "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond" used by MKC adequately portrayed the nature of the Intermediate Bond Fund, of which approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the portfolio was invested in the mezzanine or lower subordinated tranches of structured debt instruments. The label "Gov't/Corp Bond," which first appeared on the December 31, 2006 profile sheet, was never changed after that date.
 
21. During the period January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, preceding the collapse of the subprime market, MAM made 262 downward price adjustments for the purpose of adjusting the net asset value ("NAV") of the Funds. In some instances, MAM's communications led MKC, through its sales force, to actively discourage investors from selling the Funds  even while fund prices continued to decline  by advising investors to "hold the course." Some members of MKC, MAM, and their management personnel continued during this
 
period to advise FAs and investors to buy the Funds through, statements that characterized the decline as "a buying opportunity."
inter alia,
22. MKC and MAM failed to adequately supervise the flow of information to the MKC sales force concerning the Funds. For example, in conference calls with the sales force, the senior portfolio manager for the Funds cited sub-prime fears and liquidity as the primary factors for a decline in the net asset value of the Funds without fully explaining the market impact on certain securities held by the Funds.
23. WMS did not complete a thorough annual due diligence report of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in 2007. A fixed income analyst for WMS, attempted to complete an annual due diligence review of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in the summer of 2007, but was unsuccessful due to Kelsoe's and MAM's failure to provide sufficient information and Kelsoe's failure to be available for a meeting during normal operating hours. Subsequently, WMS failed to notify the MKC sales force of WMS's failure to complete the annual on-site due diligence review. An incomplete draft of WMS's annual due diligence report for internal use only was submitted by the WMS analyst, but it was neither completed nor released to the sales force.
24. On July 31, 2007, WMS dropped coverage of all proprietary products, which included the funds for which WMS could not produce a thorough report. This fact was not disclosed in writing to the sales force until November 2007.
25. Based on WMS's one (1) page, one (1) paragraph report of the August 18, 2006 on-site due diligence review, the due diligence visits by the
 
WMS fixed income analysts were not "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive," as advertised by MKC. There are two (2) WMS profiles of the Intermediate Bond Fund dated September 30, 2006. The sections titled "investment philosophy" in the profile sheets contain substantial differences. The first WMS profile for the Intermediate Bond Fund, based on the information for the quarter ending September 30, 2006, is titled "Taxable Fixed Income." The first profile, much like previous quarterly profiles, does not refer to any of the holdings as "inferior tranches." Neither does it mention potential lack of demand and lack of liquidity. Further, it includes the statement that "The fund does not use derivatives or leverage."
26. WMS's changing of the Intermediate Bond Fund profile label indicated WMS's inability and lack of supervision in the creation of these marketing pieces to accurately categorize the Intermediate Bond Fund. Within one (1) quarter, WMS identified the Intermediate Bond Fund three (3) different ways:
September 30, 2006 - Taxable Fixed Income
September 30, 2006 - Enhanced Low Correlations Fixed Income
December 31, 2006 - Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond
27. The "Gov't/Corp Bond" label implied that the Intermediate Bond Fund holdings were predominately government and corporate bonds carrying a certain degree of safety. This improper labeling indicates a failure to conduct proper due diligence, a duty of MKC.
28. In addition, all profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund from March 31, 2006, through June 30, 2007, stated that Kelsoe was joined by Rip Mecherle ("Mecherle") as assistant portfolio manager. Mecherle left MAM in 2004. The failure to detect the errors in promotional materials relating to
 
management does not reflect the "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive due diligence" claimed by MKC in its sales and promotional material distributed to investors.
 
29. Respondent MAM indicated that risks and volatility were minimized in the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, Respondents marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund's broad diversification of asset classes three (3) times on the first page of each of the glossies, when in fact, approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio was composed of structured debt instruments which included risky assets. The four (4) closed-end funds also advertised diversification among asset classes, despite the similarities in asset classes as set forth in Section C below.
30. Furthermore, the glossies emphasized the Select High Income Fund's net asset value as being less volatile than typical high-yield funds. The glossies failed to state that a reason for any lower volatility was that the structured debt instruments within the Select High Income Fund were not actively traded, and that the daily fair value adjustments of certain holdings were imprecise in a market that became illiquid.
31. In certain cases, MKC and its sales force failed to obtain adequate suitability information regarding risk tolerance that was necessary to determine suitability for using the Funds for regular brokerage account customers. New account forms for regular brokerage accounts provided a menu of four (4) investment objectives to choose from: Growth, Income, Speculation, and Tax-Advantaged. Risk tolerance was not addressed by the form, was not noted by the
 
sales force whose records were examined during the investigation, and may not have been taken into consideration when the sales force made its recommendations.
32. In at least one instance, an agent of MKC provided a customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
 
33. Marketing glossies prepared by MAM for the Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund contained allocation pie charts dividing the categories of holdings by percentages of the total portfolio. Between June 2004 and March 2005, the pie charts for both funds changed significantly: MAM divided the category originally titled "asset-backed securities" into multiple categories. These changes indicated that the holdings of these Funds were more diversified than they actually were because the majority of the portfolios continued to be invested in asset-backed securities.
 
 
 
shown as separate categories, but together still comprise seventy-six percent (76%) of the portfolio.
 
 
 
 
 
34. The pie charts in the glossies for the High Income Fund were also changed in a similar manner between June 2004 and March 2005.
35. Similar changes were also made to pie charts in glossies for the Advantage Income Fund and the Strategic Income Fund between December 2004 and March 2005.
36. Respondent MKC used different index comparisons in the Select High Income Fund "Profile" sheets produced by WMS. These profile sheets compared the Select High Income Fund to the Credit Suisse First Boston High Yield Index, as well as the Merrill Lynch US High Yield Cash BB Index. These two indices only contain corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments. The Select High Income Fund contained substantially different risks than the portfolios within either of the two indices, and therefore these benchmarks were not directly comparable.
 
37. While the models for WMS managed accounts limited the use of the Intermediate Bond Fund to certain percentages, usually no more than fifteen percent (15%) of any client's portfolio, there was no such limitation for non-managed accounts. Additionally, no guidance was provided to the FAs regarding
 
limiting concentrations of the Intermediate Bond Fund in non-managed accounts. As a result, certain customer accounts contained in excess of a twenty percent (20%) concentration of the Intermediate Bond Fund.
38. The four closed-end funds, the Select High Income Fund and the Intermediate Bond Fund were all highly correlated. However, MKC provided limited guidance to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of combinations of the Funds in non-managed accounts.
39. Up until six (6) months before the collapse of the fund, WMS classified the Intermediate Bond Fund as "Core Plus" in the Fixed Income section of the Select List. At that time it was reclassified as "Alternative Fixed Income" in the Non-Traditional section of the Select List. Yet MKC's concentration for many of its non-WMS managed accounts continued to be above twenty percent (20%) which could indicate its use as a core holding. An e-mail chain from Gary S. Stringer of WMS states as follows:
Stringer Gary [Gary.Stringer@morgankeegan.com]
From:
Tuesday, May 15, 2007 4:10 PM
Sent:
Hennek, Roderick
To:
Re: RMK Intermediate Bond Fund
Subject:
Rod,
I did notice that you didn't cc anyone on your email, and I appreciate that. We've always had good, candid conversation.
You have a good point in that we have some low correlation equity strategies on the Traditional side. What worries me about this bond fund is the tracking error and the potential risks associated with all that asset-backed exposure. They think the return are great because the PM is so smart. He definitely is smart, but it's the same as thinking your small cap manager is a hero because he beat the S&P for the last 5 years.
Mr & Mrs Jones don't expect that kind of risk from their bond funds. The bond exposure is not supposed to be where you take risks. I'd bet that most of the people who hold that fund have no idea what's it's actually invested in. I'm just as sure that most of our FAs have no idea what's in that fund either.
If people are using RMK as their core, or only bond fund, I think it's only a matter of time before we have some very unhappy investors.
(Emphasis added.).
 
Certain MKC brokers and branch managers interviewed during the investigation stated that they received limited or no guidance as to appropriate concentrations of the Funds to use within clients' accounts.
 
40. An agent of MKC provided one known customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
41. The MKC agent referred to in the preceding paragraph created a sales illustration in which he compared the returns for the Intermediate Bond Fund to the returns for traditional bank CDs. The agent used the illustration in order to market the Intermediate Bond Fund to bank customers. The agent stated that he created the illustration and that the illustration was not reviewed or approved by appropriate supervisory personnel of MKC. The chart fails to address any risks of investing in the Intermediate Bond Fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
 
42. Carter Anthony, President of MAM from 2001 until the end of 2006, has testified under oath that he conducted performance reviews of all MAM mutual fund managers that included reviews of their portfolios and trading. However, he testified that he did not conduct the same supervisory review and oversight of Kelsoe and the Funds because he was instructed to "leave Kelsoe alone." MAM denies that any such instruction was given.
 
43. In December 2001, Kelsoe signed a new account form as branch manager, when he, in fact, was never a branch manager nor held any supervisory/compliance licenses. Proper supervision of Kelsoe's activities would have detected such an unauthorized action on his part.
 
44. MAM's Fund Management fundamental and qualitative research was touted in marketing and research material.
45. MAM, through its Portfolio Managers, selected securities for investments by the Funds' portfolios. MAM was consulted regarding the fair valuation of certain securities held by the portfolios. Adequate documentation was not retained as to pricing adjustments recommended by MAM to be made to certain of the securities.
46. WMS performed annual due diligence reviews of certain of the Funds and Fund management (MAM and Kelsoe). In mid-2007, MAM and Kelsoe did not provide sufficient information to allow completion of the 2007 annual due diligence review conducted by MKC through WMS. Kelsoe did not make himself available for a meeting during normal operating hours, further delaying the completion of WMS's on-site due diligence review. As a consequence, the report for two of the open-end funds was not completed. By August 2007, WMS dropped coverage of proprietary products and a report for 2007 was never released to the MKC sales force.
 
47. In addition to his duties regarding management of the Funds and selection of investments, Kelsoe was responsible for reviewing information regarding holdings of the Funds to be included in marketing materials and filings
 
with the SEC. Kelsoe also was responsible for supervising his staff's involvement with these processes, as well as their interaction with third parties. Kelsoe had the most knowledge at MAM about the nature of the holdings of the Funds, including the types of securities being purchased or sold for the Funds, the risks associated with the holdings, and the correlation of the holdings among the Funds. Kelsoe and his staff provided information for the preparation of regulatory filings, marketing materials, reports and communications about the Funds. Kelsoe contributed to and delivered commentaries for the Funds and management discussions of fund performance. The SEC filings for the Funds, for which Kelsoe and his staff furnished information regarding holdings of each of the Funds, were provided to Kelsoe for his review prior to filing.
48. Kelsoe contributed to and was aware of the usage of the glossies and certain other marketing materials for the Funds by MAM, as described above, including the descriptions of the Funds, the allocation pie charts, the use of benchmarks, and characterizations of risks and features of the Funds.
49. Kelsoe's involvement in the fair valuation process for securities held by the Funds during the period from January 1, 2007 to July 31, 2007, including influencing some dealer confirmations that were returned, contributed to certain inaccurate valuations of selected holdings on various dates during that period.
50. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe did not retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds. These recommendations were used on occasion in the calculation of the daily net asset values of the Funds.
 
51. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe failed to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain MKC FAs.
1. The ASC is responsible for the enforcement of laws governing the issuance, sale, and other transactions relative to securities pursuant to .
Code of Alabama 8-6-50 (1975)
2. In violation of
Code of Alabama, 8-6-3(j)(10) (1975)
2
and ASC Rule 830-X-3-.13
, MKC and/or MAM conducted and participated in the following practices:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. In violation of  and ASC Rule 830-X-3-.13, MKC and/or MAM failed to reasonably supervise their agents, employees and associated persons in the following manner:
Code of Alabama, 8-6-3(j)(10) (1975)
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. In violation of  and ASC Rule 830-X-3-.12, MKC and/or MAM failed to make suitable recommendations to some investors as demonstrated by the following:
Code of Alabama, 8-6-3(j)(7) (1975)
 
 
 
5. In violation of  and ASC Rule 830-X-3-.13(3)(b), MKC failed to enforce their supervisory procedures in the following manner:
Code of Alabama, 8-6-3(j)(10) (1975)
 
 
6. In violation of  and ASC Rule 830-X-3-.13(c), MKC and/or MAM in many instances failed to review correspondence and marketing materials used by associated persons to sell the Funds:
Code of Alabama, 8-6-3(j)(10) (1975)
 
 
 
7. In violation of ASC Rule 830-X-3-.12, in certain cases, MAM and MKC inappropriately recommended the purchase of the Funds for client portfolios without reasonable justification that said recommendation was suitable for the client.
 
8. In violation of , MKC distributed marketing materials and MAM distributed disclosure materials that were inaccurate:
Code of Alabama, 8-6-3(j)(7) (1975)
 
 
 
 
 
9. In violation of the  and ASC Rules 830-X-3-.14 and 830-X-3-.16, Kelsoe failed to retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds.
Code of Alabama, 8-6-3(j)(2) (1975)
10. In violation of  and ASC Rule 830-X-3-.13, Kelsoe failed to reasonably supervise his staff by failing to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain Morgan Keegan Financial Advisors.
Code of Alabama, 8-6-3(j)(10) (1975)
 
11. In further violation of the Alabama securities laws, Kelsoe participated in the advertising and supervisory violations set forth above.
12. As a result of the foregoing, the ASC finds this Consent Order and the following relief appropriate and in the public interest, and consistent with the Act.
On the basis of the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and MKC's, MAM's and Kelsoe's consents to the entry of this Order,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:
1. Entry of this Consent Order concludes the investigation by the ASC and any other action that the ASC could commence under applicable Alabama law on behalf of the ASC as it relates to Kelsoe, MKC and MAM, any of their affiliates, and any of their past or present employees or other agents in any way relating to the Funds, and acceptance by the ASC of the settlement offer and payments referenced in this Consent Order shall be in satisfaction of and preclude any action that the ASC could commence under applicable Alabama law against the foregoing; provided however, that excluded from and not covered by this paragraph are (a) individual sales practice violations that could have been brought even had the violations asserted herein against MKC, MAM, or Kelsoe not occurred, and (b) any claims by the ASC arising from or relating to violations of the provisions contained in this Consent Order. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the ASC from opposing a request for expungement by a past or present employee or other agent before a regulatory or self-regulatory entity, any court of competent jurisdiction, or any hearing officer, under circumstances it deems
 
appropriate. This paragraph also has no application to the individual respondents who are not parties/signatories to this Consent Order.
2. This Consent Order is entered into for the purpose of resolving in full the referenced multistate investigation with respect to Respondents who have executed this Consent Order and any of their affiliates, as such investigation relates to the allegations of the Joint Notice of Intent to Revoke Registration. This Consent Order does not nullify, dismiss, impact, or otherwise affect investigations or proceedings as to any individual or person who is not a party or an affiliate of said party to this Consent Order.
3. The findings of fact, conclusions of law and order contained in this Consent Order have been extensively negotiated. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or at law or in equity to the contrary, nothing contained in this Consent Order, including without any limitation any finding of fact, allegation, assertion, or conclusion of law herein, shall preclude, impact, affect, limit, or bar in any manner whatsoever any claims or actions against, or defenses of, Sullivan, Stringer, or Wood based on the same circumstances and/or legal theories contained herein. This Consent Order shall not be admissible as evidence of any alleged violations in any proceeding brought by Regulators against the individual respondents other than Kelsoe.
4. MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe will CEASE AND DESIST from violating the Act, and will comply with the Act.
5. Pursuant to this Alabama Consent Order ((SC-2010-0016) and related Consent Orders of the States of Tennessee (Docket No.: 12.06-107077J/Order No. 11-005), South Carolina (File No.: 08011), Kentucky (Agency Case No.: 2010-AH-021/Administrative Action No.: 10-PPC0267), and
 
Mississippi (Administrative Proceeding File No. S-08-0050), the offer of settlement in SEC Administrative Proceeding (File No. 3-13847) (the "SEC Order") and the FINRA Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent No. 2007011164502, MKC and MAM shall pay in resolution of all of these matters, within ten (10) days of the entry of the SEC Order the sum of Two Hundred Million Dollars ($200,000,000.00) to be distributed as follows: 1) One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000.00) to the SEC's Fair Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of the SEC Order; and 2) One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000.00) to a States' Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of this Consent Order. Any costs, expenses, and charges associated with the Fair Fund and States' Fund management and distributions shall be paid by MKC and MAM and shall not diminish the fund corpus. The Fair Fund and the State's Fund shall be distributed pursuant to distribution plans drawn up by the administrator(s) ("Fair Fund Administrator" for the SEC's portion and "Fund Administrator" for the States' portion). The administrator(s) are to be respectively chosen by a representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Tennessee, and South Carolina ("States' Fund Representative"), and the SEC. Nothing in this paragraph shall require or limit the SEC's and the States' choice of fund administrators which may or may not be the same entity or person for both funds. Respondents shall pay the sum of One Million Two Hundred Nine Thousand Dollars ($1,209,000.00) as reimbursement of direct and indirect costs and expenses of the ASC's cost for investigating this matter, which shall be payable to, or pursuant to the direction of, the Alabama Securities Commission.
 
6. MKC and MAM shall pay the sum of One Million Seven Hundred Ten Thousand Three Hundred Eighty Seven Dollars ($1,710,387.00) to the ASC as a monetary settlement and investigative costs, which amount constitutes the State of Alabama's share of the state settlement amount of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000.00), which shall be payable as follows: One Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,500,000.00) payable to the Alabama Securities Commission; One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) payable to the Office of the Attorney General, State of Alabama; and One Hundred Ten Thousand Three Hundred Eighty Seven Dollars ($110,387.00) payable to the Investor Protection Trust ("IPT") for investor education and training in and for the State of Alabama. All funds shall be delivered to the office of the ASC within ten (10) days of the later of the execution of this Consent Order or the date on which the SEC Order is entered. In the event another state securities regulator determines not to accept the settlement offer, the total amount of the payment to the State of Alabama shall not be affected.
7. MKC and MAM shall also pay the sum of Twenty-three Thousand Dollars ($23,000.00) to the North American Securities Administrators Association ("NASAA") as reimbursement for its costs, expended on states behalf.
8. Kelsoe shall cause to be paid the sum of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) to the ASC as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of Alabama's proportionate share of the state settlement amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000.00), which shall be payable to the Alabama Securities Commission. All funds shall be delivered to the office of the ASC within ten (10) days of the later of the execution of this Consent Order or the
 
date on which the SEC Order is entered. Acceptance of the settlement offer and the payment referenced above in this paragraph by the ASC shall be in full satisfaction of and preclude any action that the Division could commence under applicable law against Kelsoe related in any way to his management of the Funds, and otherwise disposes of claims against Kelsoe as set forth in this Consent Order.
9. As additional consideration for the dismissal of the administrative proceeding by the ASC, Kelsoe does hereby agree to the revocation of all existing registrations and/or licenses and to an Order of Permanent Bar:
a. He shall not apply for registration as an issuer agent, broker-dealer agent or investment adviser representative in the State of Alabama.
b. He shall not serve as an officer, director, or manager of, or issuer of interests in, a mutual fund, money market fund, pooled-investments or similar securities and investment vehicles which are publicly offered or sold in the State of Alabama.
10. If any payments are not made by MKC, MAM, or on behalf of Kelsoe, the ASC may vacate this Consent Order, at its sole discretion, upon thirty (30) days notice to MKC and/or MAM, or as appropriate, Kelsoe, and, without opportunity for an administrative hearing, enter a final order or decree if such default is not cured to the satisfaction of the regulators within the thirty (30) day notice period. Any dispute related to any payments required under this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of Alabama without regard to any choice of law principles.
11. This Consent Order shall not disqualify MKC and MAM, or any of their affiliates or registered representatives from any business that they otherwise are qualified or licensed to perform under any applicable state law and is not
 
intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualification or suspension in any state. Further, this Consent Order is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualifications contained in the federal securities law, the rules and regulations thereunder, the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations, or various states' securities laws including but not limited to any disqualifications from relying upon the registration exemptions or safe harbor provisions.
12. MKC, MAM, and all of their existing and future affiliates and subsidiaries are prohibited from creating, offering or selling a proprietary fund
3
that is a registered investment company and is marketed and sold to investors other than institutional and other qualified investors as defined in Section 3(a)(54) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.  78c(a)(54), ("proprietary fund") for a period of two (2) years from the entry of the first of the State Consent Orders to be entered in this matter. MKC, MAM, their affiliates or subsidiaries, may seek permission to resume offering or begin offering a proprietary fund in Alabama after the lapse of the first year of the prohibition, but may not proceed with the offer and sale of such proprietary fund in Alabama prior to receiving the express written consent and approval of the Administrator of the ASC.
13. State Regulatory Audits or Examinations as authorized by . In addition to any state regulatory audits or examinations authorized by State statute, the state regulatory authority may conduct appropriate audits or examinations of the offices and branch offices of the Respondents MKC and MAM. Appropriate costs associated with such audits or examinations conducted within two (2) years from the date of this Consent Order,
Code of Alabama, 8-6-3(i) (1975)
 
 
shall be borne by MKC and/or MAM. This provision in no way limits the assessment of costs by states which routinely assess registrants with the costs of audits.
14. If prior to January 1, 2016, MKC and/or MAM shall again form and sell any proprietary investment products
4
, they shall at that time retain, for a period of three (3) years, at their own expense, an independent auditor, acceptable to the representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Tennessee, and South Carolina ("States' Representative") and the SEC. The independent auditor cannot be an affiliated entity of MKC or MAM. Further, to ensure the independence of the independent auditor, MKC and/or MAM: (a) shall not have the authority to terminate the independent auditor without prior written approval of the States' Representative; (b) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client relationship with the independent auditor and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other privilege or doctrine to prevent the independent auditor from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the States; and (c) during the period of engagement and for a period of two (2) years after the engagement, shall not enter into any employment,
 
 
customer, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with the independent auditor.
The scope of the independent auditor's engagement shall be approved by the States' Representative prior to the commencement of the audit, and shall include, but is not limited to, reviews and examinations of:
 
 
 
 
15. Further, the independent auditor shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. MKC and MAM shall:
 
 
 
 
17. MKC and MAM shall retain within sixty (60) days of the entry of this Consent Order, at their own expense, an independent consultant ("Consultant"), acceptable to the States' Representative, and the SEC. The Consultant shall review MKC's and/or MAM's: (i) current written supervisory and compliance procedures concerning product suitability; (ii) current written
 
supervisory and compliance procedures regarding recommendations and disclosures relating to registered investment companies; (iii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures relating to advertising and sales literature regarding the purchase and sale of registered investment companies; and (iv) the implementation and effectiveness of (i) through (iii); provided that the lookback period for (i) through (iii) shall not exceed the twelve month period prior to the entry of this Consent Order.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. MKC and MAM shall provide, for a period of three (3) years, to all of their registered agents and investment adviser representatives mandatory,
 
comprehensive, and ongoing (i) product/offering training on each of the proprietary products/offerings that they sell or recommend to clients, and (ii) training on suitability and risks of investments generally. The training required pursuant to this paragraph shall be in addition to any continuing education training required to maintain the registrations of the registered agents and investment adviser representatives and shall include, at a minimum, training on all of the following:
 
 
 
 
19. For training related to proprietary products/offerings, MKC and MAM shall develop and implement course evaluations to be completed by each FA in order to assess the effectiveness of the training.
20. MKC and MAM shall;
 
 
 
 
 
 
21. One person shall not simultaneously hold the positions of General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer for either Respondent.
 
22. Nothing herein shall preclude the State of Alabama, its departments, agencies, boards, commissions, authorities, political subdivisions, and corporations (collectively "State Entities"), other than the ASC and only to the extent set forth herein, from asserting any claims, causes of action, or applications for compensatory, nominal and/or punitive damages, administrative, civil, criminal, or injunctive relief against MKC and MAM in connection with the marketing and sales practices of the Funds at MKC or MAM.
23. Any dispute or default other than related to payments as referenced in paragraph 10 related to this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of Alabama without regard to any choice of law principles.
24. Unless otherwise stipulated, the parties intend that the monies allocated through the SEC's Fair Fund and/or the States' Fund, including the monies allocated pursuant to this Consent Order, to the investors of any given state will be treated as an offset against any order for MKC, MAM or Kelsoe, or any of them, to pay any amount (whether designated as restitution, fines or otherwise compensatory in nature) in any action brought by that State or any of the regulatory agencies thereof and not concluded by this Consent Order. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as delineated in paragraphs 44 through 46, this Consent Order is presumed to be treated as a settlement for evidentiary purposes not as evidence of either damage or liability itself. MKC and MAM further agree that in the event they should enter into a consent order prior to an adjudication on the merits with another State's securities regulator which provides each investor a higher return of losses per invested dollar than under the terms of
 
this Consent Order, then the ASC may, at its option, obtain the same payout of losses per invested dollar for the investors of this State.
25. Respondents MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe agree not to make or permit to be made any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any finding in this Consent Order or creating the impression that this Consent Order is without factual basis. Nothing in this paragraph affects MKC's, MAM's, or Kelsoe's: (i) testimonial obligations, or (ii) right to take legal or factual positions in defense of litigation or arbitration or in defense of other legal proceedings in which the ASC is not a party.
26. In connection with any action by the ASC against Sullivan, Wood, or Stringer, MKC and MAM will produce, upon reasonable notice but without service of a subpoena, any and all documents and other information requested by the ASC, and make available witnesses under their control for any further testimony, investigations, administrative proceedings or hearings and shall cooperate fully in any and all current or future administrative proceedings against those parties. If any documents or other information requested is claimed as "privileged", Respondents shall provide a "privilege log" and any further dispute concerning production of said document(s) shall be submitted to a hearing officer under applicable state rules or procedures for final determination. Nothing herein shall affect any statutory authority of the ASC, including but not limited to, inspections, visits, examinations, and/or the production of documents.
27. This Consent Order shall be binding upon MKC and MAM, and their successors and assigns, with respect to all conduct subject to the provisions above and all future obligations, responsibilities, undertakings, commitments, limitations, restrictions, events, and conditions.
 
Dated this day of June, 2011.
    
 
 
Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("Respondents") hereby acknowledge that they have been served with a copy of this Administrative Consent Order ("Consent Order"), have read the foregoing Consent Order, are aware of each of their right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and have waived the same.
Respondents admit the jurisdiction of the ASC; admit to the allegations in paragraphs 41 through 43 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding; and Respondents further consent to entry of this Consent Order by the ASC as settlement of the issues contained in this Consent Order.
Respondents enter into this Consent Order voluntarily and represent that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the ASC or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the ASC to induce Respondents to enter into this Consent Order other than as set forth in the Consent Order.
represents that he/she is of Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Asset Management, Inc. to enter into this Consent Order for and on behalf of Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
                     
                    
represents that he/she is of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and that, as such,
                     
                    
 
has been authorized by Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. to enter into this Consent Order for and on behalf of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
Respondents agree that they shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of Alabama for any monetary penalty or restitution that Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order. Respondents understand and acknowledge that these provisions are not intended to imply that the ASC would agree that any other amounts Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
Dated this day of June, 2011.
    
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                        
    
 
 
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                        
    
 
 
 
James C. Kelsoe, Jr. ("Individual Respondent") hereby acknowledges that he has been served with a copy of this Consent Order ("Consent Order"), has read the foregoing Consent Order, is aware of his right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and has waived the same.
Individual Respondent admits the jurisdiction of the Division; but otherwise neither admits nor denies any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this Consent Order; and Individual Respondent further consents to entry of this Consent Order by the Division as settlement of the issues contained in this Consent Order.
Individual Respondent enters into this Consent Order voluntarily and represents that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the Division or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the Division to induce Individual Respondent to enter into this Consent Order.
Individual Respondent agrees, if applicable, that he shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of Alabama, for any monetary penalty that Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order. Individual Respondent understands and acknowledges that these provisions are not intended to imply that the Division would agree that any other amounts Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
 
Dated this day of June, 2011.
    
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                    
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
WHEREAS, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("MKC") is a broker-dealer in the state of Kentucky; and
WHEREAS, Morgan Asset Management, Inc. ("MAM") is an affiliate of MKC and notice-filed as an investment adviser in the state of Kentucky; and
WHEREAS, James C. Kelsoe, Jr. (hereinafter, sometimes referred to as "Kelsoe" or the "Individual Respondent") was, at relevant times, employed by MAM and registered through MKC,; and
WHEREAS, coordinated investigations into the activities of MKC, MAM and Kelsoe, in connection with certain violations of the Securities Act of Kentucky, KRS Chapter 292
1
and
 
other state securities acts, ("Act") and certain business practices, have been conducted by a multistate task force ("Task Force") and an additional investigation has been conducted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") (collectively, the "Regulators"); and
WHEREAS, MKC and MAM have cooperated with the Task Force conducting the investigations by responding to inquiries, providing documentary evidence and other materials, and providing Regulators with access to facts relating to the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent have advised the Regulators of their agreement to resolve the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent elect to permanently waive any right to a hearing and appeal under KRS 292.470, KRS 292.490, and KRS Chapter 13B , with respect to this Administrative Consent Order (the "Consent Order"); and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent admit the jurisdictional allegations herein, and MKC and MAM admit to the allegations in paragraphs 44 through 46 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but MKC, MAM and Kelsoe except as admitted above, otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Commissioner of the Department of Financial Institutions ("DFI") , as administrator of the Act, hereby enters this Consent Order:
RESPONDENTS AND PERSONS/ENTITIES AFFILIATED WITH THE RESPONDENTS
1. Respondent ("MKC") (CRD No. 4161), a Tennessee corporation, is a registered broker-dealer with the DFI and the SEC, as well as a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC. At all relevant times MKC was properly
Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
 
registered and notice-filed with the DFI. MKC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation ("RFC") which is headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. MKC's primary business address is 50 Front Street, Morgan Keegan Tower, Memphis, Tennessee 38103-9980.
2. Respondent ("MAM"), a Tennessee corporation, is a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC (CRD No. 111715) and at all relevant times was properly notice filed with the DFI. MAM is a wholly owned subsidiary of MK Holding, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of RFC. MAM is headquartered in Alabama with a principal business address of 1901 6
Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
th
Avenue North, 4
th
Floor, Birmingham, Alabama 35203.
3. ("WMS"), a division of MKC, developed, recommended, and implemented asset allocation strategies for MKC and was to perform due diligence on traditional and alternative funds and fund managers for the benefit of MKC, its Financial Advisers (alternatively referred to as "FAs", "sales force" or "agents"), and certain investor clients.
Wealth Management Services
4. Respondent ("Kelsoe") (CRD No. 2166416) was Senior Portfolio Manager of the Funds, as defined in paragraph II.8 below, and was responsible for selecting and purchasing the holdings for the Funds. Kelsoe was an employee of MAM and registered through MKC.
James C. Kelsoe, Jr.
5. ("Sullivan") (CRD No. 2741207) was President and Chief Investment Officer of MAM. Sullivan was responsible for the overall management of MAM including oversight of the Funds.
Brian B. Sullivan
6. ("Stringer") (CRD No. 2917717) was Director of Investments for WMS. Stringer was responsible for overseeing the due diligence performed on products
Gary S. Stringer
 
included on MKC's "Select List." The Select List was a list of products, including mutual funds, separate account managers, and alternative investments, that MKC represented as having passed due diligence screening and therefore determined to be appropriate for use in client portfolios. The Select List was available to MKC FAs and was found to have been used by some number of MKC FAs when making investment recommendations to their clients. In addition, WMS, under the direction of Stringer, created and maintained the model mutual fund allocation portfolios available for use by the FAs.
7. ("Wood") (CRD No. 4534832) served as Chief Compliance Officer of the Funds, Chief Compliance Officer of MAM, and Senior Attorney and First Vice President of MKC.
Michele F. Wood
8. The seven (7) funds at issue are Regions Morgan Keegan Select Intermediate Bond Fund ("Intermediate Bond Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Select High Income Fund ("Select High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Advantage Income Fund ("Advantage Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan High Income Fund ("High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Multi-Sector High Income Fund ("Multi-Sector High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Strategic Income Fund ("Strategic Income Fund"), and Regions Morgan Keegan Select Short Term Bond Fund ("Short Term Bond Fund") (collectively, the "Funds").
9. Six (6) of the seven (7) Funds were largely invested in mezzanine and lower subordinated "tranches," or slices, of structured debt instruments, which carry more risk than the senior tranches.
2
The Funds were comprised of many of the same holdings. On June 30, 2007,
 
 
approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the holdings of the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund were substantially identical. Approximately one quarter (1/4) of the Intermediate Bond Fund's holdings corresponded to the holdings of the five (5) high yield Funds. The Funds were highly correlated, meaning they behaved like each other under similar market conditions. The combination of subordinated tranche holdings and the high correlation of the Funds caused investors owning more than one (1) of these funds to have a heightened risk of over concentration.
10. The Funds were created and managed by Kelsoe, MAM Senior portfolio manager. Kelsoe was also principally responsible for the purchase and sale of all of the holdings in the Funds.
11. When WMS ceased reporting and dropped its coverage of the Select Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund in July 2007, it failed to announce the drop in coverage in writing until November, 2007. WMS did not publish a withdrawal of its prior analysis or recommend the Funds' replacement.
12. On January 19, 2007, WMS announced it was reclassifying the Intermediate Bond Fund on the Select List from "Fixed Income" to "Non-Traditional Fixed Income." Meanwhile, WMS profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund continued to label it as the "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond."
13. Certain of the Funds' annual, semi-annual, and quarterly reports filed with the SEC did not adequately disclose the risks of subordinated tranches and the quantity of subordinated tranches held within the Funds.
 
14. MAM produced quarterly glossies for all seven (7) Funds. In the glossies, MAM did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
15. MKC, through WMS, produced quarterly Fund Profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund, the Select High Income Fund, and the Short Term Bond Fund that did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
16. In SEC filings and state notice filings of March and June 2007 involving the Funds, Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000.00) of what MAM characterized as corporate bonds and preferred stocks were, in fact, the lower, subordinated tranches of asset-backed structured debt instruments. MAM eventually reclassified certain of these structured debt instruments in the March 2008 Form N-Q Holdings Report for the three (3) open-end funds.
17. In SEC filings, MAM compared the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund (collectively the "RMK high-yield funds"), which contained approximately two-thirds (2/3) structured debt instruments, to the Lehman Brothers U.S. High Yield Index ("Lehman Ba Index"). The Lehman Ba Index is not directly comparable to the RMK high-yield funds given the fact that the Lehman Ba Index contained only corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments.
18. Certain marketing materials and reports minimized the risks and volatility associated with investing in funds largely comprised of structured debt instruments. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and in previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, MAM and MKC marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund as a fund appropriate for "Capital Preservation & Income." MAM later revised the Intermediate Bond Fund glossy in September 2007 by removing the caption
 
"Capital Preservation & Income" and replacing it with "Income & Growth," and by removing the word "stability," which had previously been used to describe the fund.
19. The Intermediate Bond Fund glossies dated June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007, stated that the Intermediate Bond Fund "does not invest in speculative derivatives." However, the Intermediate Bond Fund did use derivatives, including interest-only strips, and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), which are derived from the mezzanine and lower tranches of other debt securities.
20. Respondent MKC through WMS labeled the Intermediate Bond Fund with varying names. None of the three labels "Taxable Fixed Income", "Enhanced Low-Correlation" and "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond" used by MKC adequately portrayed the nature of the Intermediate Bond Fund, of which approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the portfolio was invested in the mezzanine or lower subordinated tranches of structured debt instruments. The label "Gov't/Corp Bond," which first appeared on the December 31, 2006 profile sheet, was never changed after that date.
 
21. During the period January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, preceding the collapse of the subprime market, MAM made 262 downward price adjustments for the purpose of adjusting the net asset value ("NAV") of the Funds. In some instances, MAM's communications led MKC, through its sales force, to actively discourage investors from selling the Funds  even while fund prices continued to decline  by advising investors to "hold the course." Some members of MKC, MAM, and their management personnel continued during this period to advise FAs and investors to buy the Funds through, inter alia, statements that characterized the decline as "a buying opportunity."
 
22. MKC and MAM failed to adequately supervise the flow of information to the MKC sales force concerning the Funds. For example, in conference calls with the sales force, the senior portfolio manager for the Funds cited sub-prime fears and liquidity as the primary factors for a decline in the net asset value of the Funds without fully explaining the market impact on certain securities held by the Funds.
23. WMS did not complete a thorough annual due diligence report of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in 2007. A fixed income analyst for WMS, attempted to complete an annual due diligence review of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in the summer of 2007, but was unsuccessful due to Kelsoe's and MAM's failure to provide sufficient information and Kelsoe's failure to be available for a meeting during normal operating hours. Subsequently, WMS failed to notify the MKC sales force of WMS's failure to complete the annual on-site due diligence review. An incomplete draft of WMS's annual due diligence report for internal use only was submitted by the WMS analyst, but it was neither completed nor released to the sales force.
24. On July 31, 2007, WMS dropped coverage of all proprietary products, which included the funds for which WMS could not produce a thorough report. This fact was not disclosed in writing to the sales force until November 2007.
25. Based on WMS's one (1) page, one (1) paragraph report of the August 18, 2006 on-site due diligence review, the due diligence visits by the WMS fixed income analysts were not "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive," as advertised by MKC. There are two (2) WMS profiles of the Intermediate Bond Fund dated September 30, 2006. The sections titled "investment philosophy" in the profile sheets contain substantial differences. The first WMS profile for the Intermediate Bond Fund, based on the information for the quarter ending
 
September 30, 2006, is titled "Taxable Fixed Income." The first profile, much like previous quarterly profiles, does not refer to any of the holdings as "inferior tranches." Neither does it mention potential lack of demand and lack of liquidity. Further, it includes the statement that "The fund does not use derivatives or leverage."
26. WMS's changing of the Intermediate Bond Fund profile label indicated WMS's inability and lack of supervision in the creation of these marketing pieces to accurately categorize the Intermediate Bond Fund. Within one (1) quarter, WMS identified the Intermediate Bond Fund three (3) different ways:
September 30, 2006 - Taxable Fixed Income
September 30, 2006 - Enhanced Low Correlations Fixed Income
December 31, 2006 - Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond
27. The "Gov't/Corp Bond" label implied that the Intermediate Bond Fund holdings were predominately government and corporate bonds carrying a certain degree of safety. This improper labeling indicates a failure to conduct proper due diligence, a duty of MKC.
28. In addition, all profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund from March 31, 2006, through June 30, 2007, stated that Kelsoe was joined by Rip Mecherle ("Mecherle") as assistant portfolio manager. Mecherle left MAM in 2004. The failure to detect the errors in promotional materials relating to management does not reflect the "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive due diligence" claimed by MKC in its sales and promotional material distributed to investors.
 
29. Respondent MAM indicated that risks and volatility were minimized in the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, Respondents marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund's broad diversification of asset classes three (3) times on the first page of each of the glossies, when in fact, approximately
 
two-thirds (2/3) of the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio was composed of structured debt instruments which included risky assets. The four (4) closed-end funds also advertised diversification among asset classes, despite the similarities in asset classes as set forth in Section C below.
30. Furthermore, the glossies emphasized the Select High Income Fund's net asset value as being less volatile than typical high-yield funds. The glossies failed to state that a reason for any lower volatility was that the structured debt instruments within the Select High Income Fund were not actively traded, and that the daily fair value adjustments of certain holdings were imprecise in a market that became illiquid.
31. In certain cases, MKC and its sales force failed to obtain adequate suitability information regarding risk tolerance that was necessary to determine suitability for using the Funds for regular brokerage account customers. New account forms for regular brokerage accounts provided a menu of four (4) investment objectives to choose from: Growth, Income, Speculation, and Tax-Advantaged. Risk tolerance was not addressed by the form, was not noted by the sales force whose records were examined during the investigation, and may not have been taken into consideration when the sales force made its recommendations.
32. In at least one instance, an agent of MKC provided a customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
 
33. Marketing glossies prepared by MAM for the Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund contained allocation pie charts dividing the categories of holdings by percentages of the total portfolio. Between June 2004 and March 2005, the pie charts for both funds changed significantly: MAM divided the category originally titled "asset-backed securities" into multiple categories. These changes indicated that the holdings of these Funds were more diversified than they actually were because the majority of the portfolios continued to be invested in asset-backed securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
34. The pie charts in the glossies for the High Income Fund were also changed in a similar manner between June 2004 and March 2005.
35. Similar changes were also made to pie charts in glossies for the Advantage Income Fund and the Strategic Income Fund between December 2004 and March 2005.
36. Respondent MKC used different index comparisons in the Select High Income Fund "Profile" sheets produced by WMS. These profile sheets compared the Select High Income Fund to the Credit Suisse First Boston High Yield Index, as well as the Merrill Lynch US High Yield Cash BB Index. These two indices only contain corporate bonds and no structured debt
 
instruments. The Select High Income Fund contained substantially different risks than the portfolios within either of the two indices, and therefore these benchmarks were not directly comparable.
 
37. While the models for WMS managed accounts limited the use of the Intermediate Bond Fund to certain percentages, usually no more than fifteen percent (15%) of any client's portfolio, there was no such limitation for non-managed accounts. Additionally, no guidance was provided to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of the Intermediate Bond Fund in non-managed accounts. As a result, certain customer accounts contained in excess of a twenty percent (20%) concentration of the Intermediate Bond Fund.
38. The four closed-end funds, the Select High Income Fund and the Intermediate Bond Fund were all highly correlated. However, MKC provided limited guidance to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of combinations of the Funds in non-managed accounts.
39. Up until six (6) months before the collapse of the fund, WMS classified the Intermediate Bond Fund as "Core Plus" in the Fixed Income section of the Select List. At that time it was reclassified as "Alternative Fixed Income" in the Non-Traditional section of the Select List. Yet MKC's concentration for many of its non-WMS managed accounts continued to be above twenty percent (20%) which could indicate its use as a core holding. An e-mail chain from Gary S. Stringer of WMS states as follows:
From: Stringer Gary [Gary.Stringer@morgankeegan.com]
Sent: Tuesday, May 15, 2007 4:10 PM
To: Hennek, Roderick
Subject: Re: RMK Intermediate Bond Fund
Rod,
 
I did notice that you didn't cc anyone on your email, and I appreciate that. We've always had good, candid conversation.
You have a good point in that we have some low correlation equity strategies on the Traditional side. What worries me about this bond fund is the tracking error and the potential risks associated with all that asset-backed exposure. They think the return are great because the PM is so smart. He definitely is smart, but it's the same as thinking your small cap manager is a hero because he beat the S&P for the last 5 years.
Mr & Mrs Jones don't expect that kind of risk from their bond funds. The bond exposure is not supposed to be where you take risks. I'd bet that most of the people who hold that fund have no idea what's it's actually invested in. I'm just as sure that most of our FAs have no idea what's in that fund either.
If people are using RMK as their core, or only bond fund, I think it's only a matter of time before we have some very unhappy investors.
(Emphasis added.).
Certain MKC brokers and branch managers interviewed during the investigation stated that they received limited or no guidance as to appropriate concentrations of the Funds to use within clients' accounts.
 
40. An agent of MKC provided one known customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
41. The MKC agent referred to in the preceding paragraph created a sales illustration in which he compared the returns for the Intermediate Bond Fund to the returns for traditional bank CDs. The agent used the illustration in order to market the Intermediate Bond Fund to bank customers. The agent stated that he created the illustration and that the illustration was not reviewed or approved by appropriate supervisory personnel of MKC. The chart fails to address any risks of investing in the Intermediate Bond Fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
 
42. Carter Anthony, President of MAM from 2001 until the end of 2006, has testified under oath that he conducted performance reviews of all MAM mutual fund managers that included reviews of their portfolios and trading. However, he testified that he did not conduct the same supervisory review and oversight of Kelsoe and the Funds because he was instructed to "leave Kelsoe alone." MAM denies that any such instruction was given.
43. In December 2001, Kelsoe signed a new account form as branch manager, when he, in fact, was never a branch manager nor held any supervisory/compliance licenses. Proper supervision of Kelsoe's activities would have detected such an unauthorized action on his part.
 
44. MAM's Fund Management fundamental and qualitative research was touted in marketing and research material.
45. MAM, through its Portfolio Managers, selected securities for investments by the Funds' portfolios. MAM was consulted regarding the fair valuation of certain securities held by the portfolios. Adequate documentation was not retained as to pricing adjustments recommended by MAM to be made to certain of the securities.
46. WMS performed annual due diligence reviews of certain of the Funds and Fund management (MAM and Kelsoe). In mid-2007, MAM and Kelsoe did not provide sufficient information to allow completion of the 2007 annual due diligence review conducted by MKC through WMS. Kelsoe did not make himself available for a meeting during normal operating hours, further delaying the completion of WMS's on-site due diligence review. As a consequence, the report for two of the open-end funds was not completed. By August 2007, WMS dropped coverage of proprietary products and a report for 2007 was never released to the MKC sales force.
 
47. In addition to his duties regarding management of the Funds and selection of investments, Kelsoe was responsible for reviewing information regarding holdings of the Funds to be included in marketing materials and filings with the SEC. Kelsoe also was responsible for supervising his staff's involvement with these processes, as well as their interaction with third parties. Kelsoe had the most knowledge at MAM about the nature of the holdings of the Funds, including the types of securities being purchased or sold for the Funds, the risks associated with the holdings, and the correlation of the holdings among the Funds. Kelsoe and his staff provided information for the preparation of regulatory filings, marketing materials, reports and communications about the Funds. Kelsoe contributed to and delivered commentaries for the Funds and management discussions of fund performance. The SEC filings for the Funds, for which Kelsoe and his staff furnished information regarding holdings of each of the Funds, were provided to Kelsoe for his review prior to filing.
48. Kelsoe contributed to and was aware of the usage of the glossies and certain other marketing materials for the Funds by MAM, as described above, including the descriptions of the Funds, the allocation pie charts, the use of benchmarks, and characterizations of risks and features of the Funds.
49. Kelsoe's involvement in the fair valuation process for securities held by the Funds during the period from January 1, 2007 to July 31, 2007, including influencing some dealer confirmations that were returned, contributed to certain inaccurate valuations of selected holdings on various dates during that period.
50. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe did not retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the
 
Funds. These recommendations were used on occasion in the calculation of the daily net asset values of the Funds.
51. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe failed to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain MKC FAs.
1. The DFI is responsible for the enforcement of laws governing the issuance, sale, and other transactions relative to securities pursuant to KRS 292.500(1).
2. In violation of KRS 292.330(13)(a), (now KRS 292.337(2)), 808 KAR 10:440, 808 KAR 10:450, FINRA Rules 2010 and NASD IM 2210, MKC and/or MAM conducted and participated in the following practices:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. In violation of KRS 292.330(13)(a) (now KRS 292.337(2)), 808 KAR 10:030 and NASD Rule 3010(A), MKC and/or MAM failed to reasonably supervise their agents, employees and associated persons in the following manner:
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. In violation of KRS 292.330(13)(a) (now KRS 292.337(2)), 808 KAR 10:030, Section 1, 808 KAR 10:440, Section 1, 808 KAR 10:450, Section 2 and NASD Rule 2310, MKC and/or MAM failed to make suitable recommendations to some investors as demonstrated by the following:
 
 
 
5. In violation of KRS 292.330(13)(a) (now KRS 292.337(2)), 808 KAR 10:030, Section 2 and NASD Rule 3010, MKC failed to enforce their supervisory procedures in the following manner:
 
 
6. In violation of KRS 292.330(13)(a) (now KRS 292.337(2)), 808 KAR 10:030, Section 2 , MKC and/or MAM in many instances failed to review correspondence and marketing materials used by associated persons to sell the Funds:
 
 
 
7. In violation of KRS 292.330(13)(a) (now KRS 292.337(2)), 808 KAR 10:030, Section 1, 808 KAR 10:440, Section 1 and 808 KAR 10:450, Section 2(1), in certain cases, MAM and MKC inappropriately recommended the purchase of the Funds for client portfolios without reasonable justification that said recommendation was suitable for the client.
8. In violation of KRS 292.330(13)(a)(now KRS 292.337(2)), 808 KAR 10:440, Section 1, 808 KAR 10:450, Section 2, FINRA Rule 2010 and NASD Rule 2210(d), MKC distributed marketing materials and MAM distributed disclosure materials that were inaccurate:
 
 
 
 
 
9. In violation of KRS 292.330(13)(a) (now KRS 292.337(2)), and 808 KAR 10:450, Kelsoe failed to retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds.
10. In violation of KRS 292.330(13)(a) (now KRS 292.337(2)) and 808 KAR 10:030, Section 2 , Kelsoe failed to reasonably supervise his staff by failing to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain Morgan Keegan Financial Advisors.
11. In further violation of the Act, Kelsoe participated in the advertising and supervisory violations set forth above.
12. As a result of the foregoing, the DFI finds this Consent Order and the following relief appropriate and in the public interest, and consistent with the Act.
 
On the basis of the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and MKC's, MAM's and Kelsoe's consents to the entry of this Order,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:
1. Entry of this Consent Order concludes the investigation by the DFI and any other action that the DFI could commence under applicable Kentucky law on behalf of the DFI as it relates to Kelsoe, MKC and MAM, any of their affiliates, and any of their past or present employees or other agents in any way relating to the Funds, and acceptance by the DFI of the settlement offer and payments referenced in this Consent Order shall be in satisfaction of and preclude any action that the DFI could commence under applicable Kentucky law against the foregoing; provided however, that excluded from and not covered by this paragraph are (a) individual sales practice violations that could have been brought even had the violations asserted herein against MKC, MAM, or Kelsoe not occurred, and (b) any claims by the DFI arising from or relating to violations of the provisions contained in this Consent Order. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the DFI from opposing a request for expungement by a past or present employee or other agent before a regulatory or self-regulatory entity, any court of competent jurisdiction, or any hearing officer, under circumstances it deems appropriate. This paragraph also has no application to the individual respondents who are not parties/signatories to this Consent Order.
2. This Consent Order is entered into for the purpose of resolving in full the referenced multistate investigation with respect to Respondents who have executed this Consent Order and any of their affiliates, as such investigation relates to the allegations of the Joint
 
Notice of Intent to Revoke Registration. This Consent Order does not nullify, dismiss, impact, or otherwise affect investigations or proceedings as to any individual or person who is not a party or an affiliate of said party to this Consent Order.
3. The findings of fact, conclusions of law and order contained in this Consent Order have been extensively negotiated. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or at law or in equity to the contrary, nothing contained in this Consent Order, including without any limitation any finding of fact, allegation, assertion, or conclusion of law herein, shall preclude, impact, affect, limit, or bar in any manner whatsoever any claims or actions against, or defenses of, Sullivan, Stringer, or Wood based on the same circumstances and/or legal theories contained herein. This Consent Order shall not be admissible as evidence of any alleged violations in any proceeding brought by Regulators against the individual respondents other than Kelsoe.
4. MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe will CEASE AND DESIST from violating the Act, and will comply with the Act.
5. Pursuant to this Kentucky Consent Order (Agency Case No.: 2010-AH-021/Administrative Action No.: 10-PPC0267)and the related Consent Orders of the states of Tennessee Consent Order (Docket No.: 12.06-107077J/Order No. 11-005) Alabama (SC-2010-0016), South Carolina (File No.: 08011), and Mississippi (Administrative Proceeding File No. S-08-0050), the offer of settlement in SEC Administrative Proceeding (File No. 3-13847) (the "SEC Order") and the FINRA Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent No. 2007011164502, MKC and MAM shall pay, within ten (10) days of the entry of the SEC Order the sum of Two Hundred Million Dollars ($200,000,000.00) to be distributed as follows: 1) One Hundred Million to the SEC's Fair Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of the SEC Order; and 2) One Hundred Million Dollars
 
($100,000,000.00) to a States' Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of this Consent Order. Any costs, expenses, and charges associated with the Fair Fund and States' Fund management and distributions shall be paid by MKC and MAM and shall not diminish the fund corpus. The Fair Fund and the States' Fund shall be distributed pursuant to distribution plans drawn up by the administrator(s) ("Fair Fund Administrator" for the SEC's portion and "Fund Administrator" for the States' portion). The administrator(s) are to be respectively chosen by a representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Tennessee, and South Carolina ("States' Fund Representative"), and the SEC. Nothing in this paragraph shall require or limit the SEC's and the States' choice of fund administrators which may or may not be the same entity or person for both funds. Respondents shall pay the sum of Six Thousand Four Hundred Dollars ($6,400.00) to the DFI as reimbursement of direct and indirect costs and expenses of the State's cost for investigating this matter, which shall be payable as follows: Payment shall be made to payable to the "Kentucky State Treasurer" and shall be mailed to the Department of Financial Institutions, Attn: William B. Owsley, 1025 Capital Center Drive, Suite 200, Frankfort, Kentucky 406016.
MKC and MAM shall pay the sum of Four Hundred Forty Nine Thousand Seven Hundred and Seventy Dollars ($449,770.00) to the DFI as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of Kentucky's share of the state settlement amount of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000.00), which shall be payable as follows: Payment shall be made to payable to the "Kentucky State Treasurer" for deposit in DFI's Securities Fraud Prosecution and Prevention Fund, and shall be mailed to the Department of Financial Institutions, Attn: William B. Owsley, 1025 Capital Center Drive, Suite 200, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601 . All funds shall be delivered to the office of the DFI within ten (10) days of the latter of the date of entry of this Consent
 
Order or on which the SEC Order is entered. In the event another state securities regulator determines not to accept the settlement offer, the total amount of the payment to the State of Kentucky shall not be affected.
7. MKC and MAM shall also pay the sum of Twenty-three Thousand Dollars ($23,000.00) to the North American Securities Administrators Association ("NASAA") as reimbursement for its costs, expended on states behalf.
8. Kelsoe shall cause to be paid the sum of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) to the DFI as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of Kentucky's proportionate share of the five state settlement amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000.00), which shall be payable as follows: Payment shall be made to payable to the "Kentucky State Treasurer" for deposit in DFI's Securities Fraud Prosecution and Prevention Fund, and shall be mailed to the Department of Financial Institutions, Attn: William B. Owsley, 1025 Capital Center Drive, Suite 200, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601. All funds shall be delivered to the office of the DFI within ten (10) days of the latter of the date of entry of this Consent Order or on which the SEC Order is entered. Acceptance of the settlement offer and the payment referenced above in this paragraph by the DFI shall be in full satisfaction of and preclude any action that the Division could commence under applicable law against Kelsoe related in any way to his management of the Funds, and otherwise disposes of claims against Kelsoe as set forth in this Order.
9. As additional consideration for the dismissal of the administrative proceeding by the DFI, Kelsoe does hereby agree to the revocation of all existing registrations and/or licenses and to an Order of Permanent Bar:
 
a. He shall not apply for registration as an issuer agent, broker-dealer agent or investment adviser representative in the State of Kentucky.
b. He shall not serve as an officer, director, or manager of, or issuer of interests in, a mutual fund, money market fund, pooled-investments or similar securities and investment vehicles which are publicly offered or sold in the State of Kentucky.
10. If any payments are not made by MKC, MAM, or on behalf of Kelsoe, the DFI may vacate this Consent Order, at its sole discretion, upon thirty (30) days notice to MKC and/or MAM, or as appropriate, Kelsoe, and, without opportunity for an administrative hearing, enter a final order or decree if such default is not cured to the satisfaction of the regulators within the thirty (30) day notice period. Any dispute related to any payments required under this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Kentucky without regard to any choice of law principles.
11. This Consent Order shall not disqualify MKC and MAM, or any of their affiliates or registered representatives from any business that they otherwise are qualified or licensed to perform under any applicable state law and is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualification or suspension in any state. Further, this Consent Order is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualifications contained in the federal securities law, the rules and regulations thereunder, the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations, or various states' securities laws including but not limited to any disqualifications from relying upon the registration exemptions or safe harbor provisions.
12. MKC, MAM, and all of their existing and future affiliates and subsidiaries are prohibited from creating, offering or selling a proprietary fund
3
that is a registered investment
 
 
company and is marketed and sold to investors other than institutional and other qualified investors as defined in Section 3(a)(54) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.  78c(a)(54), ("proprietary fund") for a period of two (2) years from the entry of the first of the State Consent Orders to be entered in this matter. MKC, MAM, their affiliates or subsidiaries, may seek permission to resume offering or begin offering a proprietary fund in Kentucky after the lapse of the first year of the prohibition, but may not proceed with the offer and sale of such proprietary fund in Kentucky prior to receiving the express written consent and approval of the Commissioner of the DFI.
13. In addition to any state regulatory audits or examinations authorized by KRS 292.336, the DFI may conduct appropriate audits or examinations of the offices and branch offices of the Respondents MKC and MAM. Appropriate costs associated with such audits or examinations conducted within two (2) years from the date of this Consent Order, shall be borne by MKC and/or MAM. This provision in no way limits the assessment of costs by states which routinely assess registrants with the costs of audits.
14. If prior to January 1, 2016, MKC and/or MAM shall again form and sell any proprietary investment products
4
, they shall at that time retain, for a period of three (3) years, at their own expense, an independent auditor, acceptable to the representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Tennessee, and South Carolina ("States'
 
 
Representative") and the SEC. The independent auditor cannot be an affiliated entity of MKC or MAM. Further, to ensure the independence of the independent auditor, MKC and/or MAM: (a) shall not have the authority to terminate the independent auditor without prior written approval of the States' Representative; (b) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client relationship with the independent auditor and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other privilege or doctrine to prevent the independent auditor from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the States; and (c) during the period of engagement and for a period of two (2) years after the engagement, shall not enter into any employment, customer, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with the independent auditor.
The scope of the independent auditor's engagement shall be approved by the States' Representative prior to the commencement of the audit, and shall include, but is not limited to, reviews and examinations of:
 
 
 
 
 
15. Further, the independent auditor shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. MKC and MAM shall:
 
 
 
 
 
17. MKC and MAM shall retain within sixty (60) days of the entry of this Consent Order, at their own expense, an independent consultant ("Consultant"), acceptable to the States' representative, and the SEC. The Consultant shall review MKC's and/or MAM's: (i) current written supervisory and compliance procedures concerning product suitability; (ii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures regarding recommendations and disclosures relating to registered investment companies; (iii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures relating to advertising and sales literature regarding the purchase and sale of registered investment companies; and (iv) the implementation and effectiveness of (i) through (iii); provided that the lookback period for (i) through (iii) shall not exceed the twelve month period prior to the entry of this Consent Order.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. MKC and MAM shall provide, for a period of three (3) years, to all of their registered agents and investment adviser representatives mandatory, comprehensive, and ongoing (i) product/offering training on each of the proprietary products/offerings that they sell or recommend to clients, and (ii) training on suitability and risks of investments generally. The training required pursuant to this paragraph shall be in addition to any continuing education training required to maintain the registrations of the registered agents and investment adviser representatives and shall include, at a minimum, training on all of the following:
 
 
 
 
19. For training related to proprietary products/offerings, MKC and MAM shall develop and implement course evaluations to be completed by each FA in order to assess the effectiveness of the training.
20. MKC and MAM shall;
 
 
 
 
 
 
21. One person shall not simultaneously hold the positions of General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer for either Respondent.
22. Nothing herein shall preclude the state of Kentucky, its departments, agencies, boards, commissions, authorities, political subdivisions, and corporations (collectively "State Entities"), other than the DFI and only to the extent set forth herein, from asserting any claims, causes of action, or applications for compensatory, nominal and/or punitive damages, administrative, civil, criminal, or injunctive relief against MKC and MAM in connection with the marketing and sales practices of the Funds at MKC or MAM.
23. Any dispute or default other than related to payments as referenced in paragraph 10 related to this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Kentucky without regard to any choice of law principles.
24. Unless otherwise stipulated, the parties intend that the monies allocated through the SEC's Fair Fund and/or the States' Fund, including the monies allocated pursuant to this Consent Order, to the investors of any given State will be treated as an offset against any order
 
for MKC, MAM or Kelsoe, or any of them, to pay any amount (whether designated as restitution, fines or otherwise compensatory in nature) in any action brought by that State or any of the regulatory agencies thereof and not concluded by this Consent Order . Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as delineated in paragraphs 44 through 46, this Consent Order is presumed to be treated as a settlement for evidentiary purposes not as evidence of either damage or liability itself. MKC and MAM further agree that in the event they should enter into a consent order prior to an adjudication on the merits with another State's securities regulator which provides each investor a higher return of losses per invested dollar than under the terms of this Consent Order, then the DFI may, at its option, obtain the same payout of losses per invested dollar for the investors of this State.
25. Respondents MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe agree not to make or permit to be made any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any finding in this Order or creating the impression that this Order is without factual basis. Nothing in this Paragraph affects MKC's, MAM's, or Kelsoe's: (i) testimonial obligations, or (ii) right to take legal or factual positions in defense of litigation or arbitration or in defense of other legal proceedings in which the DFI is not a party.
26. In connection with any action by the DFI against Sullivan, Wood, or Stringer, MKC and MAM will produce, upon reasonable notice but without service of a subpoena, any and all documents and other information requested by the DFI, and make available witnesses under their control for any further testimony, investigations, administrative proceedings or hearings and shall cooperate fully in any and all current or future administrative proceedings against those parties. If any documents or other information requested is claimed as "privileged", Respondents shall provide a "privilege log" and any further dispute concerning
 
production of said document(s) shall be submitted to a hearing officer under applicable state rules or procedures for final determination. Nothing herein shall affect any statutory authority of the DFI, including but not limited to, inspections, visits, examinations, and/or the production of documents.
27. This Consent Order shall be binding upon MKC and MAM, and their successors and assigns, with respect to all conduct subject to the provisions above and all future obligations, responsibilities, undertakings, commitments, limitations, restrictions, events, and conditions.
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
 
CONSENT TO ENTRY OF ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER BY MORGAN ASSET
MANAGEMENT, INC. AND MORGAN KEEGAN & COMPANY, INC.
Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("Respondents") hereby acknowledge that they have been served with a copy of this Administrative Consent Order ("Order"), have read the foregoing Order, are aware of each of their right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and have waived the same.
Respondents admit the jurisdiction of the DFI; admit to the allegations in paragraphs 44 to 46 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding; and Respondents further consent to entry of this Order by the DFI as settlement of the issues contained in this Order.
Respondents enter into this Order voluntarily and represent that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the DFI or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the DFI to induce Respondents to enter into this Order other than as set forth in the Order.
represents that he/she is of Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Asset Management, Inc. to enter into this Order for and on behalf of Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
                     
                    
represents that he/she is of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. to enter into this Order for and on behalf of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
                     
                    
 
Respondents agree that they shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of Kentucky for any monetary penalty or restitution that Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Order. Respondents understand and acknowledge that these provisions are not intended to imply that the DFI would agree that any other amounts Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                
        
 
My commission expires:
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                
        
 
My commission expires:
 
 
 
CONSENT TO ENTRY OF ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER BY
JAMES C. KELSOE, JR.
James C. Kelsoe, Jr. ("Individual Respondent") hereby acknowledges that he has been served with a copy of this Consent Order ("Consent Order"), has read the foregoing Consent Order, is aware of his right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and has waived the same.
Individual Respondent admits for settlement purposes the jurisdiction of the DFI; but otherwise neither admits nor denies any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this Consent Order; and Individual Respondent further consents to entry of this Consent Order by the DFI as settlement of the issues contained in this Consent Order.
Individual Respondent enters into this Consent Order voluntarily and represents that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the DFI or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the DFI to induce Individual Respondent to enter into this Consent Order.
Individual Respondent agrees, if applicable, that he shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of Kentucky, for any monetary penalty that Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order. Individual Respondent understands and acknowledges that these provisions are not intended to imply that the DFI would agree that any other amounts Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
 
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                
        
 
My commission expires:
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
WHEREAS, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("MKC") is a broker-dealer in the state of Mississippi; and
WHEREAS, Morgan Asset Management, Inc. ("MAM") is an affiliate of MKC and notice-filed as an investment adviser in the state of Mississippi; and
WHEREAS, James C. Kelsoe, Jr. (hereinafter, sometimes referred to as "Kelsoe" or the "Individual Respondent") was, at relevant times, employed by MAM and registered through MKC,; and
WHEREAS, coordinated investigations into the activities of MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe, in connection with certain violations of the Mississippi Securities Act, Mississippi Code 75-71-101, et. seq. and the rules promulgated thereunder ("Act") and certain business practices, have been conducted by a multistate task force ("Task Force") and an additional investigation has been conducted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) (collectively, the "Regulators"); and
WHEREAS, MKC and MAM have cooperated with the Task Force conducting the investigations by responding to inquiries, providing documentary evidence and other materials, and providing Regulators with access to facts relating to the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent have advised the Regulators of their agreement to resolve the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent elect to permanently waive any right to a hearing and appeal under the Act, with respect to this Administrative Consent Order (the "Consent Order"); and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent admit the jurisdictional allegations herein, and MKC and MAM admit to the allegations in paragraphs 39 to 41 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but MAM, MKC, and Kelsoe ("Respondents") otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Securities and Charities Division of the Mississippi Secretary of State ("Division"), as administrator of the Act, hereby enters this Consent Order:
1. Respondent ("MKC") (CRD No. 4161), a Tennessee corporation, is a registered broker-dealer with the Division and the SEC, as well as a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC. At all relevant times MKC was properly registered and notice filed with the Division. MKC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation ("RFC") which is headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. MKC's primary business address is 50 Front Street, Morgan Keegan Tower, Memphis, Tennessee 38103-9980.
Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
 
2. Respondent ("MAM"), a Tennessee corporation, is a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC (CRD No. 111715) and at all relevant times was properly notice filed with the Division. MAM is a wholly owned subsidiary of MK Holding, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of RFC. MAM is headquartered in Alabama with a principal business address of 1901 6
Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
th
Avenue North, 4
th
Floor, Birmingham, Alabama 35203.
3. ("WMS"), a division of MKC, developed, recommended, and implemented asset allocation strategies for MKC and was to perform due diligence on traditional and alternative funds and fund managers for the benefit of MKC, its Financial Advisers (alternatively referred to as "FAs", "sales force" or "agents"), and certain investor clients.
Wealth Management Services
4. ("Kelsoe") (CRD No. 2166416) was Senior Portfolio Manager of the Funds, as defined in paragraph II.5 below, and was responsible for selecting and purchasing the holdings for the Funds. Kelsoe was an employee of MAM and registered through MKC.
James C. Kelsoe, Jr.
5. The seven (7) funds at issue are Regions Morgan Keegan Select Intermediate Bond Fund ("Intermediate Bond Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Select High Income Fund ("Select High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Advantage Income Fund ("Advantage Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan High Income Fund ("High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Multi-Sector High Income Fund ("Multi-Sector High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Strategic Income Fund ("Strategic Income Fund"), and Regions Morgan Keegan Select Short Term Bond Fund ("Short Term Bond Fund") (collectively, the "Funds").
 
6. Six (6) of the seven (7) Funds were largely invested in mezzanine and lower subordinated "tranches," or slices, of structured debt instruments, which carry more risk than the senior tranches.
1
The Funds were comprised of many of the same holdings. On June 30, 2007, approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the holdings of the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund were substantially identical. Approximately one quarter (1/4) of the Intermediate Bond Fund's holdings corresponded to the holdings of the five (5) high yield Funds. The Funds were highly correlated, meaning they behaved like each other under similar market conditions. The combination of subordinated tranche holdings and the high correlation of the Funds caused investors owning more than one (1) of these funds to have a heightened risk of over concentration.
7. The Funds were created and managed by Kelsoe, MAM Senior portfolio manager. Kelsoe was also principally responsible for the purchase and sale of all of the holdings in the Funds.
8. When WMS ceased reporting and dropped its coverage of the Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund in July 2007, it failed to announce the drop in coverage in writing until November, 2007. WMS did not publish a withdrawal of its prior analysis or recommend the Funds' replacement.
9. On January 19, 2007, WMS announced it was reclassifying the Intermediate Bond Fund on the Select List from "Fixed Income" to "Non-Traditional Fixed Income." Meanwhile, WMS profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund continued to label it as the "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond."
 
 
10. Certain of the Funds' disclosures did not adequately disclose the risks of subordinated tranches and the quantity of subordinated tranches held within the Funds:
a. MAM produced quarterly glossies for all seven (7) Funds. In the glossies, MAM did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
b. MKC, through WMS, produced quarterly Fund Profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund, the Select High Income Fund, and the Short Term Bond Fund that did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
11. In SEC filings and state notice filings of March and June 2007 involving the Funds, Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000.00) of what MAM characterized as corporate bonds and preferred stocks were, in fact, the lower, subordinated tranches of asset-backed structured debt instruments. MAM eventually reclassified certain of these structured debt instruments in the March 2008 Form N-Q Holdings Report for the three (3) open-end funds.
12. In SEC filings, MAM compared the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund (collectively the "RMK high-yield funds"), which contained approximately two-thirds (2/3) structured debt instruments, to the Lehman Brothers U.S. High Yield Index ("Lehman Ba Index"). The Lehman Ba Index is not directly comparable to the RMK high-yield funds given the fact that the Lehman Ba Index contained only corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments.
13. Certain marketing materials and reports minimized the risks and volatility associated with investing in funds largely comprised of structured debt instruments. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and in previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, MAM and MKC marketed
 
the Intermediate Bond Fund as a fund appropriate for "Capital Preservation & Income." MAM later revised the Intermediate Bond Fund glossy in September 2007 by removing the caption "Capital Preservation & Income" and replacing it with "Income & Growth," and by removing the word "stability," which had previously been used to describe the fund.
14. The Intermediate Bond Fund glossies dated June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007, stated that the Intermediate Bond Fund "does not invest in speculative derivatives." However, the Intermediate Bond Fund did use derivatives, including interest-only strips, and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), which are derived from the mezzanine and lower tranches of other debt securities.
15. Respondent MKC through WMS labeled the Intermediate Bond Fund with varying names. None of the three labels  "Taxable Fixed Income", "Enhanced Low-Correlation" and "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond" used by MKC adequately portrayed the nature of the Intermediate Bond Fund, of which approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the portfolio was invested in the mezzanine or lower subordinated tranches of structured debt instruments. The label "Gov't/Corp Bond," which first appeared on the December 31, 2006 profile sheet, was never changed after that date.
A.
SUPERVISION AND SUPERVISORY DUE DILIGENCE
16. During the period January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, preceding the collapse of the subprime market, MAM made 262 downward price adjustments for the purpose of adjusting the net asset value ("NAV") of the Funds. Certain of these downward adjustments were not necessarily reflective of the portfolio securities' actual fair value. In some instances, MAM's communications led MKC, through its sales force, to actively discourage investors from selling the Fundseven while fund prices continued to decline  by advising investors to "hold
 
the course." Some members of MKC, MAM, and their management personnel continued during this period to advise FAs and investors to buy the Funds through, , statements that characterized the decline as "a buying opportunity."
inter alia
17. MKC and MAM failed to adequately supervise the flow of information to the MKC sales force concerning the Funds. For example, in conference calls with the sales force, the portfolio manager for the Funds cited sub-prime fears and liquidity as the primary factors for a decline in the net asset value of the Funds without fully explaining the market impact on certain securities held by the Funds.
18. WMS did not complete a thorough annual due diligence report of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in 2007. A fixed income analyst for WMS, attempted to complete an annual due diligence review of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in the summer of 2007, but was unsuccessful due to Kelsoe's and MAM's failure to provide sufficient information and Kelsoe's failure to be available for a meeting during normal operating hours. Subsequently, WMS failed to notify the MKC sales force of WMS's failure to complete the annual on-site due diligence review. An incomplete draft of WMS's annual due diligence report for internal use only was submitted by the WMS analyst, but it was neither completed nor released to the sales force.
19. On July 31, 2007, WMS dropped coverage of all proprietary products, which included the funds for which WMS could not produce a thorough report. This fact was not disclosed in writing to the sales force until November 2007.
20. Based on WMS's one (1) page, one (1) paragraph report of the August 18, 2006 on-site due diligence review, the due diligence visits by the WMS fixed income analysts were not "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive," as advertised by MKC. There are two (2) WMS
 
profiles of the Intermediate Bond Fund dated September 30, 2006. The sections titled "investment philosophy" in the profile sheets contain substantial differences. Previous and subsequent quarterly profiles do not refer to any of the holdings as "inferior tranches." Neither do they mention potential lack of demand and lack of liquidity. Further, they include the statement that "The fund does not use derivatives or leverage."
21. WMS's changing of the Intermediate Bond Fund profile label indicated WMS's inability and lack of supervision in the creation of these marketing pieces to accurately categorize the Intermediate Bond Fund. Within one (1) quarter, WMS identified the Intermediate Bond Fund three (3) different ways:
September 30, 2006 - Taxable Fixed Income
September 30, 2006 - Enhanced Low Correlations Fixed Income
December 31, 2006 - Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond
22. The "Gov't/Corp Bond" label implied that the Intermediate Bond Fund holdings were predominately government and corporate bonds carrying a certain degree of safety. This improper labeling indicates a failure to conduct proper due diligence, a duty of MKC.
23. In addition, all profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund from March 31, 2006, through June 30, 2007, stated that Kelsoe was joined by Rip Mecherle ("Mecherle") as assistant portfolio manager. Mecherle left MAM in 2004. The failure to detect the errors in promotional materials relating to management does not reflect the "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive due diligence" claimed by MKC in its sales and promotional material distributed to investors.
B.
SUITABILITY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
24. Respondent MAM indicated that risks and volatility were minimized in the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, Respondents marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund's broad diversification of asset classes three (3) times on the first page of each of the glossies, when in fact, approximately
 
two-thirds (2/3) of the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio was composed of structured debt instruments which included risky assets. The four (4) closed-end funds also advertised diversification among asset classes, despite the similarities in asset classes as set forth in Section C below.
25. Furthermore, the glossies emphasized the Select High Income Fund's net asset value as being less volatile than typical high-yield funds. The glossies failed to state that a reason for any lower volatility was that the structured debt instruments within the Select High Income Fund were not actively traded, and that the daily fair value adjustments of certain holdings were imprecise in a market that became illiquid.
26. In certain cases, MKC and its sales force failed to obtain adequate suitability information regarding risk tolerance that was necessary to determine suitability for using the Funds for regular brokerage account customers. New account forms for regular brokerage accounts provided a menu of four (4) investment objectives to choose from: Growth, Income, Speculation, and Tax-Advantaged. Risk tolerance was not addressed by the form, was not noted by the sales force whose records were examined during the investigation, and may not have been taken into consideration when the sales force made its recommendations.
27. In at least one instance, an agent of MKC provided a customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
 
C.
ADVERTISEMENTS BY RESPONDENTS
28. Marketing glossies prepared by MAM for the Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund contained allocation pie charts dividing the categories of holdings by percentages of the total portfolio. Between June 2004 and March 2005, the pie charts for both funds changed significantly: MAM divided the category originally titled "asset-backed securities" into multiple categories. These changes indicated that the holdings of these Funds were more diversified than they actually were because the majority of the portfolios continued to be invested in asset-backed securities. Further, in the glossies, MAM did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29. The pie charts in the glossies for the High Income Fund were also changed in a similar manner between June 2004 and March 2005.
30. Similar changes were also made to pie charts in glossies for the Advantage Income Fund and the Strategic Income Fund between December 2004 and March 2005.
 
31. Respondent MKC used different index comparisons in the Select High Income Fund "Profile" sheets produced by WMS. These profile sheets compared the Select High Income Fund to the Credit Suisse First Boston High Yield Index, as well as the Merrill Lynch US High Yield Cash BB Index. These two indices only contain corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments. The Select High Income Fund contained substantially different risks than the portfolios within either of the two indices, and therefore these benchmarks were not directly comparable.
D.
REQUIRED EXAMINATIONS OF CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS TO DETECT AND PREVENT IRREGULARITIES OR ABUSES
32. While the models for WMS managed accounts limited the use of the Intermediate Bond Fund to certain percentages, usually no more than fifteen percent (15%) of any client's portfolio, there was no such limitation for non-managed accounts. Additionally, no guidance was provided to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of the Intermediate Bond Fund in non-managed accounts. As a result, certain customer accounts contained in excess of a twenty percent (20%) concentration of the Intermediate Bond Fund.
33. The four closed-end funds, the Select High Income Fund and the Intermediate Bond Fund were all highly correlated. However, none of the FAs interviewed by the Task Force indicated that MKC provided specific guidance regarding limiting concentrations of combinations of the Funds in non-managed accounts.
34. Up until six (6) months before the collapse of the fund, WMS classified the Intermediate Bond Fund as "Core Plus" in the Fixed Income section of the Select List. At that time it was reclassified as "Alternative Fixed Income" in the Non-Traditional section of the Select List. Yet MKC's concentration for many of its non-WMS managed accounts continued to
 
be above twenty percent (20%) which could indicate its use as a core holding. An e-mail chain from Gary S. Stringer of WMS states as follows:
Stringer Gary [Gary.Stringer@morgankeegan.com]
From:
Tuesday, May 15, 2007 4:10 PM
Sent:
Hennek, Roderick
To:
Re: RMK Intermediate Bond Fund
Subject:
Rod,
I did notice that you didn't cc anyone on your email, and I appreciate that. We've always had good, candid conversation.
You have a good point in that we have some low correlation equity strategies on the Traditional side. What worries me about this bond fund is the tracking error and the potential risks associated with all that asset-backed exposure. They think the return are great because the PM is so smart. He definitely is smart, but it's the same as thinking your small cap manager is a hero because he beat the S&P for the last 5 years.
Mr & Mrs Jones don't expect that kind of risk from their bond funds. The bond exposure is not supposed to be where you take risks. I'd bet that most of the people who hold that fund have no idea what's it's actually invested in. I'm just as sure that most of our FAs have no idea what's in that fund either.
If people are using RMK as their core, or only bond fund, I think it's only a matter of time before we have some very unhappy investors.
(Emphasis added.).
Certain MKC brokers and branch managers interviewed during the investigation stated that they received limited or no guidance as to appropriate concentrations of the Funds to use within clients' accounts.
E.
REQUIREMENT TO CONDUCT AN ADEQUATE AND THOROUGH CORRESPONDENCE REVIEW
35. An agent of MKC provided one known customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
36. The MKC agent referred to in the preceding paragraph created a sales illustration in which he compared the returns for the Intermediate Bond Fund to the returns for traditional bank CDs. The agent used the illustration in order to market the Intermediate Bond Fund to bank
 
customers. The agent stated that he created the illustration and that the illustration was not reviewed or approved by appropriate supervisory personnel of MKC. The chart fails to address any risks of investing in the Intermediate Bond Fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
F.
SUPERVISION
37. Carter Anthony, President of MAM from 2001 until the end of 2006, has testified under oath that he conducted performance reviews of all MAM mutual fund managers that included reviews of their portfolios and trading. However, he testified that he did not conduct the same supervisory review and oversight of Kelsoe and the Funds because he was instructed to "leave Kelsoe alone." MAM denies that any such instruction was given.
38. In December 2001, Kelsoe signed a new account form as branch manager, when he, in fact, was never a branch manager nor held any supervisory/compliance licenses. Proper supervision of Kelsoe's activities would have detected such an unauthorized action on his part.
G.
MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED BOOKS AND RECORDS
39. MAM's Fund Management fundamental and qualitative research was touted in marketing and research material.
40. MAM, through its Portfolio Managers, selected securities for investments by the Funds' portfolios. MAM was consulted regarding the fair valuation of certain securities held by the portfolios. Adequate documentation was not retained as to pricing adjustments recommended by MAM to be made to certain of the securities.
41. WMS performed annual due diligence reviews of certain of the Funds and Fund management (MAM and Kelsoe). In mid-2007, MAM and Kelsoe did not provide sufficient information to allow completion of the 2007 annual due diligence review conducted by MKC through WMS. Kelsoe did not make himself available for a meeting during normal operating hours, further delaying the completion of WMS's on-site due diligence review. As a
 
consequence, the report for two of the open-end funds was not completed. By August 2007, WMS dropped coverage of proprietary products and a report for 2007 was never released to the MKC sales force.
H.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT OF JAMES KELSOE
42. In addition to his duties regarding management of the Funds and selection of investments, Kelsoe was responsible for reviewing information regarding holdings of the Funds to be included in marketing materials and filings with the SEC. Kelsoe also was responsible for supervising his staff's involvement with these processes, as well as their interaction with third parties. Kelsoe had the most knowledge at MAM about the nature of the holdings of the Funds, including the types of securities being purchased or sold for the Funds, the risks associated with the holdings, and the correlation of the holdings among the Funds. Kelsoe and his staff provided information for the preparation of regulatory filings, marketing materials, reports and communications about the Funds. Kelsoe contributed to and delivered commentaries for the Funds and management discussions of fund performance. The SEC filings for the Funds, for which Kelsoe and his staff furnished information regarding holdings of each of the Funds, were provided to Kelsoe for his review prior to filing.
43. Kelsoe contributed to and was aware of the usage of the glossies and certain other marketing materials prepared by MAM for the Funds, as described above, including the descriptions of the Funds, the allocation pie charts, the use of benchmarks, and characterizations of risks and features of the Funds.
44. Kelsoe's involvement in the fair valuation process for securities held by the Funds during the period from January 1, 2007 to July 31, 2007, including influencing some
 
dealer confirmations, contributed to certain inaccurate valuations of selected holdings on various dates during that period.
45. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe did not retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds. These recommendations were used on occasion in the calculation of the daily net asset values of the Funds.
46. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe failed to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain MKC FAs.
1. The Division is responsible for the enforcement of laws governing the issuance, sale, and other transactions relative to securities pursuant to Miss. Code  75-71-101, et. seq. (2000) and the rules promulgated thereunder.
2. In violation of the Act, MKC and/or MAM conducted and participated in the following practices:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. In violation of the Act, MKC and/or MAM failed to reasonably supervise their agents, employees and associated persons in the following manner:
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. In violation of the Act, MKC and/or MAM failed to make suitable recommendations to some investors as demonstrated by the following:
 
 
 
 
5. In violation of the Act, MKC failed to enforce their supervisory procedures in the following manner:
 
 
6. In violation of the Act, MKC and/or MAM in many instances failed to review correspondence and marketing materials used by associated persons to sell the Funds:
 
 
 
7. In violation of the Act, in certain cases, MAM and MKC inappropriately recommended the purchase of the Funds for client portfolios without reasonable justification that said recommendation was suitable for the client.
8. In violation of the Act, MKC distributed marketing materials and MAM distributed disclosure materials that were inaccurate:
 
 
 
 
 
9. In violation of the Act, Kelsoe failed to retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds.
10. In violation of the Act, Kelsoe contributed to and was aware certain marketing materials prepared by MAM for the Funds did not adequately disclose certain risks and did not adequately describe certain features of the Funds.
11. In violation of the Act, Kelsoe failed to reasonably supervise his staff by failing to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain Morgan Keegan Financial Advisors.
12. In further violation of the Act, Kelsoe participated in the advertising and supervisory violations set forth above.
13. As a result of the foregoing, the Division finds this Consent Order and the following relief appropriate and in the public interest, and consistent with the Act.
On the basis of the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and MKC's, MAM's and Kelsoe's consents to the entry of this Order,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:
1. Entry of this Consent Order concludes the investigation by the Division and any other action that the Division could commence under applicable Mississippi law on behalf of the
 
Division as it relates to Kelsoe, MKC and MAM, any of their affiliates, and any of their past or present employees or other agents in any way relating to the Funds, and acceptance by the Division of the settlement offer and payments referenced in this Consent Order shall be in satisfaction of and preclude any action that the Division could commence under applicable Mississippi law against the foregoing; provided however, that excluded from and not covered by this paragraph are (a) individual sales practice violations that could have been brought even had the violations asserted herein against MKC, MAM, or Kelsoe not occurred, and (b) any claims by the Division arising from or relating to violations of the provisions contained in this Consent Order. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Division from opposing a request for expungement by a past or present employee or other agent before a regulatory or self-regulatory entity, any court of competent jurisdiction, or any hearing officer, under circumstances it deems appropriate. Any and all claims and actions against Brian B. Sullivan ("Sullivan"), Gary S. Stringer ("Stringer"), and/or Michele F. Wood ("Wood") are specifically excluded from this order and are not included in this settlement.
2. This Consent Order is entered into for the purpose of resolving in full the referenced multistate investigation with respect to Respondents who have executed this Consent Order and any of their affiliates, as such investigation relates to the allegations of the Joint Notice of Intent to Revoke Registration. This Consent Order does not nullify, dismiss, impact, or otherwise affect investigations or proceedings as to any individual or person who is not a party or an affiliate of said party to this Consent Order.
3. The findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order contained in this Consent Order have been extensively negotiated. This Consent Order is a negotiated resolution of claims by the Division as to MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe and no party hereto concedes the validity or
 
invalidity of the factual allegations and conclusions of law contained in the Notice of Intent. This Consent Order shall not be admissible as evidence of any alleged violations in any proceeding brought by Regulators against the remaining individual respondents, Sullivan, Stringer and Wood.
4. MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe will CEASE AND DESIST from violating the Act, and will comply with the Act.
5. Pursuant to this Mississippi Consent Order (File No. S-08-0050) and related Consent Orders of the States of Alabama (SC-2010-0016), Tennessee (Docket No.: 12.06-107077J/Order No. 11-005), South Carolina (File No.: 08011) and Kentucky (Agency Case No.: 2010-AH-021/Administrative Action No.: 10-PPC0267), the offer of settlement in SEC Administrative Proceeding (File No. 3-13847) (the "SEC Order") and the FINRA Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent No. 2007011164502, MKC and MAM shall pay in resolution of all of these matters, within ten (10) days of the entry of the SEC Order the sum of Two Hundred Million Dollars ($200,000,000.00) to be distributed as follows: 1) One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000.00) to the SEC's Fair Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of the SEC Order; and 2) One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000.00) to a States' Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of this Consent Order. Any costs, expenses, and charges associated with the Fair Fund and States' Fund management and distributions shall be paid by MKC and MAM and shall not diminish the fund corpus. The Fair Fund and the State's Fund shall be distributed pursuant to distribution plans drawn up by the administrator(s) ("Fair Fund Administrator" for the SEC's portion and "Fund Administrator" for the States' portion). The administrator(s) are to be respectively chosen by a representative designated by
 
the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Tennessee, South Carolina, and Mississippi ("States' Fund Representative"), and the SEC. Nothing in this paragraph shall require or limit the SEC's and the States' choice of fund administrators which may or may not be the same entity or person for both funds. Respondents shall pay the sum of One Million, Three Hundred Seventy Nine Thousand Dollars ($1,379,000.00) to the Division as reimbursement of direct and indirect costs and expenses of the State's cost for investigating this matter, which payable as follows: a check made payable to the "Mississippi Secretary of State  Securities Enforcement Fund  3114."
6. MKC and MAM shall pay the sum of Six Hundred Six Thousand, One Hundred Thirty Four Dollars $606,134.00 to the Division as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of Mississippi's share of the state settlement amount of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000.00), which shall be payable as follows: a check made payable to the "Mississippi Secretary of State  Securities Enforcement Fund  3114." All funds shall be delivered to the office of the Division within ten (10) days of the SEC Order or ten (10) days from entry of this Order, whichever is later. In the event another state securities regulator determines not to accept the settlement offer, the total amount of the payment to the State of Mississippi shall not be affected.
7. MKC and MAM shall also pay the sum of Twenty-three Thousand Dollars ($23,000.00) to the North American Securities Administrators Association ("NASAA") as reimbursement for its costs, expended on states behalf.
8. Kelsoe shall cause to be paid the sum of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) to the Division as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of Mississippi's proportionate share of the state settlement amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000.00), which shall be payable as follows: a check made payable to the "Mississippi
 
Secretary of State  Securities Enforcement Fund  3114." All funds shall be delivered to the office of the Division within ten (10) days of the later of the execution of this Consent Order or the date on which the SEC Order is entered. Acceptance of the settlement offer and the payment referenced above in this paragraph by the Division shall be in full satisfaction of and preclude any action that the Division could commence under applicable law against Kelsoe related in any way to his management of the Funds, and otherwise disposes of claims against Kelsoe as set forth in this Order.
9. As additional consideration for the dismissal of the administrative proceeding by the Division, Kelsoe does hereby acknowledge the SEC's entry of an Order of Permanent Bar. In addition, he agrees that he shall not apply for registration as an issuer agent, broker-dealer agent or investment adviser representative in the State of Mississippi. Nor shall he serve as an officer, director, or manager of, or issuer of interests in, a mutual fund, money market fund, pooled-investments or similar securities and investment vehicles which are publicly offered or sold in the State of Mississippi.
10. If any payments are not made by MKC, MAM, or on behalf of Kelsoe, the Division may vacate this Consent Order, at its sole discretion, upon thirty (30) days notice to MKC and/or MAM, or as appropriate, Kelsoe, and, without opportunity for an administrative hearing, enter a final order or decree if such default is not cured to the satisfaction of the regulators within the thirty (30) day notice period. Any dispute related to any payments required under this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Mississippi without regard to any choice of law principles.
11. This Consent Order shall not disqualify MKC and MAM, or any of their affiliates or registered representatives from any business that they otherwise are qualified or licensed to
 
perform under any applicable state law and is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualification or suspension in any state. Further, this Consent Order is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualifications contained in the federal securities law, the rules and regulations thereunder, the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations, or various states' securities laws including but not limited to any disqualifications from relying upon the registration exemptions or safe harbor provisions.
12. MKC, MAM, and all of their existing and future affiliates and subsidiaries are prohibited from creating, offering or selling a proprietary product that is a registered investment company and is marketed and sold to investors other than institutional and other qualified investors as defined in Section 3(a)(54) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.  78c(a)(54), ("proprietary product") for a period of two (2) years from the entry of the initial Order. MKC, MAM, their affiliates or subsidiaries, may seek permission to resume offering or begin offering a proprietary fund in Mississippi after the lapse of the first year of the prohibition, but may not proceed with the offer and sale of such proprietary fund in Mississippi prior to receiving the express written consent and approval of the Administrator of the Division.
13. State Regulatory Audits or Examinations as authorized by the Act. In addition to any state regulatory audits or examinations authorized by State statute, the state regulatory authority may conduct appropriate audits or examinations of the offices and branch offices of the Respondents MKC and MAM. Appropriate costs associated with such audits or examinations conducted within two (2) years from the date of this Consent Order, shall be borne by MKC and/or MAM. This provision in no way limits the assessment of costs by states which routinely assess registrants with the costs of audits.
 
14. If prior to January 1, 2016, MKC and/or MAM shall again form and sell any proprietary investment products
2
, they shall at that time retain, for a period of three (3) years, at their own expense, an independent auditor, acceptable to the representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Tennessee, and South Carolina ("States' Representative") and the SEC. The independent auditor cannot be an affiliated entity of MKC or MAM. Further, to ensure the independence of the independent auditor, MKC and/or MAM: (a) shall not have the authority to terminate the independent auditor without prior written approval of the States' Representative; (b) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client relationship with the independent auditor and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other privilege or doctrine to prevent the independent auditor from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the States; and (c) during the period of engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement, shall not enter into any employment, customer, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with the independent auditor.
The scope of the independent auditor's engagement shall be approved by the States' Representative prior to the commencement of the audit, and shall include, but is not limited to, reviews and examinations of:
 
 
 
 
 
15. Further, the independent auditor shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. MKC and MAM shall:
 
 
 
 
17. MKC and MAM shall retain within sixty (60) days of the entry of this Consent Order, at their own expense, an independent consultant ("Consultant"), acceptable to the States' Representative, and the SEC. The Consultant shall review MKC's and/or MAM's: (i) current written supervisory and compliance procedures concerning product suitability; (ii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures regarding recommendations and disclosures relating to registered investment companies; (iii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures relating to advertising and sales literature regarding the purchase and sale of registered investment companies; and (iv) the implementation and effectiveness of (i) through (iii); provided that the lookback period for (a) through (c) shall not exceed the twelve month period prior to the entry of this Consent Order.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. MKC and MAM shall provide, for a period of three (3) years, to all of their registered agents and investment adviser representatives mandatory, comprehensive, and ongoing (i) product/offering training on each of the proprietary products/offerings that they sell or recommend to clients, and (ii) training on suitability and risks of investments generally. The training required pursuant to this paragraph shall be in addition to any continuing education training required to maintain the registrations of the registered agents and investment adviser representatives and shall include, at a minimum, training on all of the following:
 
 
 
 
19. For training related to proprietary products/offerings, MKC and MAM shall develop and implement course evaluations to be completed by each FA in order to assess the effectiveness of the training.
20. MKC and MAM shall;
 
 
 
 
 
 
21. One person shall not simultaneously hold the positions of General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer for either Respondent.
22. Nothing herein shall preclude the State of Mississippi, its departments, agencies, boards, commissions, authorities, political subdivisions, and corporations (collectively "State Entities"), other than the Division and only to the extent set forth herein, from asserting any claims, causes of action, or applications for compensatory, nominal and/or punitive damages,
 
administrative, civil, criminal, or injunctive relief against MKC and MAM in connection with the marketing and sales practices of the Funds at MKC or MAM.
23. Any dispute or default other than related to payments as referenced in paragraph 10 related to this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Mississippi without regard to any choice of law principles
24. Respondents MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe agree not to make or permit to be made any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any finding in this Consent Order or creating the impression that this Consent Order is without factual basis. Nothing in this paragraph affects MKC's, MAM's, or Kelsoe's: (i) testimonial obligations, or (ii) right to take legal or factual positions in defense of litigation or arbitration or in defense of other legal proceedings in which the Division is not a party.
25. In connection with any action by the Division against Sullivan, Wood, or Stringer, MKC and MAM will produce, upon reasonable notice but without service of a subpoena, any and all documents and other information requested by the Division, and make available witnesses under their control for any further testimony, investigations, administrative proceedings or hearings and shall cooperate fully in any and all current or future administrative proceedings against those parties. If any documents or other information requested is claimed as "privileged", Respondents shall provide a "privilege log" and any further dispute concerning production of said document(s) shall be submitted to a hearing officer under applicable state rules or procedures for final determination. Upon reasonable notice to his counsel, Peter J. Anderson, Esq. of the specific date on which testimony is requested, and granting reasonable accommodation to Kelsoe for travel schedule and timing of testimony, Kelsoe shall testify in connection with any action by the Division against Sullivan, Stringer, and/or Wood. Nothing
 
herein shall affect any statutory authority of the Division, including but not limited to, inspections, visits, examinations, and/or the production of documents
26. This Consent Order shall be binding upon MKC, and MAM, Kelsoe, and their successors and assigns, with respect to all conduct subject to the provisions above and all future obligations, responsibilities, undertakings, commitments, limitations, restrictions, events, and conditions, except as otherwise provided herein. This provision shall not apply to Paragraph 18 of Section IV in the event of an acquisition, merger or any other form of business combination in which an unrelated entity acquires more than 50% of the outstanding stock or assets of MKC or MAM.
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
 
Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("Respondents") hereby acknowledge that they have been served with a copy of this Administrative Consent Order ("Order"), have read the foregoing Order, are aware of each of their right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and have waived the same.
Respondents admit the jurisdiction of the Division; admit to the allegations in paragraphs 39 to 41 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding; and Respondents further consent to entry of this Order by the Division as settlement of the issues contained in this Order.
Respondents enter into this Order voluntarily and represent that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the Division or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the Division to induce Respondents to enter into this Order other than as set forth in the Order.
represents that he/she is of Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Asset Management, Inc. to enter into this Order for and on behalf of Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
                                     
                                    
represents that he/she is of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. to enter into this Order for and on behalf of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
                                     
                                    
Respondents agree that they shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of Mississippi for any monetary penalty or restitution that Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Order. Respondents understand and acknowledge that
        
 
these provisions are not intended to imply that the Division would agree that any other amounts Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
                        
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of May, 2011.
                                                     
        
                
 
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of May, 2011.
                                                     
        
                
 
 
 
CONSENT TO ENTRY OF ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER BY JAMES C. KELSOE
James C. Kelsoe ("Kelsoe") hereby acknowledges that he has been served with a copy of this Administrative Consent Order ("Order"), has read the foregoing Order, is aware of each of his rights to a hearing and appeal in this matter, withdraws his request for a hearing in this matter and has waived his right to a hearing and appeal in this matter.
Kelsoe admits that the Division has personal jurisdiction over him for purposes of settling this administrative proceeding, but otherwise neither admits nor denies any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding; and Kelsoe further consents to entry of this Order by the Division as settlement of the issues contained in this Order.
Kelsoe enters into this Order voluntarily and represents that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the Division or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the Division to induce Kelsoe to enter into this Order other than as set forth in the Order.
Kelsoe agrees that he shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any State of Mississippi for any monetary penalty or restitution amount that Kelsoe shall pay pursuant to this Order. Kelsoe understands and acknowledges that these provisions are not intended to imply that the Division would agree that any other amounts Kelsoe shall pay pursuant to this Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
 
Dated this day of , 2011.
        
                        
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of , 2011.
                                                     
        
                                    
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
WHEREAS, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("MKC") is a broker-dealer in the State of South Carolina; and
WHEREAS, Morgan Asset Management, Inc. ("MAM") is an affiliate of MKC and notice-filed as an investment adviser in the State of South Carolina; and
WHEREAS, James C. Kelsoe, Jr. (hereinafter, sometimes referred to as "Kelsoe" or the "Individual Respondent") was, at relevant times, employed by MAM and registered through MKC,; and
WHEREAS, coordinated investigations into the activities of MKC, MAM and Kelsoe, in connection with certain violations of the South Carolina Uniform Securities Act of 2005, S.C. Code Ann.  35-1-101 to 35-1-702 et. seq., ("Act") and other state securities acts and certain business practices, have been conducted by a multistate task force ("Task Force") and an
additional investigation has been conducted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") (collectively, the "Regulators"); and
WHEREAS, MKC and MAM have cooperated with the Task Force conducting the investigations by responding to inquiries, providing documentary evidence and other materials, and providing Regulators with access to facts relating to the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent have advised the Regulators of their agreement to resolve the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent elect to permanently waive any right to a hearing and appeal under S.C. Code Ann.  35-1-412(g) and 35-1-609 (Supp. 2010), with respect to this Administrative Consent Order (the "Consent Order"); and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent admit the jurisdictional allegations herein, and MKC and MAM admit to the allegations in paragraphs 44 through 46 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but MKC, MAM and Kelsoe except as admitted above, otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Securities Commissioner of the State of South Carolina (the "Securities Commissioner"), as administrator of the Act, hereby enters this Consent Order:
1. Respondent ("MKC") (CRD No. 4161), a Tennessee corporation, is a registered broker-dealer with the Securities Division of the Office of the Attorney General of the State of South Carolina (the "Securities Division") and the SEC, as well as a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC. At all relevant times MKC was
Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
 
properly registered and notice filed with the Securities Division. MKC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation ("RFC") which is headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. MKC's primary business address is 50 Front Street, Morgan Keegan Tower, Memphis, Tennessee 38103-9980.
2. Respondent ("MAM"), a Tennessee corporation, is a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC (CRD No. 111715) and at all relevant times was properly notice filed with the Securities Division. MAM is a wholly owned subsidiary of MK Holding, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of RFC. MAM is headquartered in Alabama with a principal business address of 1901 6
Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
th
Avenue North, 4
th
Floor, Birmingham, Alabama 35203.
3. Respondent ("WMS"), a division of MKC, developed, recommended, and implemented asset allocation strategies for MKC and was to perform due diligence on traditional and alternative funds and fund managers for the benefit of MKC, its Financial Advisers (alternatively referred to as "FAs", "sales force" or "agents"), and certain investor clients.
Wealth Management Services
4. Respondent ("Kelsoe") (CRD No. 2166416) was Senior Portfolio Manager of the Funds, as defined in paragraph II.8 below, and was responsible for selecting and purchasing the holdings for the Funds. Kelsoe was an employee of MAM and registered through MKC.
James C. Kelsoe, Jr.
5. Respondent ("Sullivan") (CRD No. 2741207) was President and Chief Investment Officer of MAM. Sullivan was responsible for the overall management of MAM including oversight of the Funds.
Brian B. Sullivan
 
 
6. Respondent ("Stringer") (CRD No. 2917717) was Director of Investments for WMS. Stringer was responsible for overseeing the due diligence performed on products included on MKC's "Select List." The Select List was a list of products, including mutual funds, separate account managers, and alternative investments, that MKC represented as having passed due diligence screening and therefore determined to be appropriate for use in client portfolios. The Select List was available to MKC FAs and was found to have been used by some number of MKC FAs when making investment recommendations to their clients. In addition, WMS, under the direction of Stringer, created and maintained the model mutual fund allocation portfolios available for use by the FAs.
Gary S. Stringer
7. Respondent ("Wood") (CRD No. 4534832) served as Chief Compliance Officer of the Funds, Chief Compliance Officer of MAM, and Senior Attorney and First Vice President of MKC.
Michele F. Wood
8. The seven (7) funds at issue are Regions Morgan Keegan Select Intermediate Bond Fund ("Intermediate Bond Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Select High Income Fund ("Select High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Advantage Income Fund ("Advantage Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan High Income Fund ("High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Multi-Sector High Income Fund ("Multi-Sector High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Strategic Income Fund ("Strategic Income Fund"), and Regions Morgan Keegan Select Short Term Bond Fund ("Short Term Bond Fund") (collectively, the "Funds").
9. Six (6) of the seven (7) Funds were largely invested in mezzanine and lower subordinated "tranches," or slices, of structured debt instruments, which carry more risk than the
 
senior tranches.
1
The Funds were comprised of many of the same holdings. On June 30, 2007, approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the holdings of the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund were substantially identical. Approximately one quarter (1/4) of the Intermediate Bond Fund's holdings corresponded to the holdings of the five (5) high yield Funds. The Funds were highly correlated, meaning they behaved like each other under similar market conditions. The combination of subordinated tranche holdings and the high correlation of the Funds caused investors owning more than one (1) of these funds to have a heightened risk of over concentration.
10. The Funds were created and managed by Kelsoe, MAM Senior portfolio manager. Kelsoe was also principally responsible for the purchase and sale of all of the holdings in the Funds.
11. When WMS ceased reporting and dropped its coverage of the Select Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund in July 2007, it failed to announce the drop in coverage in writing until November, 2007. WMS did not publish a withdrawal of its prior analysis or recommend the Funds' replacement.
12. On January 19, 2007, WMS announced it was reclassifying the Intermediate Bond Fund on the Select List from "Fixed Income" to "Non-Traditional Fixed Income." Meanwhile, WMS profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund continued to label it as the "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond."
 
 
13. Certain of the Funds' annual, semi-annual, and quarterly reports filed with the SEC did not adequately disclose the risks of subordinated tranches and the quantity of subordinated tranches held within the Funds.
14. MAM produced quarterly glossies for all seven (7) Funds. In the glossies, MAM did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
15. MKC, through WMS, produced quarterly Fund Profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund, the Select High Income Fund, and the Short Term Bond Fund that did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
16. In SEC filings and state notice filings of March and June 2007 involving the Funds, Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000.00) of what MAM characterized as corporate bonds and preferred stocks were, in fact, the lower, subordinated tranches of asset- backed structured debt instruments. MAM eventually reclassified certain of these structured debt instruments in the March 2008 Form N-Q Holdings Report for the three (3) open-end funds.
17. In SEC filings, MAM compared the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund (collectively the "RMK high-yield funds"), which contained approximately two- thirds (2/3) structured debt instruments, to the Lehman Brothers U.S. High Yield Index ("Lehman Ba Index"). The Lehman Ba Index is not directly comparable to the RMK high-yield funds given the fact that the Lehman Ba Index contained only corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments.
18. Certain marketing materials and reports minimized the risks and volatility associated with investing in funds largely comprised of structured debt instruments. In the June 30,
 
2007 glossy, and in previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, MAM and MKC marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund as a fund appropriate for "Capital Preservation & Income." MAM later revised the Intermediate Bond Fund glossy in September 2007 by removing the caption "Capital Preservation & Income" and replacing it with "Income & Growth," and by removing the word "stability," which had previously been used to describe the fund.
19. The Intermediate Bond Fund glossies dated June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007, stated that the Intermediate Bond Fund "does not invest in speculative derivatives." However, the Intermediate Bond Fund did use derivatives, including interest-only strips, and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), which are derived from the mezzanine and lower tranches of other debt securities.
20. Respondent MKC through WMS labeled the Intermediate Bond Fund with varying names. None of the three labels "Taxable Fixed Income", "Enhanced Low-Correlation" and "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond" used by MKC adequately portrayed the nature of the Intermediate Bond Fund, of which approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the portfolio was invested in the mezzanine or lower subordinated tranches of structured debt instruments. The label "Gov't/Corp Bond," which first appeared on the December 31, 2006 profile sheet, was never changed after that date.
A.
SUPERVISION AND SUPERVISORY DUE DILIGENCE
21. During the period January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, preceding the collapse of the subprime market, MAM made 262 downward price adjustments for the purpose of adjusting the net asset value ("NAV") of the Funds. In some instances, MAM's communications led MKC, through its sales force, to actively discourage investors from selling the Fundseven while fund prices continued to decline  by advising investors to "hold the course." Some
 
members of MKC, MAM, and their management personnel continued during this period to advise FAs and investors to buy the Funds through, statements that characterized the decline as "a buying opportunity."
inter alia,
22. MKC and MAM failed to adequately supervise the flow of information to the MKC sales force concerning the Funds. For example, in conference calls with the sales force, the senior portfolio manager for the Funds cited sub-prime fears and liquidity as the primary factors for a decline in the net asset value of the Funds without fully explaining the market impact on certain securities held by the Funds.
23. WMS did not complete a thorough annual due diligence report of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in 2007. A fixed income analyst for WMS, attempted to complete an annual due diligence review of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in the summer of 2007, but was unsuccessful due to Kelsoe's and MAM's failure to provide sufficient information and Kelsoe's failure to be available for a meeting during normal operating hours. Subsequently, WMS failed to notify the MKC sales force of WMS's failure to complete the annual on-site due diligence review. An incomplete draft of WMS's annual due diligence report for internal use only was submitted by the WMS analyst, but it was neither completed nor released to the sales force.
24. On July 31, 2007, WMS dropped coverage of all proprietary products, which included the funds for which WMS could not produce a thorough report. This fact was not disclosed in writing to the sales force until November 2007.
25. Based on WMS's one (1) page, one (1) paragraph report of the August 18, 2006 on-site due diligence review, the due diligence visits by the WMS fixed income analysts were not "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive," as advertised by MKC. There are two (2) WMS
 
profiles of the Intermediate Bond Fund dated September 30, 2006. The sections titled "investment philosophy" in the profile sheets contain substantial differences. The first WMS profile for the Intermediate Bond Fund, based on the information for the quarter ending September 30, 2006, is titled "Taxable Fixed Income." The first profile, much like previous quarterly profiles, does not refer to any of the holdings as "inferior tranches." Neither does it mention potential lack of demand and lack of liquidity. Further, it includes the statement that "The fund does not use derivatives or leverage."
26. WMS's changing of the Intermediate Bond Fund profile label indicated WMS's inability and lack of supervision in the creation of these marketing pieces to accurately categorize the Intermediate Bond Fund. Within one (1) quarter, WMS identified the Intermediate Bond Fund three (3) different ways:
September 30, 2006 - Taxable Fixed Income
September 30, 2006 - Enhanced Low Correlations Fixed Income
December 31, 2006 - Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond
27. The "Gov't/Corp Bond" label implied that the Intermediate Bond Fund holdings were predominately government and corporate bonds carrying a certain degree of safety. This improper labeling indicates a failure to conduct proper due diligence, a duty of MKC.
28. In addition, all profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund from March 31, 2006, through June 30, 2007, stated that Kelsoe was joined by Rip Mecherle ("Mecherle") as assistant portfolio manager. Mecherle left MAM in 2004. The failure to detect the errors in promotional materials relating to management does not reflect the "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive due diligence" claimed by MKC in its sales and promotional material distributed to investors.
B.
SUITABILITY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
29. Respondent MAM indicated that risks and volatility were minimized in the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and previous quarterly glossies
 
created by MAM, Respondents marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund's broad diversification of asset classes three (3) times on the first page of each of the glossies, when in fact, approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio was composed of structured debt instruments which included risky assets. The four (4) closed-end funds also advertised diversification among asset classes, despite the similarities in asset classes as set forth in Section C below.
30. Furthermore, the glossies emphasized the Select High Income Fund's net asset value as being less volatile than typical high-yield funds. The glossies failed to state that a reason for any lower volatility was that the structured debt instruments within the Select High Income Fund were not actively traded, and that the daily fair value adjustments of certain holdings were imprecise in a market that became illiquid.
31. In certain cases, MKC and its sales force failed to obtain adequate suitability information regarding risk tolerance that was necessary to determine suitability for using the Funds for regular brokerage account customers. New account forms for regular brokerage accounts provided a menu of four (4) investment objectives to choose from: Growth, Income, Speculation, and Tax-Advantaged. Risk tolerance was not addressed by the form, was not noted by the sales force whose records were examined during the investigation, and may not have been taken into consideration when the sales force made its recommendations.
32. In at least one instance, an agent of MKC provided a customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
 
C.
ADVERTISEMENTS BY RESPONDENTS
33. Marketing glossies prepared by MAM for the Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund contained allocation pie charts dividing the categories of holdings by percentages of the total portfolio. Between June 2004 and March 2005, the pie charts for both funds changed significantly: MAM divided the category originally titled "asset-backed securities" into multiple categories. These changes indicated that the holdings of these Funds were more diversified than they actually were because the majority of the portfolios continued to be invested in asset-backed securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
34. The pie charts in the glossies for the High Income Fund were also changed in a similar manner between June 2004 and March 2005.
35. Similar changes were also made to pie charts in glossies for the Advantage Income Fund and the Strategic Income Fund between December 2004 and March 2005.
36. Respondent MKC used different index comparisons in the Select High Income Fund "Profile" sheets produced by WMS. These profile sheets compared the Select High Income Fund to the Credit Suisse First Boston High Yield Index, as well as the Merrill Lynch US High Yield Cash BB Index. These two indices only contain corporate bonds and no structured debt
 
instruments. The Select High Income Fund contained substantially different risks than the portfolios within either of the two indices, and therefore these benchmarks were not directly comparable.
D.
REQUIRED EXAMINATIONS OF CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS TO DETECT AND PREVENT IRREGULARITIES
         
OR ABUSES
37. While the models for WMS managed accounts limited the use of the Intermediate Bond Fund to certain percentages, usually no more than fifteen percent (15%) of any client's portfolio, there was no such limitation for non-managed accounts. Additionally, no guidance was provided to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of the Intermediate Bond Fund in non-managed accounts. As a result, certain customer accounts contained in excess of a twenty percent (20%) concentration of the Intermediate Bond Fund.
38. The four closed-end funds, the Select High Income Fund and the Intermediate Bond Fund were all highly correlated. However, MKC provided limited guidance to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of combinations of the Funds in non-managed accounts.
39. Up until six (6) months before the collapse of the fund, WMS classified the Intermediate Bond Fund as "Core Plus" in the Fixed Income section of the Select List. At that time it was reclassified as "Alternative Fixed Income" in the Non-Traditional section of the Select List. Yet MKC's concentration for many of its non-WMS managed accounts continued to be above twenty percent (20%) which could indicate its use as a core holding. An e-mail chain from Gary S. Stringer of WMS states as follows:
Stringer Gary [Gary.Stringer@morgankeegan.com]
From:
Tuesday, May 15, 2007 4:10 PM
Sent:
Hennek, Roderick
To:
Re: RMK Intermediate Bond Fund
Subject:
Rod,
I did notice that you didn't cc anyone on your email, and I appreciate that. We've always had good, candid conversation.
 
You have a good point in that we have some low correlation equity strategies on the Traditional side. What worries me about this bond fund is the tracking error and the potential risks associated with all that asset-backed exposure. They think the return are great because the PM is so smart. He definately is smart, but it's the same as thinking your small cap manager is a hero because he beat the S&P for the last 5 years.
Mr & Mrs Jones don't expect that kind of risk from their bond funds. The bond exposure is not supposed to be where you take risks. I'd bet that most of the people who hold that fund have no idea what's it's actually invested in. I'm just as sure that most of our FAs have no idea what's in that fund either.
If people are using RMK as their core, or only bond fund, I think it's only a matter of time before we have some very unhappy investors.
(Emphasis added.).
Certain MKC brokers and branch managers interviewed during the investigation stated that they received limited or no guidance as to appropriate concentrations of the Funds to use within clients' accounts.
E.
REQUIREMENT TO CONDUCT AN ADEQUATE AND THOROUGH CORRESPONDENCE REVIEW
40. An agent of MKC provided one known customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
41. The MKC agent referred to in the preceding paragraph created a sales illustration in which he compared the returns for the Intermediate Bond Fund to the returns for traditional bank CDs. The agent used the illustration in order to market the Intermediate Bond Fund to bank customers. The agent stated that he created the illustration and that the illustration was not reviewed or approved by appropriate supervisory personnel of MKC. The chart fails to address any risks of investing in the Intermediate Bond Fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
F.
SUPERVISION
42. Carter Anthony, President of MAM from 2001 until the end of 2006, has testified under oath that he conducted performance reviews of all MAM mutual fund managers that included reviews of their portfolios and trading. However, he testified that he did not conduct the
 
same supervisory review and oversight of Kelsoe and the Funds because he was instructed to "leave Kelsoe alone." MAM denies that any such instruction was given.
43. In December 2001, Kelsoe signed a new account form as branch manager, when he, in fact, was never a branch manager nor held any supervisory/compliance licenses. Proper supervision of Kelsoe's activities would have detected such an unauthorized action on his part.
G.
MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED BOOKS AND RECORDS
44. MAM's Fund Management fundamental and qualitative research was touted in marketing and research material.
45. MAM, through its Portfolio Managers, selected securities for investments by the Funds' portfolios. MAM was consulted regarding the fair valuation of certain securities held by the portfolios. Adequate documentation was not retained as to pricing adjustments recommended by MAM to be made to certain of the securities.
46. WMS performed annual due diligence reviews of certain of the Funds and Fund management (MAM and Kelsoe). In mid-2007, MAM and Kelsoe did not provide sufficient information to allow completion of the 2007 annual due diligence review conducted by MKC through WMS. Kelsoe did not make himself available for a meeting during normal operating hours, further delaying the completion of WMS's on-site due diligence review. As a consequence, the report for two of the open-end funds was not completed. By August 2007, WMS dropped coverage of proprietary products and a report for 2007 was never released to the MKC sales force.
H.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT OF JAMES KELSOE
47. In addition to his duties regarding management of the Funds and selection of investments, Kelsoe was responsible for reviewing information regarding holdings of the Funds to be included in marketing materials and filings with the SEC. Kelsoe also was
 
responsible for supervising his staffs involvement with these processes, as well as their interaction with third parties. Kelsoe had the most knowledge at MAM about the nature of the holdings of the Funds, including the types of securities being purchased or sold for the Funds, the risks associated with the holdings, and the correlation of the holdings among the Funds. Kelsoe and his staff provided information for the preparation of regulatory filings, marketing materials, reports and communications about the Funds. Kelsoe contributed to and delivered commentaries for the Funds and management discussions of fund performance. The SEC filings for the Funds, for which Kelsoe and his staff furnished information regarding holdings of each of the Funds, were provided to Kelsoe for his review prior to filing.
48. Kelsoe contributed to and was aware of the usage of the glossies and certain other marketing materials for the Funds by MAM, as described above, including the descriptions of the Funds, the allocation pie charts, the use of benchmarks, and characterizations of risks and features of the Funds.
49. Kelsoe's involvement in the fair valuation process for securities held by the Funds during the period from January 1, 2007 to July 31, 2007, including influencing some dealer confirmations that were returned, contributed to certain inaccurate valuations of selected holdings on various dates during that period.
50. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe did not retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds. These recommendations were used on occasion in the calculation of the daily net asset values of the Funds.
51. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe failed to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of
 
the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain MKC FAs.
1. The Securities Commissioner is responsible for the enforcement of laws governing the issuance, sale, and other transactions relative to securities pursuant to S.C. Code Ann.  35-1-601(a) (Supp. 2010).
2. In violation of S. C. Code Ann.  35-1-412 (d)
2
(2) & (13) (Supp. 2010), S.C. Reg. 13-501 (A) (21) (Supp. 2010), FINRA Rule 2010, and NASD IM 2210, MKC and/or MAM conducted and participated in the following practices:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. In violation of S. C. Code Ann.  35-1-412 (d)(2)&(9) (Supp. 2010), S.C. Reg. 13-501 (A)(21) (Supp. 2010) and NASD Rule 3010(A), MKC and/or MAM failed to reasonably supervise their agents, employees and associated persons in the following manner:
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. In violation of S. C. Code Ann.  35-1-412 (d)(13) (Supp. 2010), S.C. Reg. 13- 501 (A)(3) (Supp. 2010), and S.C. Reg. 13-502 (A)(1) (Supp. 2010), MKC and/or MAM failed to make suitable recommendations to some investors as demonstrated by the following:
 
 
 
 
5. In violation of S. C. Code Ann.  35-1-412 (d)(9) (Supp. 2010), S.C. Reg. 13- 501(A)(21) (Supp. 2010) and NASD Rule 3010, MKC failed to enforce their supervisory procedures in the following manner:
 
 
6. In violation of S. C. Code Ann.  35-1-412 (d)(9) (Supp. 2010), MKC and/or MAM in many instances failed to review correspondence and marketing materials used by associated persons to sell the Funds:
 
 
 
7. In violation of S. C. Code Ann.  35-1-412 (d)(13) (Supp. 2010), S.C. Reg. 13-501 (A)(3) (Supp. 2010) and S.C. Reg. 13-502 (A)(l) (Supp. 2010), in certain cases, MAM and MKC inappropriately recommended the purchase of the Funds for client portfolios without reasonable justification that said recommendation was suitable for the client.
8. In violation of S. C. Code Ann.  35-1-412 (d)(2)&(13) (Supp. 2010), S.C. Reg. 13-501(A)(21) (Supp. 2010) and FINRA Rule 2010, MKC distributed marketing materials and MAM distributed disclosure materials that were inaccurate:
 
 
 
 
 
9. In violation of S. C. Code Ann.  35-1-411(c)(1)(Supp. 2010), S.C. Reg. 13-408 (Supp. 2010) and S.C. Reg. 13-502(B) (Supp. 2010), Kelsoe failed to retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds.
10. In violation of S. C. Code Ann.  35-1-412 (d)(9)(Supp. 2010), Kelsoe failed to reasonably supervise his staff by failing to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain Morgan Keegan Financial Advisors.
11. In further violation of the Act, Kelsoe participated in the advertising and supervisory violations set forth above.
12. As a result of the foregoing, the Securities Commissioner finds this Consent Order and the following relief appropriate and in the public interest, and consistent with the Act.
On the basis of the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and MKC's, MAM's and Kelsoe's consents to the entry of this Order,
 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:
1. Entry of this Consent Order concludes the investigation by the Securities Division and any other action that the Securities Division could commence under applicable South Carolina law on behalf of the State of South Carolina as it relates to Kelsoe, MKC and MAM, any of their affiliates, and any of their past or present employees or other agents in any way relating to the Funds, and acceptance by the Securities Commissioner of the settlement offer and payments referenced in this Consent Order shall be in satisfaction of and preclude any action that the Securities Division could commence under applicable South Carolina law against the foregoing; provided however, that excluded from and not covered by this paragraph are (a) individual sales practice violations that could have been brought even had the violations asserted herein against MKC, MAM, or Kelsoe not occurred, and (b) any claims by the Securities Division arising from or relating to violations of the provisions contained in this Consent Order. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Securities Division from opposing a request for expungement by a past or present employee or other agent before a regulatory or self-regulatory entity, any court of competent jurisdiction, or any hearing officer, under circumstances it deems appropriate. This paragraph also has no application to the individual respondents who are not parties/signatories to this Consent Order.
2. This Consent Order is entered into for the purpose of resolving in full the referenced multistate investigation with respect to Respondents who have executed this Consent Order and any of their affiliates, as such investigation relates to the allegations of the Joint Notice of Intent to Revoke Registration. This Consent Order does not nullify, dismiss, impact, or otherwise affect investigations or proceedings as to any individual or person who is not a party or an affiliate of said party to this Consent Order.
 
3. The findings of fact, conclusions of law and order contained in this Consent Order have been extensively negotiated. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or at law or in equity to the contrary, nothing contained in this Consent Order, including without any limitation any finding of fact, allegation, assertion, or conclusion of law herein, shall preclude, impact, affect, limit, or bar in any manner whatsoever any claims or actions against, or defenses of, Sullivan, Stringer, or Wood based on the same circumstances and/or legal theories contained herein. This Consent Order shall not be admissible as evidence of any alleged violations in any proceeding brought by Regulators against the individual respondents other than Kelsoe.
4. MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe will CEASE AND DESIST from violating the Act, and will comply with the Act.
5. Pursuant to this South Carolina Consent Order (File No. 08011) and related Consent Orders of the States of Alabama (SC-2010-0016), Kentucky (Agency Case No. 2010- AH-021/Administrative Action No. 10-PPC0267), Mississippi (Administrative Proceeding File No. s-08-0050), and Tennessee (Docket No. 12.06-107077J/Order No. 11-005), the offer of settlement in SEC Administrative Proceeding (File No. 3-13847) (the "SEC Order") and the FINRA Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent No. 2007011164502, MKC and MAM shall pay in resolution of all of these matters, within ten (10) days of the entry of the SEC Order the sum of Two Hundred Million Dollars ($200,000,000.00) to be distributed as follows: 1) One Hundred Million to the SEC's Fair Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of the SEC Order; and 2) One Hundred Million to a States' Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of this Consent Order. Any costs, expenses, and charges associated with the Fair Fund and States' Fund management and distributions shall be paid by MKC and MAM and shall not
 
diminish the fund corpus. The Fair Fund and the State's Fund shall be distributed pursuant to distribution plans drawn up by the administrator(s) ("Fair Fund Administrator" for the SEC's portion and "Fund Administrator" for the States' portion). The administrator(s) are to be respectively chosen by a representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Tennessee, Mississippi, and South Carolina ("States' Fair Fund Representative"), and the SEC. Nothing in this paragraph shall require or limit the SEC's and the States' choice of fund administrators which may or may not be the same entity or person for both funds. Respondents shall pay the sum of Fourteen Thousand, Two Hundred Dollars ($14,200.00) to the Securities Division as reimbursement of direct and indirect costs and expenses of the Securities Division's cost for investigating this matter.
6. MKC and MAM shall pay the sum of Three Hundred Seventy-Five Thousand, Nine Hundred Eighty-Two Dollars ($375,982.00) to the Securities Division as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of South Carolina's share of the state settlement amount of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000.00). Such funds shall be delivered to the office of the Securities Commissioner within ten (10) days of the date on which the SEC Order is entered. In the event another state securities regulator determines not to accept the settlement offer, the total amount of the payment to the Securities Division shall not be affected.
7. MKC and MAM shall also pay the sum of Twenty-Three Thousand Dollars ($23,000.00) to the North American Securities Administrators Association ("NASAA") as reimbursement for its actual costs, expended on states behalf.
8. Kelsoe shall cause to be paid the sum of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,00.00) to the Securities Division as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of South Carolina's proportionate share of the state settlement amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand
 
Dollars ($250,000.00). Such funds shall be delivered to the Office of the Securities Commissioner within ten (10) days of the later of the execution of this Consent Order of the date on which the SEC Order is entered. Acceptance of the settlement offer and the payment referenced above in this paragraph by the Securities Division shall be in full satisfaction of and preclude any action that the Securities Division could commence under applicable law against Kelsoe related in any way to his management of the Funds, and otherwise disposes of claims against Kelsoe as set forth in this Order.
9. As additional consideration for the dismissal of the administrative proceeding by the Securities Division, Kelsoe does hereby agree to the revocation of all existing registrations and/or licenses and to an Order of Permanent Bar:
a. He shall not apply for registration as an issuer agent, broker-dealer agent or investment adviser representative in the State of South Carolina.
b. He shall not serve as an officer, director, or manager of, or issuer of interests in, a mutual fund, money market fund, pooled-investments or similar securities and investment vehicles which are publicly offered or sold in the State of South Carolina.
10. If any payments are not made by MKC, MAM, or on behalf of Kelsoe, the Securities Division may petition the Securities Commissioner to vacate this Consent Order, at his sole discretion, upon thirty (30) days notice to MKC and/or MAM, or as appropriate, Kelsoe, and, without opportunity for an administrative hearing, the Securities Commissioner may enter a final order or decree if such default is not cured to the satisfaction of the regulators within the thirty (30) day notice period. Any dispute related to any payments required under this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of South Carolina without regard to any choice of law principles.
 
11. This Consent Order shall not disqualify MKC and MAM, or any of their affiliates or registered representatives from any business that they otherwise are qualified or licensed to perform under any applicable state law and is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualification or suspension in any state. Further, this Consent Order is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualifications contained in the federal securities law, the rules and regulations thereunder, the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations, or various states' securities laws including but not limited to any disqualifications from relying upon the registration exemptions or safe harbor provisions.
12. MKC, MAM, and all of their existing and future affiliates and subsidiaries are prohibited from creating, offering or selling a proprietary fund
3
that is a registered investment company and is marketed and sold to investors other than institutional and other qualified investors as defined in Section 3(a)(54) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.  78c(a)(54), ("proprietary fund") for a period of two (2) years from the entry of the first of the State Consent Orders to be entered in this matter. MKC, MAM, their affiliates or subsidiaries, may seek permission to resume offering or begin offering a proprietary fund in South Carolina after the lapse of the first year of the prohibition, but may not proceed with the offer and sale of such proprietary fund in South Carolina prior to receiving the express written consent and approval of the Deputy Securities Commissioner or his designee.
13. State Regulatory Audits or Examinations as authorized by S. C. Code Ann.  35- 1-411 (d) (Supp. 2010). In addition to any state regulatory audits or examinations authorized by state statute, the state regulatory authority may conduct appropriate audits or examinations of the
 
 
offices and branch offices of the Respondents MKC and MAM. Appropriate costs associated with such audits or examinations conducted within two (2) years from the date of this Consent Order, shall be borne by MKC and/or MAM. This provision in no way limits the assessment of costs by states which routinely assess registrants with the costs of audits.
14. If prior to January 1, 2016, MKC and/or MAM shall again form and sell any proprietary investment products
4
, they shall at that time retain, for a period of three (3) years, at their own expense, an independent auditor, acceptable to the they shall at that time retain, for a period of three (3) years, at their own expense, an independent auditor, acceptable to the representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Tennessee ("States' Representative") and the SEC. The independent auditor cannot be an affiliated entity of MKC or MAM. Further, to ensure the independence of the independent auditor, MKC and/or MAM: (a) shall not have the authority to terminate the independent auditor without prior written approval of the States' representative; (b) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client relationship with the independent auditor and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other privilege or doctrine to prevent the independent auditor from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the States; and (c) during the period of engagement and for a period of two (2) years after the engagement, shall not enter into any
 
 
employment, customer, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with the independent auditor.
The scope of the independent auditor's engagement shall be approved by the States' Representative prior to the commencement of the audit, and shall include, but is not limited to, reviews and examinations of:
 
 
 
 
15. Further, the independent auditor shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. MKC and MAM shall:
 
 
 
 
17. MKC and MAM shall retain within sixty (60) days of the entry of this Consent Order, at their own expense, an independent consultant ("Consultant"), acceptable to the States' representative, and the SEC. The Consultant shall review MKC's and/or MAM's: (i) current written supervisory and compliance procedures concerning product suitability; (ii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures regarding recommendations and disclosures relating to registered investment companies; (iii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures relating to advertising and sales literature regarding the purchase and sale of registered investment companies; and (iv) the implementation and effectiveness of (i) through (iii); provided that the lookback period for (i) through (iii) shall not exceed the twelve month period prior to the entry of this Consent Order.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. MKC and MAM shall provide, for a period of three (3) years, to all of their registered agents and investment adviser representatives mandatory, comprehensive, and ongoing (i) product/offering training on each of the proprietary products/offerings that they sell or recommend to clients, and (ii) training on suitability and risks of investments generally. The training required pursuant to this paragraph shall be in addition to any continuing education training required to maintain the registrations of the registered agents and investment adviser representatives and shall include, at a minimum, training on all of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
19. For training related to proprietary products/offerings, MKC and MAM shall develop and implement course evaluations to be completed by each FA in order to assess the effectiveness of the training.
20. MKC and MAM shall;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21. One person shall not simultaneously hold the positions of General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer for either Respondent.
22. Nothing herein shall preclude the State of South Carolina, its departments, agencies, boards, commissions, authorities, political subdivisions, and corporations (collectively "State Entities"), other than the Securities Division, and only to the extent set forth herein, from asserting any claims, causes of action, or applications for compensatory, nominal and/or punitive damages, administrative, civil, criminal, or injunctive relief against MKC and MAM in connection with the marketing and sales practices of the Funds at MKC or MAM.
23. Any dispute or default other than related to payments as referenced in paragraph 10 related to this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of South Carolina without regard to any choice of law principles.
24. Unless otherwise stipulated, the parties intend that the monies allocated through the SEC's Fair Fund and/or the States' Fund, including the monies allocated pursuant to this Consent Order, to the investors of any given State will be treated as an offset against any order for MKC, MAM or Kelsoe, or any of them, to pay any amount (whether designated as restitution, fines or otherwise compensatory in nature) in any action not concluded by this Consent Order brought by that State or any of the regulatory agencies thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as delineated in paragraphs 44 through 46, this Consent Order is presumed to be treated as a settlement for evidentiary purposes not as evidence of either damage or liability itself. MKC and MAM further agree that in the event they should enter into a consent order prior to an adjudication on the merits with another State's securities regulator which provides each investor a higher percentage return of losses per invested dollar than under
 
the terms of this Consent Order, then the Securities Division may, at its option, obtain the same payout of losses per invested dollar for the investors of this State.
25. Respondents MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe agree not to make or permit to be made any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any finding in this Order or creating the impression that this Order is without factual basis. Nothing in this Paragraph affects MKC's, MAM's, or Kelsoe's: (i) testimonial obligations, or (ii) right to take legal or factual positions in defense of litigation or arbitration or in defense of other legal proceedings in which the Securities Division is not a party.
26. In connection with any action by the Securities Division against Sullivan, Wood, or Stringer, MKC and MAM will produce, upon reasonable notice but without service of a subpoena, any and all documents and other information requested by the Securities Division, and make available witnesses under their control for any further testimony, investigations, administrative proceedings or hearings and shall cooperate fully in any and all current or future administrative proceedings against those parties. If any documents or other information requested is claimed as ", Respondents shall provide a " and any further dispute concerning production of said document(s) shall be submitted to a hearing officer under applicable state rules or procedures for final determination. Nothing herein shall affect any statutory authority of the Securities Division, including but not limited to, inspections, visits, examinations, and/or the production of documents
27. This Consent Order shall be binding upon MKC and MAM, and their successors and assigns, with respect to all conduct subject to the provisions above and all future obligations, responsibilities, undertakings, commitments, limitations, restrictions, events, and conditions.
 
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
CONSENT TO ENTRY OF ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER BY SECURITIES DIVISION
The Securities Division of the Office of the Attorney General consents to entry of the above order, on this the day of June, 2011.
        
 
 
Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (") hereby acknowledge that they have been served with a copy of this Consent Order, have read the foregoing Consent Order, are aware of each of their right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and have waived the same.
Respondents admit the jurisdiction of the Securities Commissioner; admit to the allegations in paragraphs 44 through 46 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding; and Respondents further consent to entry of this Consent Order by the Securities Commissioner as settlement of the issues contained in this Consent Order.
Respondents enter into this Consent Order voluntarily and represent that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the Securities Commissioner or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the Securities Division to induce Respondents to enter into this Consent Order.
represents that he/she is of Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Asset Management, Inc. to enter into this Consent Order for and on behalf of Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
                                     
                                        
represents that he/she is of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. to enter into this Consent Order for and on behalf of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
                                         
                                        
Respondents agree that they shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of South Carolina for any monetary penalty or restitution that
 
Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order. Respondents understand and acknowledge that these provisions are not intended to imply that the Securities Division would agree that any other amounts Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                        
        
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                        
        
 
 
James C. Kelsoe, Jr. (") hereby acknowledges that he has been served with a copy of this Consent Order, has read the foregoing Consent Order, is aware of his right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and has waived the same.
Individual Respondent admits that the Securities Commissioner has personal jurisdiction over him for purposes of settling this administrative proceeding, but otherwise neither admits nor denies any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding; and Kelsoe further consents to entry of this Consent Order by the Securities Commissioner as settlement of the issues contained in this Consent Order.
Individual Respondent agrees that he shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of South Carolina for any monetary penalty or restitution that Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order. Individual Respondent understands and acknowledges that these provisions are not intended to imply that the Securities Division would agree that any other amount Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                        
        
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
 
 
 
 
The Tennessee Securities Division ("Division"), Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("MKC"), Morgan Asset Management, Inc. ("MAM") and James Cooper Kelsoe, Jr. ("Kelsoe") (and together with MKC and MAM, "Respondents") agree to the entry of this Consent Order in accordance with T. C A.  48-2-116 of the Tennessee Securities Act of 1980, as amended, T. C A.  48-2-101, ("Act"), which states that the Commissioner of the Department of Commerce and Insurance ("Commissioner") may from time to time make such orders as are necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act.
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
ODE
NN
et seq.
Respondents hereby stipulate and agree, subject to the approval of the Commissioner, as follows:
WHEREAS, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("MKC")(CRD No. 4161) is a broker-dealer in the state of Tennessee; and
WHEREAS, Morgan Asset Management, Inc. ("MAM")(CRD No. 111715) is an affiliate of MKC and notice-filed as an investment adviser in the state of Tennessee; and
 
WHEREAS, James C. Kelsoe, Jr. ("Kelsoe" or the "Individual Respondent")(CRD No. 2166416) was, at relevant times, employed by MAM and registered through MKC,; and
WHEREAS, coordinated investigations into the activities of MKC, MAM and Kelsoe, in connection with certain violations of the Act and other state securities acts and certain business practices, have been conducted by a multistate task force ("Task Force") and an additional investigation has been conducted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") (collectively, the "Regulators"); and
WHEREAS, MKC and MAM have cooperated with the Task Force conducting the investigations by responding to inquiries, providing documentary evidence and other materials, and providing Regulators with access to facts relating to the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent have advised the Regulators of their agreement to resolve the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent elect to permanently waive any right to a hearing and appeal under T. C A.  4-5-101 and to judicial review of this Consent Order pursuant to T. C A.  48-2-120, with respect to this Consent Order ("Consent Order"); and
ENN
ODE
NN
et seq.
ENN
ODE
NN
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent admit the jurisdictional allegations herein, and MKC and MAM admit to the allegations in paragraphs 44 thru 46 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but MKC, MAM and Kelsoe, except as admitted above, otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Commissioner, as administrator of the Act, hereby enters this Consent Order:
1. Respondent ("MKC") (CRD No. 4161), a Tennessee corporation, is a registered broker-dealer with the Division and the SEC, as well as a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC. At all relevant times MKC was properly registered and notice-filed with the Division. MKC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation ("RFC") which is headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. MKC's primary business address is 50 Front Street, Morgan Keegan Tower, Memphis, Tennessee 38103-9980.
Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
2. Respondent ("MAM"), a Tennessee corporation, is a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC (CRD No. 111715) and at all relevant times was properly notice-filed with the Division. MAM is a wholly owned subsidiary of MK Holding, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of RFC. MAM is headquartered in Alabama with a principal business address of 1901 6
Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
th
Avenue North, 4
th
Floor, Birmingham, Alabama 35203.
3. ("WMS"), a division of MKC, developed, recommended, and implemented asset allocation strategies for MKC and was to perform due diligence on traditional and alternative funds and fund managers for the benefit of MKC, its Financial Advisers (alternatively referred to as "FAs", "sales force" or "agents"), and certain investor clients.
Wealth Management Services
 
4. Respondent ("Kelsoe") (CRD No. 2166416) was Senior Portfolio Manager of the Funds, as defined in paragraph II.8 below, and was responsible for selecting and purchasing the holdings for the Funds. Kelsoe was an employee of MAM and registered through MKC.
James C. Kelsoe, Jr.
5. ("Sullivan") (CRD No. 2741207) was President and Chief Investment Officer of MAM. Sullivan was responsible for the overall management of MAM including oversight of the Funds.
Brian B. Sullivan
6. ("Stringer") (CRD No. 2917717) was Director of Investments for WMS. Stringer was responsible for overseeing the due diligence performed on products included on MKC's "Select List." The Select List was a list of products, including mutual funds, separate account managers, and alternative investments, that MKC represented as having passed due diligence screening and therefore determined to be appropriate for use in client portfolios. The Select List was available to MKC FAs and was found to have been used by some number of MKC FAs when making investment recommendations to their clients. In addition, WMS, under the direction of Stringer, created and maintained the model mutual fund allocation portfolios available for use by the FAs.
Gary S. Stringer
7. ("Wood") (CRD No. 4534832) served as Chief Compliance Officer of the Funds, Chief Compliance Officer of MAM, and Senior Attorney and First Vice President of MKC.
Michele F. Wood
8. The seven (7) funds at issue are Regions Morgan Keegan Select Intermediate Bond Fund ("Intermediate Bond Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Select High Income Fund
 
("Select High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Advantage Income Fund ("Advantage Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan High Income Fund ("High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Multi-Sector High Income Fund ("Multi-Sector High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Strategic Income Fund ("Strategic Income Fund"), and Regions Morgan Keegan Select Short Term Bond Fund ("Short Term Bond Fund") (collectively, the "Funds").
9. Six (6) of the seven (7) Funds were largely invested in mezzanine and lower subordinated "tranches," or slices, of structured debt instruments, which carry more risk than the senior tranches.
1
The Funds were comprised of many of the same holdings. On June 30, 2007, approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the holdings of the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund were substantially identical. Approximately one quarter (1/4) of the Intermediate Bond Fund's holdings corresponded to the holdings of the five (5) high yield Funds. The Funds were highly correlated, meaning they behaved like each other under similar market conditions. The combination of subordinated tranche holdings and the high correlation of the Funds caused investors owning more than one (1) of these funds to have a heightened risk of over concentration.
10. The Funds were created and managed by Kelsoe, MAM Senior portfolio manager. Kelsoe was also principally responsible for the purchase and sale of all of the holdings in the Funds.
11. When WMS ceased reporting and dropped its coverage of the Select Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund in July 2007, it failed to announce the drop in coverage
 
 
in writing until November, 2007. WMS did not publish a withdrawal of its prior analysis or recommend the Funds' replacement.
12. On January 19, 2007, WMS announced it was reclassifying the Intermediate Bond Fund on the Select List from "Fixed Income" to "Non-Traditional Fixed Income." Meanwhile, WMS profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund continued to label it as the "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond."
13. Certain of the Funds' annual, semi-annual, and quarterly reports filed with the SEC did not adequately disclose the risks of subordinated tranches and the quantity of subordinated tranches held within the Funds.
14. MAM produced quarterly glossies for all seven (7) Funds. In the glossies, MAM did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
15. MKC, through WMS, produced quarterly Fund Profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund, the Select High Income Fund, and the Short Term Bond Fund that did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
16. In SEC filings and state notice filings of March and June 2007 involving the Funds, four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000.00) of what MAM characterized as corporate bonds and preferred stocks were, in fact, the lower, subordinated tranches of asset-backed structured debt instruments. MAM eventually reclassified certain of these structured debt instruments in the March 2008 Form N-Q Holdings Report for the three (3) open-end funds.
17. In SEC filings, MAM compared the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund (collectively the "RMK high-yield funds"), which contained approximately two-
 
thirds (2/3) structured debt instruments, to the Lehman Brothers U.S. High Yield Index ("Lehman Ba Index"). The Lehman Ba Index is not directly comparable to the RMK high-yield funds given the fact that the Lehman Ba Index contained only corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments.
18. Certain marketing materials and reports minimized the risks and volatility associated with investing in funds largely comprised of structured debt instruments. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and in previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, MAM and MKC marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund as a fund appropriate for "Capital Preservation & Income." MAM later revised the Intermediate Bond Fund glossy in September 2007 by removing the caption "Capital Preservation & Income" and replacing it with "Income & Growth," and by removing the word "stability," which had previously been used to describe the fund.
19. The Intermediate Bond Fund glossies dated June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007, stated that the Intermediate Bond Fund "does not invest in speculative derivatives." However, the Intermediate Bond Fund did use derivatives, including interest-only strips, and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), which are derived from the mezzanine and lower tranches of other debt securities.
20. Respondent MKC through WMS labeled the Intermediate Bond Fund with varying names. None of the three labels "Taxable Fixed Income", "Enhanced Low-Correlation" and "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond" used by MKC adequately portrayed the nature of the Intermediate Bond Fund, of which approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the portfolio was invested in the mezzanine or lower subordinated tranches of structured debt instruments. The label "Gov't/Corp Bond," which first appeared on the December 31, 2006 profile sheet, was never changed after that date.
 
21. During the period January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, preceding the collapse of the subprime market, MAM made 262 downward price adjustments for the purpose of adjusting the net asset value ("NAV") of the Funds. In some instances, MAM's communications led MKC, through its sales force, to actively discourage investors from selling the Fundseven while fund prices continued to decline  by advising investors to "hold the course." Some members of MKC, MAM, and their management personnel continued during this period to advise FAs and investors to buy the Funds through, statements that characterized the decline as "a buying opportunity."
inter alia,
22. MKC and MAM failed to adequately supervise the flow of information to the MKC sales force concerning the Funds. For example, in conference calls with the sales force, the senior portfolio manager for the Funds cited sub-prime fears and liquidity as the primary factors for a decline in the net asset value of the Funds without fully explaining the market impact on certain securities held by the Funds.
23. WMS did not complete a thorough annual due diligence report of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in 2007. A fixed income analyst for WMS, attempted to complete an annual due diligence review of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in the summer of 2007, but was unsuccessful due to Kelsoe's and MAM's failure to provide sufficient information and Kelsoe's failure to be available for a meeting during normal operating hours. Subsequently, WMS failed to notify the MKC sales force of WMS's failure to complete the annual on-site due diligence review. An incomplete draft of WMS's annual due diligence report for internal use only was submitted by the WMS analyst, but it was neither completed nor released to the sales force.
 
24. On July 31, 2007, WMS dropped coverage of all proprietary products, which included the funds for which WMS could not produce a thorough report. This fact was not disclosed in writing to the sales force until November 2007.
25. Based on WMS's one (1) page, one (1) paragraph report of the August 18, 2006 on-site due diligence review, the due diligence visits by the WMS fixed income analysts were not "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive," as advertised by MKC. There are two (2) WMS profiles of the Intermediate Bond Fund dated September 30, 2006. The sections titled "investment philosophy" in the profile sheets contain substantial differences. The first WMS profile for the Intermediate Bond Fund, based on the information for the quarter ending September 30, 2006, is titled "Taxable Fixed Income." The first profile, much like previous quarterly profiles, does not refer to any of the holdings as "inferior tranches." Neither does it mention potential lack of demand and lack of liquidity. Further, it includes the statement that "The fund does not use derivatives or leverage."
26. WMS's changing of the Intermediate Bond Fund profile label indicated WMS's inability and lack of supervision in the creation of these marketing pieces to accurately categorize the Intermediate Bond Fund. Within one (1) quarter, WMS identified the Intermediate Bond Fund three (3) different ways:
September 30, 2006 - Taxable Fixed Income
September 30, 2006 - Enhanced Low Correlations Fixed Income
December 31, 2006 - Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond
27. The "Gov't/Corp Bond" label implied that the Intermediate Bond Fund holdings were predominately government and corporate bonds carrying a certain degree of safety. This improper labeling indicates a failure to conduct proper due diligence, a duty of MKC.
28. In addition, all profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund from March 31, 2006, through June 30, 2007, stated that Kelsoe was joined by Rip Mecherle ("Mecherle") as assistant
 
portfolio manager. Mecherle left MAM in 2004. The failure to detect the errors in promotional materials relating to management does not reflect the "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive due diligence" claimed by MKC in its sales and promotional material distributed to investors.
 
29. Respondent MAM indicated that risks and volatility were minimized in the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, Respondents marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund's broad diversification of asset classes three (3) times on the first page of each of the glossies, when in fact, approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio was composed of structured debt instruments which included risky assets. The four (4) closed-end funds also advertised diversification among asset classes, despite the similarities in asset classes as set forth in Section C below.
30. Furthermore, the glossies emphasized the Select High Income Fund's net asset value as being less volatile than typical high-yield funds. The glossies failed to state that a reason for any lower volatility was that the structured debt instruments within the Select High Income Fund were not actively traded, and that the daily fair value adjustments of certain holdings were imprecise in a market that became illiquid.
31. In certain cases, MKC and its sales force failed to obtain adequate suitability information regarding risk tolerance that was necessary to determine suitability for using the Funds for regular brokerage account customers. New account forms for regular brokerage accounts provided a menu of four (4) investment objectives to choose from: Growth, Income, Speculation, and Tax-Advantaged. Risk tolerance was not addressed by the form, was not noted
 
by the sales force whose records were examined during the investigation, and may not have been taken into consideration when the sales force made its recommendations.
32. In at least one instance, an agent of MKC provided a customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
 
33. Marketing glossies prepared by MAM for the Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund contained allocation pie charts dividing the categories of holdings by percentages of the total portfolio. Between June 2004 and March 2005, the pie charts for both funds changed significantly: MAM divided the category originally titled "asset-backed securities" into multiple categories. These changes indicated that the holdings of these Funds were more diversified than they actually were because the majority of the portfolios continued to be invested in asset-backed securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34. The pie charts in the glossies for the High Income Fund were also changed in a similar manner between June 2004 and March 2005.
35. Similar changes were also made to pie charts in glossies for the Advantage Income Fund and the Strategic Income Fund between December 2004 and March 2005.
36. Respondent MKC used different index comparisons in the Select High Income Fund "Profile" sheets produced by WMS. These profile sheets compared the Select High Income Fund to the Credit Suisse First Boston High Yield Index, as well as the Merrill Lynch US High Yield Cash BB Index. These two indices only contain corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments. The Select High Income Fund contained substantially different risks than the portfolios within either of the two indices, and therefore these benchmarks were not directly comparable.
 
37. While the models for WMS managed accounts limited the use of the Intermediate Bond Fund to certain percentages, usually no more than fifteen percent (15%) of any client's portfolio, there was no such limitation for non-managed accounts. Additionally, no guidance was provided to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of the Intermediate Bond Fund in non-managed accounts. As a result, certain customer accounts contained in excess of a twenty percent (20%) concentration of the Intermediate Bond Fund.
38. The four closed-end funds, the Select High Income Fund and the Intermediate Bond Fund were all highly correlated. However, MKC provided limited guidance to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of combinations of the Funds in non-managed accounts.
39. Up until six (6) months before the collapse of the fund, WMS classified the Intermediate Bond Fund as "Core Plus" in the Fixed Income section of the Select List. At that
 
time it was reclassified as "Alternative Fixed Income" in the Non-Traditional section of the Select List. Yet MKC's concentration for many of its non-WMS managed accounts continued to be above twenty percent (20%) which could indicate its use as a core holding. An e-mail chain from Gary S. Stringer of WMS states as follows:
Stringer Gary [Gary.Stringer@morgankeegan.com]
From:
Tuesday, May 15, 2007 4:10 PM
Sent:
Hennek, Roderick
To:
Re: RMK Intermediate Bond Fund
Subject:
Rod,
I did notice that you didn't cc anyone on your email, and I appreciate that. We've always had good, candid conversation.
You have a good point in that we have some low correlation equity strategies on the Traditional side. What worries me about this bond fund is the tracking error and the potential risks associated with all that asset-backed exposure. They think the return are great because the PM is so smart. He definitely is smart, but it's the same as thinking your small cap manager is a hero because he beat the S&P for the last 5 years.
Mr & Mrs Jones don't expect that kind of risk from their bond funds. The bond exposure is not supposed to be where you take risks. I'd bet that most of the people who hold that fund have no idea what's it's actually invested in. I'm just as sure that most of our FAs have no idea what's in that fund either.
If people are using RMK as their core, or only bond fund, I think it's only a matter of time before we have some very unhappy investors.
(Emphasis added.).
Certain MKC brokers and branch managers interviewed during the investigation stated that they received limited or no guidance as to appropriate concentrations of the Funds to use within clients' accounts.
 
40. An agent of MKC provided one known customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
 
41. The MKC agent referred to in the preceding paragraph created a sales illustration in which he compared the returns for the Intermediate Bond Fund to the returns for traditional bank CDs. The agent used the illustration in order to market the Intermediate Bond Fund to bank customers. The agent stated that he created the illustration and that the illustration was not reviewed or approved by appropriate supervisory personnel of MKC. The chart fails to address any risks of investing in the Intermediate Bond Fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
 
42. Carter Anthony, President of MAM from 2001 until the end of 2006, has testified under oath that he conducted performance reviews of all MAM mutual fund managers that included reviews of their portfolios and trading. However, he testified that he did not conduct the same supervisory review and oversight of Kelsoe and the Funds because he was instructed to "leave Kelsoe alone." MAM denies that any such instruction was given.
43. In December 2001, Kelsoe signed a new account form as branch manager, when he, in fact, was never a branch manager nor held any supervisory/compliance licenses. Proper supervision of Kelsoe's activities would have detected such an unauthorized action on his part.
 
44. MAM's Fund Management fundamental and qualitative research was touted in marketing and research material.
45. MAM, through its Portfolio Managers, selected securities for investments by the Funds' portfolios. MAM was consulted regarding the fair valuation of certain securities held by the portfolios. Adequate documentation was not retained as to pricing adjustments recommended by MAM to be made to certain of the securities.
 
46. WMS performed annual due diligence reviews of certain of the Funds and Fund management (MAM and Kelsoe). In mid-2007, MAM and Kelsoe did not provide sufficient information to allow completion of the 2007 annual due diligence review conducted by MKC through WMS. Kelsoe did not make himself available for a meeting during normal operating hours, further delaying the completion of WMS's on-site due diligence review. As a consequence, the report for two of the open-end funds was not completed. By August 2007, WMS dropped coverage of proprietary products and a report for 2007 was never released to the MKC sales force.
 
47. In addition to his duties regarding management of the Funds and selection of investments, Kelsoe was responsible for reviewing information regarding holdings of the Funds to be included in marketing materials and filings with the SEC. Kelsoe also was responsible for supervising his staff's involvement with these processes, as well as their interaction with third parties. Kelsoe had the most knowledge at MAM about the nature of the holdings of the Funds, including the types of securities being purchased or sold for the Funds, the risks associated with the holdings, and the correlation of the holdings among the Funds. Kelsoe and his staff provided information for the preparation of regulatory filings, marketing materials, reports and communications about the Funds. Kelsoe contributed to and delivered commentaries for the Funds and management discussions of fund performance. The SEC filings for the Funds, for which Kelsoe and his staff furnished information regarding holdings of each of the Funds, were provided to Kelsoe for his review prior to filing.
48. Kelsoe contributed to and was aware of the usage of the glossies and certain other marketing materials for the Funds by MAM, as described above, including the
 
descriptions of the Funds, the allocation pie charts, the use of benchmarks, and characterizations of risks and features of the Funds.
49. Kelsoe's involvement in the fair valuation process for securities held by the Funds during the period from January 1, 2007 to July 31, 2007, including influencing some dealer confirmations that were returned, contributed to certain inaccurate valuations of selected holdings on various dates during that period.
50. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe did not retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds. These recommendations were used on occasion in the calculation of the daily net asset values of the Funds.
51. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe failed to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain MKC FAs.
1. The Division is responsible for the enforcement of laws governing the issuance, sale, and other transactions relative to securities pursuant to the Act.
2. MKC and/or MAM engaged in conduct and practices prohibited by T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(G)
ENN
ODE
NN
2
, T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(6)(a)(15), FINRA Rule 2010,
ENN
OMP
EGS
 
 
NASD Rule IM-2210-1, T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(J) and T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(7)(b), including:
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
OMP
EGS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. MKC and/or MAM engaged in conduct and practices prohibited by T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(G), T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(6)(a)(15), NASD Rule 3010, and T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(J) by failing to reasonably supervise their agents, employees and associated persons in the following manner:
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
OMP
EGS
ENN
ODE
NN
 
 
, 205 F.3d 408, 413 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting , 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949). The Tennessee Supreme Court has stated "the term willfully' in Tennessee  requires only that the  [person]  acted deliberately and was fully aware of his or her conduct." State v. Casper, 297 S.W.3d 676 (Tenn.Supr.Ct. 2009).
SEC
Hughes v. SEC
 
 
 
 
 
4. MKC and/or MAM engaged in conduct and practices prohibited by T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(G), T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(6)(a)(3), T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(6)(c)(4), T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(6)(a)(15), and NASD Rule 2310 by failing to make suitable recommendations to some investors as demonstrated by the following:
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
OMP
EGS
ENN
OMP
EGS
ENN
OMP
EGS
 
 
 
5. MKC engaged in conduct and practices prohibited by T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(G), T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(6)(a)(3), T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(6)(a)(15), and NASD Rule 3010 by failing to enforce their supervisory procedures in the following manner:
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
OMP
EGS
ENN
OMP
EGS
 
 
6. MKC and/or MAM engaged in conduct and practices prohibited by T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(B), T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(1)(a) and T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(7)(a)(3) by failing, in many instances, to review correspondence and marketing materials used by associated persons to sell the Funds:
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
OMP
EGS
ENN
OMP
EGS
 
 
 
7. In certain cases, MAM and MKC engaged in conduct and practices prohibited by T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(G) and T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(6)(c)(4) by inappropriately recommending the purchase of the Funds for client portfolios without reasonable justification that said recommendation was suitable for the client.
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
OMP
EGS
8. In violation of T. C A.  48-2-111, T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(G), T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(1)(a)(15), T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(6)(a)(15), FINRA Rule 2010 and NASD Rule 2210(d), MKC distributed marketing materials and MAM distributed disclosure materials that were inaccurate:
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
OMP
EGS
ENN
OMP
EGS
 
 
 
 
 
9. In violation of T. C A.  48-2-111 and T. C. R. & R. 0780-4-3-.02(1)(a), Kelsoe failed to retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds.
ENN
ODE
NN
ENN
OMP
EGS
10. Kelsoe engaged in conduct and practices prohibited by T. C A.  48-2-112(a)(2)(J) by failing to reasonably supervise his staff and by failing to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that were circulated to certain Morgan Keegan Financial Advisors and characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity,".
ENN
ODE
NN
11. In further violation of the Tennessee securities laws, Kelsoe participated in the advertising and supervisory violations set forth above.
12. As a result of the foregoing, the Commissioner finds this Consent Order and the following relief appropriate and in the public interest, and consistent with the Act.
On the basis of the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and MKC's, MAM's and Kelsoe's consent to the entry of this Order,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:
1. Entry of this Consent Order concludes the investigation by the Division and any other action that the Division could commence under applicable Tennessee law on behalf of the
 
Division as it relates to Kelsoe, MKC and MAM, any of their affiliates, and any of their past or present employees or other agents in any way relating to the Funds, and acceptance by the Division of the settlement offer and payments referenced in this Consent Order shall be in satisfaction of and preclude any action that the Division could commence under applicable Tennessee law against the foregoing; provided however, that excluded from and not covered by this paragraph are (a) individual sales practice violations that could have been brought even had the violations asserted herein against MKC, MAM, or Kelsoe not occurred, and (b) any claims by the Division arising from or relating to violations of the provisions contained in this Consent Order. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Division from opposing a request for expungement by a past or present employee or other agent before a regulatory or self-regulatory entity, any court of competent jurisdiction, or any hearing officer, under circumstances it deems appropriate. This paragraph also has no application to the individual respondents who are not parties/signatories to this Consent Order.
2. This Consent Order is entered into for the purpose of resolving in full the referenced multistate investigation with respect to Respondents who have executed this Consent Order and any of their affiliates, as such investigation relates to the allegations of the Notice of Proposed Administrative Action. This Consent Order does not nullify, dismiss, impact, or otherwise affect investigations or proceedings as to any individual or person who is not a party or an affiliate of said party to this Consent Order.
3. The findings of fact, conclusions of law and order contained in this Consent Order have been extensively negotiated. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or at law or in equity to the contrary, nothing contained in this Consent Order, including without any limitation any finding of fact, allegation, assertion, or conclusion of law herein, shall preclude, impact,
 
affect, limit, or bar in any manner whatsoever any claims or actions against, or defenses of, Sullivan, Stringer, or Wood based on the same circumstances and/or legal theories contained herein. This Consent Order shall not be admissible as evidence of any alleged violations in any proceeding brought by Regulators against the individual respondents other than Kelsoe.
4. MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe will from violating the Act, and will with the Act.
CEASE AND DESIST
COMPLY
5. Pursuant to this Tennessee Consent Order (Docket No.: 12.06-107077J/Order No. 11-005) and related Consent Orders of the states of Alabama (SC-2010-0016), South Carolina (File No.: 08011), Kentucky (Agency Case No.: 2010-AH-021/Administrative Action No.: 10-PPC0267), and Mississippi (Administrative Proceeding File No. S-08-0050), the offer of settlement in SEC Administrative Proceeding (File No. 3-13847) (the "SEC Order") and the FINRA Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent No. 2007011164502, MKC and MAM shall pay, in resolution of each of these matters, within ten (10) days of the entry of the SEC Order the sum of two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000.00) to be distributed as follows: 1) one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000.00) to the SEC's Fair Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of the SEC Order; and 2) one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000.00) to a States' Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of this Consent Order. Any costs, expenses, and charges associated with the Fair Fund and States' Fund management and distributions shall be paid by MKC and MAM and shall not diminish the fund corpus. The Fair Fund and the State's Fund shall be distributed pursuant to distribution plans drawn up by the administrator(s) ("Fair Fund Administrator" for the SEC's portion and "Fund Administrator" for the States' portion). The administrator(s) are to be respectively chosen by a representative
 
designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Tennessee, and South Carolina ("States' Fund Representative"), and the SEC. Nothing in this paragraph shall require or limit the SEC's and the States' choice of fund administrators which may or may not be the same entity or person for both funds. Respondents shall pay the sum of four thousand, nine hundred dollars ($4,900.00) to the Division as reimbursement of direct and indirect costs and expenses of the State's cost for investigating this matter, which shall be payable as follows:
6. MKC and MAM shall pay the sum of two million five hundred thirty-nine thousand two hundred and fifty-four dollars ($2,539,254.00) to the Division as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of Tennessee's share of the state settlement amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00), which shall be payable in two separate checks as follows: 1) two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) made payable to:
and 2) five hundred thirty-nine thousand two hundred and fifty-four dollars ($539,254.00) made payable to:
 
All funds shall be delivered to the office of the Tennessee Department of Commerce and Insurance, Securities Division within ten (10) business days of the later of the execution of this Consent Order or the date on which the SEC Order is entered. In the event another state securities regulator determines not to accept the settlement offer, the total amount of the payment to the State of Tennessee shall not be affected.
7. MKC and MAM shall also pay the sum of twenty-three thousand dollars ($23,000.00) to the North American Securities Administrators Association ("NASAA") as reimbursement for its costs, expended on states' behalf.
8. Kelsoe shall cause to be paid the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) to the Division as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of Tennessee's proportionate share of the state settlement amount of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00), which shall be payable as follows:
All funds shall be delivered to the office of the Division within ten (10) business days of the later of the execution of this Consent Order or the date on which the SEC Order is entered. Acceptance of the settlement offer and the payment referenced above in this paragraph by the Division shall be in full satisfaction of and preclude any action that the Division could commence under applicable Tennessee law against Kelsoe related in any way to his management of the Funds, and otherwise disposes of claims against Kelsoe as set forth in this Order.
 
9. As additional consideration for the dismissal of the administrative proceeding by the Division, Kelsoe does hereby agree to the of all existing registrations and/or licenses and to an :
REVOCATION
Order of Permanent Bar
a. He shall not apply for registration as an issuer agent, broker-dealer agent or investment adviser representative in the State of Tennessee.
b. He shall not serve as an officer, director, or manager of, or issuer of interests in, a mutual fund, money market fund, pooled-investments or similar securities and investment vehicles which are publicly offered or sold in the State of Tennessee.
10. If any payments are not made by MKC, MAM, or on behalf of Kelsoe, the Division may vacate this Consent Order, at its sole discretion, upon thirty (30) days notice to MKC and/or MAM, or as appropriate, Kelsoe, and, without opportunity for an administrative hearing, enter a final order or decree if such default is not cured to the satisfaction of the regulators within the thirty (30) day notice period. Any dispute related to any payments required under this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Tennessee without regard to any choice of law principles.
11. This Consent Order shall not disqualify MKC and MAM, or any of their affiliates or registered representatives from any business that they otherwise are qualified or licensed to perform under any applicable state law and is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualification or suspension in any state. Further, this Consent Order is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualifications contained in the federal securities law, the rules and regulations thereunder, the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations, or various states' securities laws including but not limited to any disqualifications from relying upon the registration exemptions or safe harbor provisions.
 
12. MKC, MAM, and all of their existing and future affiliates and subsidiaries are prohibited from creating, offering or selling a proprietary fund
3
that is a registered investment company and is marketed and sold to investors other than institutional and other qualified investors as defined in Section 3(a)(54) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.  78c(a)(54), ("proprietary fund") for a period of two (2) years from the entry of the first of the State Consent Orders to be entered in this matter. MKC, MAM, their affiliates or subsidiaries, may seek permission to resume offering or begin offering a proprietary fund in Tennessee after the lapse of the first year of the prohibition, but may not proceed with the offer and sale of such proprietary fund in Tennessee prior to receiving the express written consent and approval of the Commissioner.
13. In addition to any state regulatory audits or examinations authorized by T. C A.  48-2-111(d), the state regulatory authority may conduct appropriate audits or examinations of the offices and branch offices of the Respondents MKC and MAM. Appropriate costs associated with such audits or examinations conducted within two (2) years from the date of this Consent Order, shall be borne by MKC and/or MAM. This provision in no way limits the assessment of costs by states which routinely assess registrants with the costs of audits.
ENN
ODE
NN
14. If prior to January 1, 2016, MKC and/or MAM shall again form and sell any proprietary investment products
4
, they shall at that time retain, for a period of three (3) years, at
 
 
their own expense, an independent auditor, acceptable to the representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Tennessee, and South Carolina ("States' Representative") and the SEC. The independent auditor cannot be an affiliated entity of MKC or MAM. Further, to ensure the independence of the independent auditor, MKC and/or MAM: (a) shall not have the authority to terminate the independent auditor without prior written approval of the States' Representative; (b) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client relationship with the independent auditor and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other privilege or doctrine to prevent the independent auditor from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the States; and (c) during the period of engagement and for a period of two (2) years after the engagement, shall not enter into any employment, customer, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with the independent auditor.
The scope of the independent auditor's engagement shall be approved by the States' Representative prior to the commencement of the audit, and shall include, but is not limited to, reviews and examinations of:
 
 
 
common control with MKC or MAM. Nor shall this definition apply to future proprietary products or offerings that are created following such acquisition, merger or other form of business combination, unless such proprietary products are created by MKC or MAM.
 
 
15. Further, the independent auditor shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. MKC and MAM shall:
 
 
 
 
17. MKC and MAM shall retain within sixty (60) days of the entry of this Consent Order, at their own expense, an independent consultant ("Consultant"), acceptable to the States' Representative, and the SEC. The Consultant shall review MKC's and/or MAM's: (i) current written supervisory and compliance procedures concerning product suitability; (ii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures regarding recommendations and disclosures relating to registered investment companies; (iii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures relating to advertising and sales literature regarding the purchase and sale of registered investment companies; and (iv) the implementation and effectiveness of (i) through (iii); provided that the lookback period for (i) through (iii) shall not exceed the twelve (12) month period prior to the entry of this Consent Order.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. MKC and MAM shall provide, for a period of three (3) years, to all of their registered agents and investment adviser representatives mandatory, comprehensive, and ongoing (i) product/offering training on each of the proprietary products/offerings that they sell or recommend to clients, and (ii) training on suitability and risks of investments generally. The
 
training required pursuant to this paragraph shall be in addition to any continuing education training required to maintain the registrations of the registered agents and investment adviser representatives and shall include, at a minimum, training on all of the following:
 
 
 
 
19. For training related to proprietary products/offerings, MKC and MAM shall develop and implement course evaluations to be completed by each FA in order to assess the effectiveness of the training.
20. MKC and MAM shall;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21. One person shall not simultaneously hold the positions of General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer for either Respondent.
22. Nothing herein shall preclude the state of Tennessee, its departments, agencies, boards, commissions, authorities, political subdivisions, and corporations (collectively "State Entities"), other than the Division and only to the extent set forth herein, from asserting any claims, causes of action, or applications for compensatory, nominal and/or punitive damages, administrative, civil, criminal, or injunctive relief against MKC and MAM in connection with the marketing and sales practices of the Funds at MKC or MAM.
23. Any dispute or default other than related to payments as referenced in paragraph 10 related to this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Tennessee without regard to any choice of law principles.
 
24. Unless otherwise stipulated, the parties intend that the monies allocated through the SEC's Fair Fund and /or the States' Fund, including the monies allocated pursuant to this Consent Order, to the investors of any given State will be treated as an offset against any order for MKC, MAM or Kelsoe, or any of them, to pay any amount (whether designated as restitution, fines or otherwise compensatory in nature) in any action brought by that State or any of the regulatory agencies thereof and not concluded by this Consent Order. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as delineated in paragraphs 44 thru 46, this Consent Order is presumed to be treated as a settlement for evidentiary purposes not as evidence of either damage or liability itself. MKC and MAM further agree that in the event they should enter into a consent order prior to an adjudication on the merits with another State's securities regulator which provides each investor a higher return of losses per invested dollar than under the terms of this Consent Order, then the Division may, at its option, obtain the same payout of losses per invested dollar for the investors of this State.
25. Respondents MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe agree not to make or permit to be made any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any finding in this Consent Order or creating the impression that this Consent Order is without factual basis. Nothing in this Paragraph affects MKC's, MAM's, or Kelsoe's: (i) testimonial obligations, or (ii) right to take legal or factual positions in defense of litigation or arbitration or in defense of other legal proceedings in which the Division is not a party.
26. In connection with any action by the Division against Sullivan, Wood, or Stringer, MKC and MAM will produce, upon reasonable notice but without service of a subpoena, any and all documents and other information requested by the Division, and make available witnesses under their control for any further testimony, investigations, administrative
 
proceedings or hearings and shall cooperate fully in any and all current or future administrative proceedings against those parties. If any documents or other information requested is claimed as "privileged", Respondents shall provide a "privilege log" and any further dispute concerning production of said document(s) shall be submitted to a hearing officer under applicable state rules or procedures for final determination. Nothing herein shall affect any statutory authority of the Division, including but not limited to, inspections, visits, examinations, and/or the production of documents.
27. This Consent Order shall be binding upon MKC and MAM, and their successors and assigns, with respect to all conduct subject to the provisions above and all future obligations, responsibilities, undertakings, commitments, limitations, restrictions, events, and conditions.
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
 
 
 
Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("Respondents") hereby acknowledge that they have been served with a copy of this Consent Order ("Consent Order"), have read the foregoing Consent Order, are aware of each of their right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and have waived the same.
Respondents admit the jurisdiction of the Division; admit to the allegations in paragraphs 44 thru 46 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding; and Respondents further consent to entry of this Consent Order by the Division as settlement of the issues contained in this Consent Order.
Respondents enter into this Consent Order voluntarily and represent that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the Division or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the Division to induce Respondents to enter into this Consent Order other than as set forth in the Order.
represents that he/she is of Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Asset Management, Inc. to enter into this Consent Order for and on behalf of Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
                                         
                                        
represents that he/she is of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. to enter into this Consent Order for and on behalf of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
                                         
                                        
Respondents agree that they shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of Tennessee for any monetary penalty or restitution that Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order. Respondents understand and acknowledge
 
that these provisions are not intended to imply that the Division would agree that any other amounts Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                        
        
 
 
 
 
STATE OF            )
                
                                                ) ss.
County of              )
                
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                        
        
 
 
 
 
James C. Kelsoe, Jr. ("Individual Respondent") hereby acknowledges that he has been served with a copy of this Consent Order ("Consent Order"), has read the foregoing Consent Order, is aware of his right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and has waived the same.
Individual Respondent admits the jurisdiction of the Division; but otherwise neither admits nor denies any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this Consent Order; and Individual Respondent further consents to entry of this Consent Order by the Division as settlement of the issues contained in this Consent Order.
Individual Respondent enters into this Consent Order voluntarily and represents that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the Division or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the Division to induce Individual Respondent to enter into this Consent Order.
Individual Respondent agrees, if applicable, that he shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of Tennessee, for any monetary penalty that Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order. Individual Respondent understands and acknowledges that these provisions are not intended to imply that the Division would agree that any other amounts Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
 
Dated this day of June, 2011.
        
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of June, 2011.
                                        
        
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.8
 
WHEREAS, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("MKC") is a broker-dealer in the state of []; and
state
WHEREAS, Morgan Asset Management, Inc. ("MAM") is an affiliate of MKC and notice-filed as an investment adviser in the state of []; and
state
WHEREAS, James C. Kelsoe, Jr. (hereinafter, sometimes referred to as "Kelsoe" or the "Individual Respondent") was, at relevant times, employed by MAM and registered through MKC,; and
WHEREAS, coordinated investigations into the activities of MKC, MAM and Kelsoe, in connection with certain violations of the [] Securities Act and other state securities acts, [] ("Act") and certain business practices, have been conducted by a multistate task force ("Task Force") and an additional investigation has been conducted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") (collectively, the "Regulators"); and
state
state statutory cite
WHEREAS, MKC and MAM have cooperated with the Task Force conducting the investigations by responding to inquiries, providing documentary evidence and other materials, and providing Regulators with access to facts relating to the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent have advised the Regulators of their agreement to resolve the investigations; and
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent elect to permanently waive any right to a hearing and appeal under [], with respect to this Administrative Consent Order (the "Consent Order"); and
state statute
WHEREAS, MKC, MAM, and the Individual Respondent admit the jurisdictional allegations herein, and MKC and MAM admit to the allegations in paragraphs 41 through 43 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but MKC, MAM and Kelsoe, except as admitted above, otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding;
NOW, THEREFORE, the [], as administrator of the Act, hereby enters this Consent Order:
state agency
1. Respondent ("MKC") (CRD No. 4161), a Tennessee corporation, is a registered broker-dealer with the [] and the SEC, as well as a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC. At all relevant times MKC was properly registered and notice-filed with the []. MKC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation ("RFC") which is headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. MKC's primary business address is 50 Front Street, Morgan Keegan Tower, Memphis, Tennessee 38103-9980.
Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
state agency
state agency
 
2. Respondent ("MAM"), a Tennessee corporation, is a federally registered investment adviser with the SEC (CRD No. 111715) and at all relevant times was properly notice-filed with the []. MAM is a wholly owned subsidiary of MK Holding, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of RFC. MAM is headquartered in Alabama with a principal business address of 1901 6
Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
state agency
th
Avenue North, 4
th
Floor, Birmingham, Alabama 35203.
3. ("WMS"), a division of MKC, developed, recommended, and implemented asset allocation strategies for MKC and was to perform due diligence on traditional and alternative funds and fund managers for the benefit of MKC, its Financial Advisers (alternatively referred to as "FAs", "sales force" or "agents"), and certain investor clients.
Wealth Management Services
4. ("Kelsoe") (CRD No. 2166416) was Senior Portfolio Manager of the Funds, as defined in paragraph II.5 below, and was responsible for selecting and purchasing the holdings for the Funds. Kelsoe was an employee of MAM and registered through MKC.
James C. Kelsoe, Jr.
5. The seven (7) funds at issue are Regions Morgan Keegan Select Intermediate Bond Fund ("Intermediate Bond Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Select High Income Fund ("Select High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Advantage Income Fund ("Advantage Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan High Income Fund ("High Income Fund"), Regions Morgan Keegan Multi-Sector High Income Fund ("Multi-Sector High Income Fund"), Regions
 
Morgan Keegan Strategic Income Fund ("Strategic Income Fund"), and Regions Morgan Keegan Select Short Term Bond Fund ("Short Term Bond Fund") (collectively, the "Funds").
6. Six (6) of the seven (7) Funds were largely invested in mezzanine and lower subordinated "tranches," or slices, of structured debt instruments, which carry more risk than the senior tranches.
1
The Funds were comprised of many of the same holdings. On June 30, 2007, approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the holdings of the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund were substantially identical. Approximately one quarter (1/4) of the Intermediate Bond Fund's holdings corresponded to the holdings of the five (5) high yield Funds. The Funds were highly correlated, meaning they behaved like each other under similar market conditions. The combination of subordinated tranche holdings and the high correlation of the Funds caused investors owning more than one (1) of these funds to have a heightened risk of over concentration.
7. The Funds were created and managed by Kelsoe, MAM Senior portfolio manager. Kelsoe was also principally responsible for the purchase and sale of all of the holdings in the Funds.
8. When WMS ceased reporting and dropped its coverage of the Select Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund in July 2007, it failed to announce the drop in coverage in writing until November, 2007. WMS did not publish a withdrawal of its prior analysis or recommend the Funds' replacement.
9. On January 19, 2007, WMS announced it was reclassifying the Intermediate Bond Fund on the Select List from "Fixed Income" to "Non-Traditional Fixed Income." Meanwhile,
 
 
WMS profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund continued to label it as the "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond."
10. Certain of the Funds' annual, semi-annual, and quarterly reports filed with the SEC did not adequately disclose the risks of subordinated tranches and the quantity of subordinated tranches held within the Funds.
11. MAM produced quarterly glossies for all seven (7) Funds. In the glossies, MAM did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
12. MKC, through WMS, produced quarterly Fund Profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund, the Select High Income Fund, and the Short Term Bond Fund that did not adequately describe the risks of owning the lower tranches of structured debt instruments or the quantity of such holdings within the Funds.
13. In SEC filings and state notice filings of March and June 2007 involving the Funds, Four Hundred Million dollars ($400,000,000.00) of what MAM characterized as corporate bonds and preferred stocks were, in fact, the lower, subordinated tranches of asset-backed structured debt instruments. MAM eventually reclassified certain of these structured debt instruments in the March 2008 Form N-Q Holdings Report for the three (3) open-end funds.
14. In SEC filings, MAM compared the four (4) closed-end funds and the Select High Income Fund (collectively the "RMK high-yield funds"), which contained approximately two-thirds (2/3) structured debt instruments, to the Lehman Brothers U.S. High Yield Index ("Lehman Ba Index"). The Lehman Ba Index is not directly comparable to the RMK high-yield funds given the fact that the Lehman Ba Index contained only corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments.
 
15. Certain marketing materials and reports minimized the risks and volatility associated with investing in funds largely comprised of structured debt instruments. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and in previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, MAM and MKC marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund as a fund appropriate for "Capital Preservation & Income." MAM later revised the Intermediate Bond Fund glossy in September 2007 by removing the caption "Capital Preservation & Income" and replacing it with "Income & Growth," and by removing the word "stability," which had previously been used to describe the fund.
16. The Intermediate Bond Fund glossies dated June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007, stated that the Intermediate Bond Fund "does not invest in speculative derivatives." However, the Intermediate Bond Fund did use derivatives, including interest-only strips, and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), which are derived from the mezzanine and lower tranches of other debt securities.
17. Respondent MKC through WMS labeled the Intermediate Bond Fund with varying names. None of the three labels "Taxable Fixed Income", "Enhanced Low-Correlation" and "Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond" used by MKC adequately portrayed the nature of the Intermediate Bond Fund, of which approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the portfolio was invested in the mezzanine or lower subordinated tranches of structured debt instruments. The label "Gov't/Corp Bond," which first appeared on the December 31, 2006 profile sheet, was never changed after that date.
A.
SUPERVISION AND SUPERVISORY DUE DILIGENCE
18. During the period January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, preceding the collapse of the subprime market, MAM made 262 downward price adjustments for the purpose of adjusting the net asset value ("NAV") of the Funds. In some instances, MAM's communications
 
led MKC, through its sales force, to actively discourage investors from selling the Fundseven while fund prices continued to decline  by advising investors to "hold the course." Some members of MKC, MAM, and their management personnel continued during this period to advise FAs and investors to buy the Funds through, , statements that characterized the decline as "a buying opportunity."
inter alia
19. MKC and MAM failed to adequately supervise the flow of information to the MKC sales force concerning the Funds. For example, in conference calls with the sales force, the senior portfolio manager for the Funds cited sub-prime fears and liquidity as the primary factors for a decline in the net asset value of the Funds without fully explaining the market impact on certain securities held by the Funds.
20. WMS did not complete a thorough annual due diligence report of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in 2007. A fixed income analyst for WMS, attempted to complete an annual due diligence review of the open-end funds and the management of the open-end funds in the summer of 2007, but was unsuccessful due to Kelsoe's and MAM's failure to provide sufficient information and Kelsoe's failure to be available for a meeting during normal operating hours. Subsequently, WMS failed to notify the MKC sales force of WMS's failure to complete the annual on-site due diligence review. An incomplete draft of WMS's annual due diligence report for internal use only was submitted by the WMS analyst, but it was neither completed nor released to the sales force.
21. On July 31, 2007, WMS dropped coverage of all proprietary products, which included the funds for which WMS could not produce a thorough report. This fact was not disclosed in writing to the sales force until November 2007.
 
22. Based on WMS's one (1) page, one (1) paragraph report of the August 18, 2006 on-site due diligence review, the due diligence visits by the WMS fixed income analysts were not "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive," as advertised by MKC. There are two (2) WMS profiles of the Intermediate Bond Fund dated September 30, 2006. The sections titled "investment philosophy" in the profile sheets contain substantial differences. The first WMS profile for the Intermediate Bond Fund, based on the information for the quarter ending September 30, 2006, is titled "Taxable Fixed Income." The first profile, much like previous quarterly profiles, does not refer to any of the holdings as "inferior tranches." Neither does it mention potential lack of demand and lack of liquidity. Further, it includes the statement that "The fund does not use derivatives or leverage."
23. WMS's changing of the Intermediate Bond Fund profile label indicated WMS's inability and lack of supervision in the creation of these marketing pieces to accurately categorize the Intermediate Bond Fund. Within one (1) quarter, WMS identified the Intermediate Bond Fund three (3) different ways:
September 30, 2006 - Taxable Fixed Income
September 30, 2006 - Enhanced Low Correlations Fixed Income
December 31, 2006 - Intermediate Gov't/Corp Bond
24. The "Gov't/Corp Bond" label implied that the Intermediate Bond Fund holdings were predominately government and corporate bonds carrying a certain degree of safety. This improper labeling indicates a failure to conduct proper due diligence, a duty of MKC.
25. In addition, all profiles for the Intermediate Bond Fund from March 31, 2006, through June 30, 2007, stated that Kelsoe was joined by Rip Mecherle ("Mecherle") as assistant portfolio manager. Mecherle left MAM in 2004. The failure to detect the errors in promotional materials relating to management does not reflect the "detailed, thorough, and exhaustive due diligence" claimed by MKC in its sales and promotional material distributed to investors.
 
B.
SUITABILITY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
26. Respondent MAM indicated that risks and volatility were minimized in the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio. In the June 30, 2007 glossy, and previous quarterly glossies created by MAM, Respondents marketed the Intermediate Bond Fund's broad diversification of asset classes three (3) times on the first page of each of the glossies, when in fact, approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the Intermediate Bond Fund portfolio was composed of structured debt instruments which included risky assets. The four (4) closed-end funds also advertised diversification among asset classes, despite the similarities in asset classes as set forth in Section C below.
27. Furthermore, the glossies emphasized the Select High Income Fund's net asset value as being less volatile than typical high-yield funds. The glossies failed to state that a reason for any lower volatility was that the structured debt instruments within the Select High Income Fund were not actively traded, and that the daily fair value adjustments of certain holdings were imprecise in a market that became illiquid.
28. In certain cases, MKC and its sales force failed to obtain adequate suitability information regarding risk tolerance that was necessary to determine suitability for using the Funds for regular brokerage account customers. New account forms for regular brokerage accounts provided a menu of four (4) investment objectives to choose from: Growth, Income, Speculation, and Tax-Advantaged. Risk tolerance was not addressed by the form, was not noted by the sales force whose records were examined during the investigation, and may not have been taken into consideration when the sales force made its recommendations.
29. In at least one instance, an agent of MKC provided a customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) over
 
five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
C.
ADVERTISEMENTS BY RESPONDENTS
30. Marketing glossies prepared by MAM for the Intermediate Bond Fund and Select High Income Fund contained allocation pie charts dividing the categories of holdings by percentages of the total portfolio. Between June 2004 and March 2005, the pie charts for both funds changed significantly: MAM divided the category originally titled "asset-backed securities" into multiple categories. These changes indicated that the holdings of these Funds were more diversified than they actually were because the majority of the portfolios continued to be invested in asset-backed securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31. The pie charts in the glossies for the High Income Fund were also changed in a similar manner between June 2004 and March 2005.
32. Similar changes were also made to pie charts in glossies for the Advantage Income Fund and the Strategic Income Fund between December 2004 and March 2005.
 
33. Respondent MKC used different index comparisons in the Select High Income Fund "Profile" sheets produced by WMS. These profile sheets compared the Select High Income Fund to the Credit Suisse First Boston High Yield Index, as well as the Merrill Lynch US High Yield Cash BB Index. These two indices only contain corporate bonds and no structured debt instruments. The Select High Income Fund contained substantially different risks than the portfolios within either of the two indices, and therefore these benchmarks were not directly comparable.
D.
REQUIRED EXAMINATIONS OF CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS TO DETECT AND PREVENT IRREGULARITIES OR
     
ABUSES
34. While the models for WMS managed accounts limited the use of the Intermediate Bond Fund to certain percentages, usually no more than fifteen percent (15%) of any client's portfolio, there was no such limitation for non-managed accounts. Additionally, no guidance was provided to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of the Intermediate Bond Fund in non-managed accounts. As a result, certain customer accounts contained in excess of a twenty percent (20%) concentration of the Intermediate Bond Fund.
35. The four closed-end funds, the Select High Income Fund and the Intermediate Bond Fund were all highly correlated. However, MKC provided limited guidance to the FAs regarding limiting concentrations of combinations of the Funds in non-managed accounts.
36. Up until six (6) months before the collapse of the fund, WMS classified the Intermediate Bond Fund as "Core Plus" in the Fixed Income section of the Select List. At that time it was reclassified as "Alternative Fixed Income" in the Non-Traditional section of the Select List. Yet MKC's concentration for many of its non-WMS managed accounts continued to be above twenty percent (20%) which could indicate its use as a core holding. An e-mail chain from Gary S. Stringer of WMS states as follows:
 
Stringer Gary [Gary.Stringer@morgankeegan.com]
From:
Tuesday, May 15, 2007 4:10 PM
Sent:
Hennek, Roderick
To:
Re: RMK Intermediate Bond Fund
Subject:
Rod,
I did notice that you didn't cc anyone on your email, and I appreciate that. We've always had good, candid conversation.
You have a good point in that we have some low correlation equity strategies on the Traditional side. What worries me about this bond fund is the tracking error and the potential risks associated with all that asset-backed exposure. They think the return are great because the PM is so smart. He definitely is smart, but it's the same as thinking your small cap manager is a hero because he beat the S&P for the last 5 years.
Mr & Mrs Jones don't expect that kind of risk from their bond funds. The bond exposure is not supposed to be where you take risks. I'd bet that most of the people who hold that fund have no idea what's it's actually invested in. I'm just as sure that most of our FAs have no idea what's in that fund either.
If people are using RMK as their core, or only bond fund, I think it's only a matter of time before we have some very unhappy investors.
(Emphasis added.).
Certain MKC brokers and branch managers interviewed during the investigation stated that they received limited or no guidance as to appropriate concentrations of the Funds to use within clients' accounts.
E.
REQUIREMENT TO CONDUCT AN ADEQUATE AND THOROUGH CORRESPONDENCE REVIEW
37. An agent of MKC provided one known customer with a self-made chart assuming the hypothetical growth of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) over five (5) years, and comparing the rate of return on CDs to the return on the Intermediate Bond Fund. The chart failed to address any risks of investing in the fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
38. The MKC agent referred to in the preceding paragraph created a sales illustration in which he compared the returns for the Intermediate Bond Fund to the returns for traditional bank CDs. The agent used the illustration in order to market the Intermediate Bond Fund to bank customers. The agent stated that he created the illustration and that the illustration was not
 
reviewed or approved by appropriate supervisory personnel of MKC. The chart fails to address any risks of investing in the Intermediate Bond Fund, save the caption "Not FDIC Insured."
F.
SUPERVISION
39. Carter Anthony, President of MAM from 2001 until the end of 2006, has testified under oath that he conducted performance reviews of all MAM mutual fund managers that included reviews of their portfolios and trading. However, he testified that he did not conduct the same supervisory review and oversight of Kelsoe and the Funds because he was instructed to "leave Kelsoe alone." MAM denies that any such instruction was given.
40. In December 2001, Kelsoe signed a new account form as branch manager, when he, in fact, was never a branch manager nor held any supervisory/compliance licenses. Proper supervision of Kelsoe's activities would have detected such an unauthorized action on his part.
G.
MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED BOOKS AND RECORDS
41. MAM's Fund Management fundamental and qualitative research was touted in marketing and research material.
42. MAM, through its Portfolio Managers, selected securities for investments by the Funds' portfolios. MAM was consulted regarding the fair valuation of certain securities held by the portfolios. Adequate documentation was not retained as to pricing adjustments recommended by MAM to be made to certain of the securities.
43. WMS performed annual due diligence reviews of certain of the Funds and Fund management (MAM and Kelsoe). In mid-2007, MAM and Kelsoe did not provide sufficient information to allow completion of the 2007 annual due diligence review conducted by MKC through WMS. Kelsoe did not make himself available for a meeting during normal operating hours, further delaying the completion of WMS's on-site due diligence review. As a consequence, the report for two of the open-end funds was not completed. By August 2007,
 
WMS dropped coverage of proprietary products and a report for 2007 was never released to the MKC sales force.
H.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT OF JAMES KELSOE
44. In addition to his duties regarding management of the Funds and selection of investments, Kelsoe was responsible for reviewing information regarding holdings of the Funds to be included in marketing materials and filings with the SEC. Kelsoe also was responsible for supervising his staff's involvement with these processes, as well as their interaction with third parties. Kelsoe had the most knowledge at MAM about the nature of the holdings of the Funds, including the types of securities being purchased or sold for the Funds, the risks associated with the holdings, and the correlation of the holdings among the Funds. Kelsoe and his staff provided information for the preparation of regulatory filings, marketing materials, reports and communications about the Funds. Kelsoe contributed to and delivered commentaries for the Funds and management discussions of fund performance. The SEC filings for the Funds, for which Kelsoe and his staff furnished information regarding holdings of each of the Funds, were provided to Kelsoe for his review prior to filing.
45. Kelsoe contributed to and was aware of the usage of the glossies and certain other marketing materials for the Funds by MAM, as described above, including the descriptions of the Funds, the allocation pie charts, the use of benchmarks, and characterizations of risks and features of the Funds.
46. Kelsoe's involvement in the fair valuation process for securities held by the Funds during the period from January 1, 2007 to July 31, 2007, including influencing some
 
dealer confirmations that were returned, contributed to certain inaccurate valuations of selected holdings on various dates during that period.
47. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe did not retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds. These recommendations were used on occasion in the calculation of the daily net asset values of the Funds.
48. From January 1, 2007 through July 31, 2007, Kelsoe failed to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain MKC FAs.
1. The [] is responsible for the enforcement of laws governing the issuance, sale, and other transactions relative to securities pursuant to [].
State Agency
State Statute
2. In violation of []
State Statute or rule relevant to lack of adequate supervisory due diligence
2
, MKC and/or MAM conducted and participated in the following practices:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. In violation of [], MKC and/or MAM failed to reasonably supervise their agents, employees and associated persons in the following manner:
State Statute or rule regarding failure to supervise
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. In violation of [], MKC and/or MAM failed to make suitable recommendations to some investors as demonstrated by the following:
State Statute or rule re suitability
 
 
 
5. In violation of [], MKC failed to enforce their supervisory procedures in the following manner:
State Statute or rule regarding firm examination of customer accounts, if any
 
 
6. In violation of [], MKC and/or MAM in many instances failed to review correspondence and marketing materials used by associated persons to sell the Funds:
State Statute or rule regarding review and approval of securities transactions, if any
 
 
 
7. In violation of [], in certain cases, MAM and MKC inappropriately recommended the purchase of the Funds for client portfolios without reasonable justification that said recommendation was suitable for the client.
State Statute or rule governing IAs regarding suitability, if any
 
8. In violation of [], MKC distributed marketing materials and MAM distributed disclosure materials that were inaccurate:
State Statute or rule relating to IAs/ BDs regarding advertising, if any
 
 
 
 
 
9. In violation of the [State Statute or rule regarding maintenance of required books and records], Kelsoe failed to retain documentation relating to his recommendations of price changes of certain securities held by the Funds.
10. In violation of [State Statute or rule regarding failure to supervise], Kelsoe failed to reasonably supervise his staff by failing to review and approve certain emails and other communications of his staff that characterized the downturn of the market for certain securities contained within the Funds as a "buying opportunity," which were circulated to certain Morgan Keegan Financial Advisors.
11. In further violation of the [State] securities laws, Kelsoe participated in the advertising and supervisory violations set forth above.
    
            
 
12. As a result of the foregoing, the [] finds this Consent Order and the following relief appropriate and in the public interest, and consistent with the Act.
state agency
On the basis of the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and MKC's, MAM's and Kelsoe's consents to the entry of this Order,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:
1. Entry of this Consent Order concludes the investigation by the [] and any other action that the [] could commence under applicable [] law on behalf of the [] as it relates to Kelsoe, MKC and MAM, any of their affiliates, and any of their past or present employees or other agents in any way relating to the Funds, and acceptance by the [State Agency]of the settlement offer and payments referenced in this Consent Order shall be in satisfaction of and preclude any action that the [State Agency] could commence under applicable [State] law against the foregoing; provided however, that excluded from and not covered by this paragraph are (a) individual sales practice violations that could have been brought even had the violations asserted herein against MKC, MAM, or Kelsoe not occurred, and (b) any claims by the [] arising from or relating to violations of the provisions contained in this Consent Order. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the [State Agency] from opposing a request for expungement by a past or present employee or other agent before a regulatory or self-regulatory entity, any court of competent jurisdiction, or any hearing officer, under circumstances it deems appropriate. This paragraph also has no application to the individual respondents who are not parties/signatories to this Consent Order.
State Agency
State Agency
STATE
State Agency
State Agency
2. This Consent Order is entered into for the purpose of resolving in full the referenced multistate investigation with respect to Respondents who have executed this Consent
 
Order and any of their affiliates, as such investigation relates to the allegations of the Joint Notice of Intent to Revoke Registration. This Consent Order does not nullify, dismiss, impact, or otherwise affect investigations or proceedings as to any individual or person who is not a party or an affiliate of said party to this Consent Order.
3. The findings of fact, conclusions of law and order contained in this Consent Order have been extensively negotiated. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or at law or in equity to the contrary, nothing contained in this Consent Order, including without any limitation any finding of fact, allegation, assertion, or conclusion of law herein, shall preclude, impact, affect, limit, or bar in any manner whatsoever any claims or actions against, or defenses of, Sullivan, Stringer, or Wood based on the same circumstances and/or legal theories contained herein. This Consent Order shall not be admissible as evidence of any alleged violations in any proceeding brought by Regulators against the individual respondents other than Kelsoe.
4. MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe will CEASE AND DESIST from violating the Act, and will comply with the Act.
5. Pursuant to this[State] Consent Order (No. ) and related Consent Orders of the states of Alabama (SC-2010-0016), South Carolina (File No.: 08011), Kentucky (Agency Case No.: 2010-AH-021/Administrative Action No.: 10-PPC0267), Tennessee Consent Order (Docket No.: 12.06-107077J/Order No. 11-005), and Mississippi (Administrative Proceedings File No. S-08-0050), the offer of settlement in SEC Administrative Proceeding (File No. 3-13847) (the "SEC Order") and the FINRA Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent No. 2007011164502, MKC and MAM has or shall pay in resolution of all of these matters, within ten (10) days of the entry of the SEC Order the sum of Two Hundred Million Dollars ($200,000,000.00) to be distributed as follows: 1) One Hundred Million to the SEC's Fair Fund
        
        
            
 
to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of the SEC Order; and 2) One Hundred Million to a States' Fund to be established in this matter for the benefit of investors in the Funds that are the subject of this Consent Order. Any costs, expenses, and charges associated with the Fair Fund and States' Fund management and distributions shall be paid by MKC and MAM and shall not diminish the fund corpus. The Fair Fund and the State's Fund shall be distributed pursuant to distribution plans drawn up by the administrator(s) ("Fair Fund Administrator" for the SEC's portion and "Fund Administrator" for the States' portion). The administrator(s) are to be respectively chosen by a representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Tennessee, South Carolina and Mississippi ("States' Fund Representative"), and the SEC. Nothing in this paragraph shall require or limit the SEC's and the States' choice of fund administrators which may or may not be the same entity or person for both funds.
6. MKC and MAM shall pay the sum of $ to [] as a monetary penalty, which amount constitutes the State of []'s share of the state settlement amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00), which shall be payable as follows: []. All funds shall be delivered to the office of the [] within ten (10) days of the later of the execution of this Consent Order or the date on which the SEC Order is entered. In the event another state securities regulator determines not to accept the settlement offer, the total amount of the payment to the State of [] shall not be affected.
                    
State Agency
State
State Agency instructions
State Agency
State
7. As consideration for the dismissal of the administrative proceeding by the [State Agency], Kelsoe does hereby agree to the revocation of all existing registrations and/or licenses, if any, and to an Order of Permanent Bar:
 
 
8. If any payments are not made by MKC or MAM, the [] may vacate this Consent Order, at its sole discretion, upon thirty (30) days notice to MKC and/or MAM, or as appropriate, Kelsoe, and, without opportunity for an administrative hearing, enter a final order or decree if such default is not cured to the satisfaction of the regulators within the thirty (30) day notice period. Any dispute related to any payments required under this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of [] without regard to any choice of law principles.
STATE AGENCY
STATE
9. This Consent Order shall not disqualify MKC and MAM, or any of their affiliates or registered representatives from any business that they otherwise are qualified or licensed to perform under any applicable state law and is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualification or suspension in any state. Further, this Consent Order is not intended to and shall not form the basis for any disqualifications contained in the federal securities law, the rules and regulations thereunder, the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations, or various states' securities laws including but not limited to any disqualifications from relying upon the registration exemptions or safe harbor provisions.
 
10. MKC, MAM, and all of their existing and future affiliates and subsidiaries are prohibited from creating, offering or selling a proprietary fund
3
that is a registered investment company and is marketed and sold to investors other than institutional and other qualified investors as defined in Section 3(a)(54) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.  78c(a)(54), ("proprietary fund") for a period of two (2) years from the entry of the first of the State Consent Orders to be entered in this matter. MKC, MAM, their affiliates or subsidiaries, may seek permission to resume offering or begin offering a proprietary fund in [] after the lapse of the first year of the prohibition, but may not proceed with the offer and sale of such proprietary fund in the [] prior to receiving the express written consent and approval of the Administrator of [].
state
state
Agency
11. State Regulatory Audits or Examinations as authorized by []. In addition to any state regulatory audits or examinations authorized by State statute, the state regulatory authority may conduct appropriate audits or examinations of the offices and branch offices of the Respondents MKC and MAM. Appropriate costs associated with such audits or examinations conducted within two (2) years from the date of this Consent Order, shall be borne by MKC and/or MAM. This provision in no way limits the assessment of costs by states which routinely assess registrants with the costs of audits.
state statute
12. If prior to January 1, 2016, MKC and/or MAM shall again form and sell any proprietary investment products
4
, they shall at that time retain, for a period of three (3) years, at
 
 
their own expense, an independent auditor, acceptable to the representative designated by the state agencies of Alabama, Kentucky, Tennessee, and South Carolina ("States' Representative") and the SEC. The independent auditor cannot be an affiliated entity of MKC or MAM. Further, to ensure the independence of the independent auditor, MKC and/or MAM: (a) shall not have the authority to terminate the independent auditor without prior written approval of the States' representative; (b) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client relationship with the independent auditor and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other privilege or doctrine to prevent the independent auditor from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the States; and (c) during the period of engagement and for a period of two (2) years after the engagement, shall not enter into any employment, customer, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with the independent auditor.
The scope of the independent auditor's engagement shall be approved by the States' Representative prior to the commencement of the audit, and shall include, but is not limited to, reviews and examinations of:
 
 
 
through any future acquisition, merger or other form of business combination with an entity not currently under common control with MKC or MAM. Nor shall this definition apply to future proprietary products or offerings that are created following such acquisition, merger or other form of business combination, unless such proprietary products are created by MKC or MAM.
 
 
13. Further, the independent auditor shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. MKC and MAM shall:
 
 
 
 
15. MKC and MAM shall retain within sixty (60) days of the entry of this Consent Order, at their own expense, an independent consultant ("Consultant"), acceptable to the States' representative, and the SEC. The Consultant shall review MKC's and/or MAM's: (i) current written supervisory and compliance procedures concerning product suitability; (ii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures regarding recommendations and disclosures relating to registered investment companies; (iii) current written supervisory and compliance procedures relating to advertising and sales literature regarding the purchase and sale of registered investment companies; and (iv) the implementation and effectiveness of (i) through (iii); provided that the lookback period for (i) through (iii) shall not exceed the twelve month period prior to the entry of this Consent Order.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. MKC and MAM shall provide, for a period of three (3) years, to all of their registered agents and investment adviser representatives mandatory, comprehensive, and ongoing (i) product/offering training on each of the proprietary products/offerings that they sell or recommend to clients, and (ii) training on suitability and risks of investments generally. The
 
training required pursuant to this paragraph shall be in addition to any continuing education training required to maintain the registrations of the registered agents and investment adviser representatives and shall include, at a minimum, training on all of the following:
 
 
 
 
17. For training related to proprietary products/offerings, MKC and MAM shall develop and implement course evaluations to be completed by each FA in order to assess the effectiveness of the training.
18. MKC and MAM shall;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19. One person shall not simultaneously hold the positions of General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer for either Respondent.
20. Nothing herein shall preclude the state of [], its departments, agencies, boards, commissions, authorities, political subdivisions, and corporations (collectively "State Entities"), other than the [] and only to the extent set forth herein, from asserting any claims, causes of action, or applications for compensatory, nominal and/or punitive damages, administrative, civil, criminal, or injunctive relief against MKC and MAM in connection with the marketing and sales practices of the Funds at MKC or MAM.
STATE
state agency
21. Any dispute or default other than related to payments as referenced in paragraph 8 related to this Consent Order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of [] without regard to any choice of law principles.
STATE
 
22. Unless otherwise stipulated, the parties intend that the monies allocated through the SEC's Fair Fund and/or the States' Fund, including the monies allocated pursuant to this Consent Order, to the investors of any given State will be treated as an offset against any order for MKC, MAM or Kelsoe, or any of them, to pay any amount (whether designated as restitution, fines or otherwise compensatory in nature) in any action brought by that State or any of the regulatory agencies thereof and not concluded by this Consent Order .. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as delineated in paragraphs 41 through 43, this Consent Order is presumed to be treated as a settlement for evidentiary purposes not as evidence of either damage or liability itself. MKC and MAM further agree that in the event they should enter into a consent order prior to an adjudication on the merits with another States securities regulator which provides each investor a higher return of losses per invested dollar than under the terms of this Consent Order, then the [State Agency] may, at its option, obtain the same payout of losses per invested dollar for the investors of this State.
23. Respondents MKC, MAM, and Kelsoe agree not to make or permit to be made any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any finding in this Order or creating the impression that this Order is without factual basis. Nothing in this Paragraph affects MKC's, MAM's, or Kelsoe's: (i) testimonial obligations, or (ii) right to take legal or factual positions in defense of litigation or arbitration or in defense of other legal proceedings in which the [] is not a party.
Agency
24. Nothing herein shall affect any statutory authority of the [Agency], including but not limited to, inspections, visits, examinations, and/or the production of documents
 
25. This Consent Order shall be binding upon MKC and MAM, and their successors and assigns, with respect to all conduct subject to the provisions above and all future obligations, responsibilities, undertakings, commitments, limitations, restrictions, events, and conditions.
Dated this day of , 2011.
            
    
 
 
Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ("Respondents") hereby acknowledge that they have been served with a copy of this Administrative Consent Order ("Consent Order"), have read the foregoing Consent Order, are aware of each of their right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and have waived the same.
Respondents admit the jurisdiction of the []; admit to the allegations in paragraphs 41 through 43 of Section II, relating to the maintenance of books and records, but otherwise neither admit nor deny any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this proceeding; and Respondents further consent to entry of this Consent Order by the [] as settlement of the issues contained in this Consent Order.
state agency
state agency
Respondents enter into this Consent Order voluntarily and represent that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by [] or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the [] to induce Respondents to enter into this Consent Order other than as set forth in the Consent Order.
state agency
state agency
represents that he/she is of Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Asset Management, Inc. to enter into this Consent Order for and on behalf of Morgan Asset Management, Inc.
                                         
                                        
represents that he/she is of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and that, as such, has been authorized by Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. to enter into this Consent Order for and on behalf of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
                                         
                                        
Respondents agree that they shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of for any monetary penalty or restitution that Respondents
            
 
shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order. Respondents understand and acknowledge that these provisions are not intended to imply that the [] would agree that any other amounts Respondents shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
state agency
Dated this day of , 2011.
            
    
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of , 2011.
                                        
            
    
 
 
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of , 2011.
                                        
            
    
 
 
 
James C. Kelsoe, Jr. ("Individual Respondent") hereby acknowledges that he has been served with a copy of this Consent Order ("Consent Order"), has read the foregoing Consent Order, is aware of his right to a hearing and appeal in this matter, and has waived the same.
Individual Respondent admits the jurisdiction of the Division; but otherwise neither admits nor denies any of the findings of fact, allegations, assertions or conclusions of law that have been made herein in this Consent Order; and Individual Respondent further consents to entry of this Consent Order by the Division as settlement of the issues contained in this Consent Order.
Individual Respondent enters into this Consent Order voluntarily and represents that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the Division or any member, officer, employee, agent, or representative of the Division to induce Individual Respondent to enter into this Consent Order.
Individual Respondent agrees, if applicable, that he shall not claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to the State of [STATE], for any monetary penalty that Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order. Individual Respondent understands and acknowledges that these provisions are not intended to imply that the Division would agree that any other amounts Individual Respondent shall pay pursuant to this Consent Order may be reimbursed or indemnified (whether pursuant to an insurance policy or otherwise) under applicable law or may be the basis for any tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any state, federal, or local tax.
 
Dated this day of , 2011.
            
    
 
 
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me by , this day of , 2011.
                                        
    
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(Business Wire)(June 22, 2011)  Regions Financial Corp. (NYSE:RF) announced today that its brokerage and investment banking subsidiary, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc., and its asset management subsidiary, Morgan Asset Management, have agreed to a settlement of previously disclosed regulatory matters with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), and a group of state securities regulators with respect to issues concerning certain mutual funds and closed-end funds (the RMK Funds), a business that Morgan Asset Management divested in 2008.
Birmingham, AL.
As part of the settlement, Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management agreed to pay $210 million, of which $200 million will be placed into two Fair Funds for the benefit of investors in the RMK Funds in any state. The full amount of the settlement was previously accrued.
Regions also announced that with these regulatory matters settled, and as part of its ongoing capital planning process, it has retained Goldman, Sachs & Co. to explore potential strategic alternatives for Morgan Keegan as Regions evaluates how best to manage its capital to increase shareholder value. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in this review.
Regions President and CEO Grayson Hall said, "Morgan Keegan has been a subsidiary of Regions since 2001 and is a leading brokerage and investment banking firm based in the Southeast and a very valuable franchise. However, the resolution of this legacy regulatory matter gives Regions greater flexibility with respect to the Morgan Keegan franchise and the ability to explore opportunities that are consistent with our strategic and capital planning initiatives.
"Regions is committed to continuing to provide a full range of products and services seamlessly to its customers, including through a continuing relationship with Morgan Keegan," Hall said.
John Carson, CEO of Morgan Keegan said, "Morgan Keegan is excited by the opportunity to further develop the brand that we have built over the last 40 years. Morgan Keegan's core businesses remain strong and, with this settlement behind us, we look
 
forward to continuing to serve our individual, institutional and investment banking clients and to growing our business."
Settlement details
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation, with $132 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,800 banking offices and 2,200 ATMs. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at .
www.regions.com
About Morgan Keegan
Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc., a full-service brokerage and investment banking firm, is the securities brokerage arm of Regions Financial Corp. (NYSE: RF). Headquartered in Memphis, Tenn., Morgan Keegan serves individual and institutional investors in over 300 offices in 20 states. Additional information about Morgan Keegan can be found at www.morgankeegan.com.
 


