FILE:RF/RF-8K-20110825171742.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On August 24, 2011, the Board of Directors ("Board") of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") appointed Ruth Ann Marshall to the Regions' Board, effective immediately. The appointment of Ms. Marshall increases the size of Regions' Board to fifteen (15) members.
Ms. Marshall is retired from MasterCard where she served as President, The Americas, MasterCard International, Inc. from 2004  2006 and as President, MasterCard North America from 2000  2004. There are no arrangements or understandings with other persons pursuant to which she was selected as a Director. On August 25, 2011, Ms. Marshall was awarded a grant of 12,963 shares of restricted stock under the Regions Financial Corporation 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan, pursuant to Regions' compensation program for Directors that applies uniformly to all non-employee Directors. The restricted stock is subject to a continued service requirement, and the restrictions lapse on the first anniversary of the grant date, or earlier in the case of Ms. Marshall's death or disability or upon termination without cause following a change in control of Regions. Ms. Marshall has been assigned to the Audit Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board. Ms. Marshall was also appointed a Director of Regions Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions.
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
99.1  Press Release of Regions Financial Corporation dated August 24, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 25, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ruth Ann Marshall, former President, The Americas, for MasterCard International, Inc., has been elected to the Board of Directors of Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE: RF).
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., August 24, 2011
"Ruth Ann Marshall is a highly experienced leader with an extremely strong background in financial services, and I am proud to have her join our board," said Earnest Deavenport, Regions' chairman. "Throughout her career she has demonstrated keen understanding of the financial services industry, combined with strong management skills and the ability to lead and grow in a changing environment."
In her role as President, The Americas, for MasterCard International, Ms. Marshall was responsible for all major banking and retail relationships, as well as governance, business development, global acceptance, product management, finance, planning, and human resources. Prior to joining MasterCard, she also held executive leadership positions within the payments card industry including her service with Concord, EFS; Electronic Payment Services, Inc; and BUYPASS. Ms. Marshall holds a BBA in Finance and an MBA in Marketing from Southern Methodist University. Additionally, in 2004 and 2005 Marshall was named as one of Forbes' 100 Most Powerful Women, as well as being named to Fortune's Top 100 Business Women in 2003.
Ms. Marshall also serves on the boards of ConAgra Foods, Inc., Global Payments, Inc. and Pella Corporation.
About Regions
Regions Financial Corporation, with $131 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,800 banking offices and over 2,100 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 300 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at
www.regions.com.
 
 
 


