FILE:RF/RF-8K-20110225161047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compensation Determinations for Named Executive Officers.
On February 23, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") took actions related to compensation of certain executive officers. As contemplated by the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance, the Compensation Committee had previously established annual rates of periodic payments (often referred to as "salary stock") for the named executive officers. Effective February 23, 2011, the Committee approved continuing annual rates of so-called salary stock for 2011 at the same rate as established for 2010 for each of the following officers: O.B. Grayson Hall, Jr. as President and Chief Executive Officer, David J. Turner, Jr. as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, David B. Edmonds as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, and John B. Owen as Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Consumer Services. In addition, the Committee approved a salary stock award for 2011 for John C. Carson, Jr. as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Keegan in the amount of $500,000 annually. These rates are effective as of January 1, 2011. This so-called salary stock will be granted in the form of restricted stock units, with units granted being payable in cash in two equal annual installments on January 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013. The form of 2011 Annual Salary Stock Unit Award Agreement, which governs the payment of these restricted stock units is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
In addition to approving salary stock awards as set forth above, the Compensation Committee took additional actions related to compensation for the year ending December 31, 2010, which are designed to comply with the TARP Standards. As required by the TARP Standards, Regions will not pay cash bonuses for 2010 to its named executive officers but has determined to grant TARP-permitted long-term restricted stock awards for 2010 to its named executive officers. The Committee determined to issue these grants at 70% of the maximum amount allowable under the TARP Standards, and therefore, on February 23, 2011, each officer was granted the following number of shares of restricted stock: 156,504 shares for O.B. Grayson Hall, Jr. as President and Chief Executive Officer, 51,030 shares for David J. Turner, Jr. as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 52,168 shares for David B. Edmonds as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, 56,152 shares for John B. Owen as Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Consumer Services and 71,138 shares for John C. Carson, Jr. as Managing Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Keegan. These restricted stock grants vest after three years and are subject to certain transfer restrictions until repayment of TARP. The form of TARP Restricted Stock Award Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 25, 2011

Exhibit 10.1
AWARD AGREEMENT dated as of the day of February, 2011 by and between Regions Financial Corporation and . The Company has awarded you annual salary stock units ("") in the form of restricted stock units ("" This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the RSUs underlying your Annual Salary Stock Units.
    
[            ]
Salary Stock Units
RSUs
).
1. .
Annual Salary Stock Units
(a) Beginning on the date of this Award Agreement, your Annual Salary Stock Units will accrue and be earned equally over the course of the year, subject to your continued employment. Your Annual Salary Stock Units may be changed from time to time by the Committee, including to increase, decrease or terminate your Annual Salary Stock Units. Your Annual Salary Stock Units will be given retroactive effect to January 1, 2011.
(b) On each Grant Date you will be issued RSUs equal to (1) the amount of your Annual Salary Stock Units earned over the relevant payroll period, net of any applicable tax withholdings and deductions (e.g., FICA and FUTA) pursuant to Paragraph 4(a), (2) the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on that date (or, if the New York Stock Exchange is closed on the Grant Date, on the last preceding date on which the Common Stock was traded on that exchange).
divided by
(c) For any Grant Date that would have occurred during the period beginning on January 1, 2011 and the date of this Award Agreement, you are being issued RSUs on the date of this Award Agreement determined on the basis of the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on that date.
2. .
Vesting; Settlement
(a) RSUs granted pursuant to the Award shall be immediately vested on the applicable Grant Date and will be payable solely in cash.
(b) RSUs granted in respect of a Grant Date will be payable in two equal installments, on January 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, (i.e., 50% on each of those dates) or, if earlier, your death (each, a ""). If the New York Stock Exchange is closed on a Payout Date, then the applicable installment will be calculated using the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the last preceding date on which the Common Stock was traded on that exchange. If a Payout Date does not occur on a regular payroll date, the payment will be made on the payroll date immediately following the relevant Payout Date, in each case, net of any applicable tax withholdings and deductions (e.g., income taxes) pursuant to Paragraph 4(a).
Payout Date
3. . Your rights in respect of future grants under the Award shall immediately terminate if at any time your employment with the Company terminates for any reason, except that you shall be entitled to receive a final grant of RSUs determined in accordance with Paragraph 1 for any portion of your Annual Salary Stock Units that you had accrued through the date of your termination of employment but had not yet been paid. In addition, your right to future Annual Salary Stock Units under this Award Agreement will terminate on December 31, 2011.
Termination
4. .
Withholding
(a) The Company will satisfy applicable tax withholdings and make applicable deductions in respect of Annual Salary Stock Units earned by you over a payroll period and issue RSUs pursuant to Paragraph 1(b) in respect of the remainder. On each Payment Date, the Company will satisfy any additional tax withholding applicable to the cash paid to you upon settlement of the RSUs.
(b) In all cases, you shall be solely responsible for any applicable taxes (including, without limitation, income and excise taxes) and penalties, and any interest that accrues thereon, that may be incurred in connection with the issuance of RSUs and the payment of cash upon settlement of the RSUs.
5. . Nothing in this Award Agreement shall be construed as giving you any right to continued employment by the Company or affect any right that the Company may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of your employment. The Company has not yet determined
No Rights to Continued Employment; Impact on Other Plans
whether, and to what extent, your Annual Stock Salary Units will be taken into account for purposes of determining benefits under other compensation and benefit plans, programs, policies and arrangements maintained by the Company. Any such determination will be made in the sole discretion of the Company and the Company will inform you once such a determination has been made.
6. . The Committee may at any time amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement; that, notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement with respect to amounts that you have already earned and accrued without your prior written consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after your death) and any such amendment shall be made in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee. Subject to the other provisions of this Paragraph 6, the Committee shall have full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Award Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Amendment; Committee Discretion
provided
7. .
Governing Law
THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
8. . Compensation under this Award Agreement is subject to applicable regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and applicable requirements of agreements between the Company and the U.S. government, as the same are in effect from time to time. You may receive compensation under this Award Agreement only to the extent that it is consistent with those regulations and requirements.
TARP Restrictions
9. . The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
"" means the award of Annual Salary Stock Units pursuant to this Award Agreement.
Award
"" means this award agreement, as it may be amended, supplemented or replaced from time to time.
Award Agreement
"" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Regions, including any substitute or successor committee or any action by the Board of Directors of Regions in the capacity of such committee.
Committee
"" means the common stock of Regions, par value $.01 per share, and any other securities or property issued in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof.
Common Stock
means each date that your base salary with the Company is payable in accordance with the Company's payroll practices then in effect.
"
Grant Date
"
"" or the "" means Regions Financial Corporation.
Regions
Company
, the Company has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of .
I W W
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
                        
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions" or "Company") has awarded you TARP Restricted Stock ("Restricted Stock") under the Regions Financial Corporation 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). This award agreement (the "Award Agreement") sets forth the terms and conditions of your award (the "Award"). Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Award Agreement or the Plan have the meanings given in the attached Glossary of Terms.
1. Award. The number of shares of Restricted Stock subject to this Award is set forth at the end of this Award Agreement. This Award of Restricted Stock will vest as set forth below. THIS AWARD IS SUBJECT TO ALL TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS AWARD AGREEMENT.
2. Vesting; Payout.
(a) Vesting. Except as provided in this Paragraph 2 and in Paragraphs 3 and 5, you shall become vested in the Restricted Stock on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant specified at the end of this Award Agreement (the "Scheduled Vesting Date"). Except as provided in this Paragraph 2 and Paragraph 5, if your Employment terminates for any reason prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, your rights in respect of all of your shares of Restricted Stock shall terminate.
(b) Transferable Dates. The Restricted Stock, to the extent then vested, shall become transferable according to the following schedule:
(i) 25% of the Restricted Stock shall become transferable upon the Company's repayment of 25% of the aggregate financial assistance received under the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP");
(ii) An additional 25% of the Restricted Stock (for an aggregate total of 50% of the Restricted Stock) shall become transferable upon the Company's repayment of 50% of the aggregate financial assistance received under TARP;
(iii) An additional 25% of the Restricted Stock (for an aggregate total of 75% of the Restricted Stock) shall become transferable upon the Company's repayment of 75% of the aggregate financial assistance received under TARP; and
(iv) The remainder of the Restricted Stock shall become transferable upon the Company's repayment of 100% of the aggregate financial assistance received under TARP (such date and the transferable dates set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Paragraph 2(b), each a "Permitted Transferability Date").
(c) Payout. Except as provided in this Paragraph 2 and in Paragraphs 3, 5, 7 and 8, the transfer restrictions on the applicable number of whole shares of Restricted Stock shall lapse on the later of the Scheduled Vesting Date and the applicable Permitted Transferability Date with respect to such shares ("Payout Date").
(d) Death. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, and provided your rights in respect of your shares of Restricted Stock have not
previously terminated, the shares corresponding to your outstanding Restricted Stock shall immediately vest and such shares shall become transferable on the applicable Permitted Transferability Dates.
(e) Change in Control. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control prior to a Scheduled Vesting Date, and provided you are terminated without Cause within 24 months after the occurrence of a Change in Control, and provided your rights in respect of your Restricted Stock have not previously terminated, the shares of your outstanding Restricted Stock shall immediately vest and become transferable on the applicable Permitted Transferability Dates.
3. Termination of Restricted Stock.
(a) Except as provided in Paragraphs 2(d), 2(e) and 5, your rights in respect of your outstanding Restricted Stock shall immediately terminate, and no Shares shall vest thereafter, if at any time prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date your Employment with Regions or an affiliate or subsidiary terminates for any reason, or you are otherwise no longer actively employed by Regions or an affiliate or subsidiary.
(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as further provided in Paragraph 5, your rights in respect of all of your Restricted Stock (whether or not vested) shall immediately terminate, and no shares of Restricted Stock shall vest thereafter, if at any time prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date:
(i) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred; or
(ii) you in any manner, directly or indirectly, (A) Solicit any Client to transact business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with Regions or an affiliate or subsidiary or (B) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between Regions or an affiliate or subsidiary and any such Client or (C) Solicit any person who is an employee of Regions or an affiliate or subsidiary to resign from Regions or an affiliate or subsidiary or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise; or
(iii) you fail to certify to Regions, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, with respect to the Scheduled Vesting Date that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you have failed as of the Scheduled Vesting Date to comply, with all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.
(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if the Scheduled Vesting Date in respect of any of your outstanding Restricted Stock occurs and you have not complied with the conditions or your obligations under Paragraph 3(b)(iii), all of your rights with respect to the applicable portion of your outstanding Restricted Stock shall terminate no later than the applicable Scheduled Vesting Date.
4. Repayment and Clawback.
(a) If, following a Payout Date, the Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement were not satisfied, Regions shall be entitled to receive, and you shall be obligated to pay Regions immediately upon demand therefor, the Fair Market Value of the Shares (determined as of the Payout Date) that vested with respect to the Payout Date, without reduction for any Shares applied to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect of such Shares.
(b) If, following a Payout Date, Regions determines that the lapsing of restrictions on the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock grant was based on materially inaccurate financial statements (which includes, but is not limited to, statements of earnings, revenues or gains) or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria, Regions shall be entitled to receive, and you shall be obligated to pay Regions immediately upon demand therefor, the Fair Market Value of the Shares (determined as of the Payout Date) that vested with respect to the Payout Date, without reduction for any Shares applied to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect
of such Shares. Regions will determine whether a financial statement or other performance metric criteria is materially inaccurate in accordance with the standards set forth in the TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance, 31 C.F.R.  30.8, or any similar or successor provision in effect from time to time.
5. Disability.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph 5(b), if you become subject to Disability, the condition set forth in Paragraph 2(a) shall be waived with respect to your then outstanding unvested Restricted Stock (as a result of which any such then unvested outstanding Restricted Stock shall vest and shall be paid to you promptly after the later of the date you become subject to Disability and the applicable Permissible Transferability Date, but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.
(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 3(b) or Paragraph 3(c), your rights in respect of any outstanding Restricted Stock that become vested solely by reason of Paragraph 5(a) shall terminate, and no Shares shall become transferable in respect of such Restricted Stock if, following your becoming subject to Disability and prior to the applicable Permitted Transferability Date of Shares in respect of such outstanding Restricted Stock, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.
6. Non-transferability. Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, this Award (or any rights and obligations hereunder) may not be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of or hedged, in any manner (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily and whether by operation of law or otherwise, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, except as may be otherwise provided in this Award Agreement. Any sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, or other disposition in violation of this Paragraph 6 will be null and void and any Award which is hedged in any manner will immediately be forfeited. All of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement will be binding upon any permitted successors and assigns.
7. Withholding, Consents and Legends.
(a) You shall be solely responsible for any applicable taxes (including, without limitation, income and employment taxes) and any penalties and excise taxes, and any interest that accrues thereon, incurred in connection with your Award. Unless you otherwise direct, Regions will satisfy applicable tax withholdings and make applicable deductions in respect of your Award and issue Shares. In the alternative, you may remit cash to Regions (through payroll deduction or otherwise), in each case in an amount sufficient in the opinion of Regions to satisfy such withholding obligation.
(b) Your right to receive Shares pursuant to the Award is conditioned on the receipt to the reasonable satisfaction of the Committee of any required Consent that the Committee may reasonably determine to be necessary or advisable.
(c) Regions may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with Regions). Regions may advise the transfer agent to place a stop transfer order against any legended Shares.
8. Section 409A. Shares of Restricted Stock granted under this Award Agreement are intended to be exempt from Section 409A. However, to the extent such shares of Restricted Stock are determined to be "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A, this Award Agreement is intended to, and shall be interpreted, administered and construed to, comply with Section 409A. The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to the intent of this Paragraph 8. In such event, any payment or lapse of restrictions to be made under the Restricted Stock in connection with termination of your Employment (and any other payment or settlement under the Plan) that would be subject to the limitations in Section 409A(a)(2)(b) of the Code shall be delayed until six months after
termination of your Employment (or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A. Each payment or lapse of restrictions under this Award Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Section 409A.
9. No Rights to Continued Employment. Nothing in this Award Agreement shall be construed as giving you any right to continued Employment by Regions or an affiliate or subsidiary or affect any right that Regions or an affiliate or subsidiary may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of your Employment.
10. Successors and Assigns of Regions. The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, Regions and its successor entities.
11. Committee Discretion. Subject to Paragraph 12, the Committee shall have full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Award Agreement and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
12. Amendment. The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after your death), and provided, further, that the Committee may not accelerate or postpone the lapse of restrictions on the Shares (or cash in lieu of all or any part thereof) to occur at a time other than the applicable time provided for in this Award Agreement. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
13. Governing Law. TO THE EXTENT NOT GOVERNED BY FEDERAL LAW, THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
14. TARP Restrictions. Compensation under this Award Agreement is subject to applicable regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and applicable requirements of agreements between Regions and the U.S. government, as the same are in effect from time to time. You may receive compensation under this Award Agreement only to the extent that it is consistent with those regulations and requirements.
15. Headings. The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Regions Financial Corporation has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.
 
 


