FILE:RF/RF-8K-20120724070437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 24, 2012 Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release announcing its preliminary results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Supplemental financial information for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 is attached as Exhibit 99.2. Executives from Regions will review the results via teleconference and live audio webcast at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time today. A copy of a visual presentation that will be a part of that review is attached as Exhibit 99.3. All of the attached exhibits are incorporated herein and may also be found on Regions website at .
www.regions.com
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, this information is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 24, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.  (BUSINESS WIRE)  July 24, 2012  Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF) today reported earnings for the quarter ending June 30, 2012.
Key points:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Focused on prudent, profitable growth
Regions reported second quarter net income available to common shareholders of $284 million or $0.20 per diluted share driven by continued improvement in core business performance. Second quarter income from continuing operations was $280 million or $0.20 per diluted share compared to $185 million or $0.14 per diluted share in the first quarter. Regions reported net income of $4 million from discontinued operations, attributable to the gain on the sale of Morgan Keegan. In connection with the repayment of its Series A preferred stock, the company accelerated the accretion of the discount and coupled with the final preferred stock dividends, reduced net income available to common shareholders by $71 million, or $0.05 per diluted share.
1
Pre-tax pre-provision income
1
totaled $503 million as compared to $438 million in the prior quarter. This improvement of 15 percent linked quarter reflected an increase in net interest income and a decline in non-interest expenses partially offset by a decline in non-interest revenue.
"We continued to make incremental progress on many key fronts and are pleased with the improvement of our financial performance despite considerable economic and political uncertainty, and an uneven economic recovery," said Grayson Hall, president and chief executive officer. "By focusing on initiatives that we can control, we continue to drive sustainable and prudent growth across our business."
Mortgage revenue grows while credit related expenses decline
Non-interest revenues from continuing operations totaled $507 million, down 3 percent linked quarter. Mortgage revenue increased 17 percent linked quarter or $13 million driven by new home purchases and refinance activity, as customers took advantage of low interest rates and the extended Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP II. Mortgage production for the quarter was $2.1 billion, a 28 percent increase from the prior quarter. While closed application volumes have increased 50 percent since last year, the company has maintained efficient completion times that have aided productivity.
Account service fees and charges were down $21 million linked quarter due to the establishment of a reserve for certain customer fee refunds resulting from a change in the company's non-sufficient funds policy. Excluding this item, total service charges would have been consistent with the first quarter.
Non-interest expenses from continuing operations declined $71 million linked quarter, an improvement of 8 percent, and are down $114 million or 12 percent from the prior year. This reduction in expenses is primarily driven by lower credit related expenses; in particular, held for sale expenses in the second quarter benefited from $26 million in gains related to sales of properties, reflecting asset value improvements.
 
 
Commercial and industrial loan growth led by expertise in specialized lending
Despite continued economic headwinds and uncertainty, Regions was able to grow loans in targeted areas through expertise and service quality. Second quarter results reflect growth in lending to middle market commercial and industrial customers, in particular the specialized banking groups. Average loans in this category were up 4 percent compared to prior quarter and total commercial and industrial commitments grew $441 million, or 1.4 percent linked quarter. Commercial loan production (including renewals) totaled $11.6 billion, of which $4.3 billion were new loan originations.
Consumer loan production totaled $2.8 billion in second quarter, which is an increase of 24% over last year. Indirect auto loans experienced a 6 percent increase in balances but this was offset by declines in the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios. Consumer loan balances continue to be impacted by consumer deleveraging and the overall economic environment including home prices.
Overall, average loans declined 1 percent linked quarter reflecting a further $638 million or 6 percent decline in the investor real estate portfolio. The company's aggregate loan yield was flat linked quarter at 4.29 percent, primarily due to the low rate environment.
Funding mix improvement resulting in a decline in deposit costs
Average low-cost deposits improved 2 percent linked quarter while higher cost time deposits declined 10 percent. This deposit mix shift drove an improvement in the company's funding mix during the quarter, as average low-cost deposits as a percentage of total deposits rose to 82 percent compared to 77 percent last year. This positive mix shift resulted in deposit costs declining to 32 basis points for the quarter, down 5 basis points from first quarter and 21 basis points from last year. Total funding costs declined to 60 basis points, down 20 basis points from one year ago.
Net interest income from continuing operations was $838 million; an $11 million increase linked quarter. The net interest margin rose linked quarter to 3.16 percent due to lower deposit costs, lower non-accrual levels and further deployment of excess cash.
Broad based asset quality improvement continues
Asset quality continued to improve in the second quarter. The provision for loan losses totaled $26 million or $239 million less than net charge-offs and was down from first quarter's provision of $117 million. Total net charge-offs decreased $67 million or 20 percent linked quarter to $265 million. The company's loan loss allowance to non-performing loan coverage ratio increased from 1.12x to 1.20x year-over-year and the allowance for loan losses as a percent of loans was 3.01 percent as of June 30, 2012.
Non-performing loans, excluding loans held for sale, totaled $1.9 billion and were down $236 million or 11 percent linked quarter. This is the first time that non-performing loans have been below $2 billion in three years. Inflows of non-performing loans declined to $315 million or 17 percent from the first quarter. Business Services criticized loans also declined 9 percent in the quarter and are down 31 percent year-over-year.
 
 
Strong capital and solid liquidity
Early in the second quarter Regions repaid the U.S. Treasury Department's $3.5 billion preferred stock investment. This transaction followed the completion of a highly successful common equity offering late in the first quarter. In connection with the repayment of the Series A preferred stock the company redeemed the associated warrant for $45 million.
Tier 1 and Tier 1 common
1
capital ratios remained strong, ending the second quarter at an estimated 11.0 percent and 10.0 percent, respectively. The company's liquidity position at both the bank and the holding company remains solid as well. As of June 30, 2012, the company's loan-to-deposit ratio was 80 percent.
 
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation, with $122 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, mortgage, and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,700 banking offices and 2,100 ATMs. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at
www.regions.com.
Forward-looking statements
This presentation may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("the Act") provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements which are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions often signify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time.
Use of non-GAAP financial measures
Various pages of this earnings release refer to pre-tax pre-provision income (PPI) and the impact of the acceleration related to the repurchase of the Series A preferred stock on earnings per share.
Page two of this earnings release presents Tier 1 common risk-based ratio (non-GAAP) and tangible common ratios (non-GAAP). Page three of the financial supplement shows additional ratios based on return on average assets, tangible common stockholders' equity, efficiency ratio, as well as the Tier 1 common risk-based ratio and computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment (non-GAAP), the regulatory charge and the federal income tax benefit related to the regulatory charge (non-GAAP).
Regions believes that the presentation of PPI and the exclusion of certain items to PPI provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management.
The preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment charge, and the regulatory charge and related tax benefit are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes that the exclusion of the preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment and the regulatory charge and related tax benefit in expressing earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, including "earnings (loss) per common share, excluding preferred dividends and accretion" and "earnings (loss) per common share, excluding goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit" provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance.
Tangible common stockholders' equity ratios have become a focus of some investors and management believes they may assist investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal
 
 
banking regulations. In connection with the Company's Comprehensive Capital Assessment and Review process, these regulators supplement their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions' capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders' equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or prescribed in amount by the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common equity, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on these same bases.
Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a company's balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk-weighted category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity. Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.
Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non-GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment, the regulatory charge and the federal income tax benefit related to the regulatory charge does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e. preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment and the regulatory charge are a reductions in earnings and stockholders' equity).
Management and the Board of Directors utilize non-GAAP measures as follows:
 
 
 
 
See page 8 of the supplement to this earnings release for the computation of income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) to pre-tax pre-provision income (non-GAAP) to adjusted pre-tax pre-provision income (non-GAAP). See pages 16-19 of the supplement to this earnings release for 1) computation of GAAP net income (loss) available to common shareholders, earnings (loss) per common share and return on average assets to non-GAAP financial measures, 2) income (loss) and earnings per common share from continuing operations (GAAP) to continuing operations excluding preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment, regulatory charge and related tax benefit (non-GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders' equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders' equity (non-GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of stockholders' equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of ending stockholder' equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital(regulatory) excluding series A preferred stock and warrant retirement 6) a
 
 
reconciliation of non-interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of non-interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), 8) a computation of the efficiency ratio and fee ratio (non-GAAP).
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Regions Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries
Financial Supplement to Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release
Table of Contents
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
Selected Ratios and Other Information from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
Loans
 
Loan Portfolio Balances by Percentage
 
 
Deposits
 
Deposits by Percentage
 
 
Pre-Tax Pre-Provision Income from Continuing Operations (non-GAAP)
 
The Pre-Tax Pre-Provision Income from Continuing Operations table above presents computations of pre-tax pre-provision income from continuing operations excluding certain adjustments (non-GAAP). Regions believes that the presentation of PPI and the exclusion of certain items to PPI provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of income that excludes certain adjustments does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders.
 
 
Non-Interest Income and Expense from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Quality
 
 
 
Troubled Debt Restructurings
 
 
 
Gross and Net NPL Migration
 
 
Foreclosed Properties
 
Non-Performing Loans Held for Sale
 
 
Composition of Non-Performing Loans Held for Sale
 
 
Early and Late Stage Delinquencies
30-89 Days Past Due Loans
 
OO = Owner Occupied
 
Non-Accrual Loans (excludes loans held for sale)
 
OO = Owner Occupied
Business Services Credit Quality - Criticized Loans
 
Investor Real Estate Analysis
Represents percent of loan balances in the portfolio
 
 
 
 
Residential Lending Net Charge-off Analysis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
Net Income (Loss) and Earnings (Loss) Per Share
The table below presents earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations, excluding preferred dividends and accretion (non-GAAP). The table also presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, excluding goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit (non-GAAP) all recorded in 2011. The preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment charge, and the regulatory charge and related tax benefit are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes that the exclusion of the preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment and the regulatory charge and related tax benefit in expressing earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, including "earnings (loss) per common share, excluding preferred dividends and accretion" and "earnings (loss) per common share, excluding goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit" provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business because management does not consider the preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures for the following purposes: preparation of Regions' operating budgets; monthly financial performance reporting; monthly close-out reporting of consolidated results (management only); and presentations to investors of Company performance. Regions believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment charge, and the regulatory charge and related tax benefit does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e. the preferred dividends and accretion, goodwill impairment charge, and the regulatory charge are reductions in earnings and stockholders' equity).
 
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures - Continuing Operations
Fee Income Ratios and Efficiency Ratios
The table below presents computations of the efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, generally calculated as non-interest expense divided by total revenue. The table also shows the fee ratio (non-GAAP), generally calculated as non-interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non-interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis (GAAP) and non-interest income are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management.
 
Adjusted Non-Interest Income/Expense
The table below presents computations of adjusted non-interest income/expense for the second quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2012 (non-GAAP). Management uses these measures to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest income/expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income/expense (non-GAAP). Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management.
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
Return Ratios, Tangible Common Ratios, Capital
The following tables provide calculations of "return on average assets from continuing operations", "return on average tangible common stockholders' equity", end of period "tangible common stockholders' equity" ratios and a reconciliation of stockholders' equity (GAAP) to tangible common stockholders' equity (non-GAAP), Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and "Tier 1 common equity" (non-GAAP). Tangible common stockholders' equity ratios have become a focus of some investors and management believes they may assist investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is not prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations. In connection with the Company's Comprehensive Capital Assessment and Review ("CCAR"), these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions' capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders' equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders' and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or prescribed in any amount by federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common equity, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on these same bases.
Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a company's balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk-weighted category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP). Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio (non-GAAP). The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.
 
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
Tier 1 Capital - With History Adjusted for Series A Retirement
Regions' Series A preferred stock was repurchased on April 4, 2012 and the warrant to purchase 48.3 million shares of Regions common stock was retired on May 2, 2012. The following table presents the calculations of Tier 1 capital and the Tier 1 capital ratio, adjusted as if the repurchase of the shares and the retirement of the warrant occurred on the last day of the quarter for each prior period presented. The amount retired includes the Series A preferred stock plus the remaining balance of the related discount.
 
 
 
Statements of Discontinued Operations (unaudited)
On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan and Company, Inc. and related affiliates to Raymond James Financial Inc. The sale was closed on April 2, 2012. Regions Investment Management, Inc. (formerly known as Morgan Asset Management, Inc.) and Regions Trust are not included in the sale. In connection with the closing, the Company and Raymond James agreed that in lieu of the $250 million pre-closing dividend from Morgan Keegan and Company, Inc. to the Company as contemplated in the original agreement, the parties would increase the purchase price by the same amount. The total purchase price received by the Company was approximately $1.2 billion. In connection with the agreement, the results of the entities being sold are reported as discontinued operations. The following tables represent the unaudited condensed results of operations for discontinued operations.
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This presentation may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("the Act") provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements which are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regions' Investor Relations contact is List Underwood at (205) 801-0265; Regions' Media contact is Tim Deighton at (205) 264-4551



