FILE:RF/RF-8K-20121023070135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 23, 2012 Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release announcing its preliminary results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Supplemental financial information for the quarter ended September 30, 2012 is attached as Exhibit 99.2. Executives from Regions will review the results via teleconference and live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. Eastern time today. A copy of a visual presentation that will be a part of that review is attached as Exhibit 99.3. All of the attached exhibits are incorporated herein and may also be found on Regions website at .
www.regions.com
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, this information shall be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except for Exhibit 99.3 which is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 23, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.  (BUSINESS WIRE)  October 23, 2012  Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF) today reported earnings for the quarter ending September 30, 2012.
Key points:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Focusing on customers and steady business performance
Regions reported third quarter net income available to common shareholders of $301 million or $0.21 per diluted share and net income available to common shareholders from continuing operations of $312 million or $0.22 per diluted share. Pre-tax pre-provision income
1
totaled $481 million as compared to $503 million in the prior quarter and $513 million in the prior year. The sequential quarter decline of 4 percent reflected a decrease in net interest income and increases in non-interest expenses partially offset by an increase in non-interest revenue. Total revenue increased during the quarter from $1,345 million to $1,350 million or $5 million.
Regions continues to make prudent investments in its business to meet more customer needs and diversify revenue streams in an efficient and sustainable manner. This quarter the company announced the expansion of Regions' Wealth Management solutions, and rolled out several new consumer products and technology enhancements designed to deepen customer relationships, including an integrated customer rewards program. In addition, the company introduced a suite of credit card offerings for consumers and businesses, successfully converting some 500,000 credit card accounts to Regions' products and systems.
"As this quarter's results show, our steady business performance and prudent investments are laying the foundation for long term growth," said Grayson Hall, president and chief executive officer. "As the financial services industry manages through a prolonged and uneven economic recovery, we remain focused on our customers and finding more ways to help them succeed financially."
Continued growth in middle market commercial and industrial and indirect auto lending partially offset other loan portfolio declines as customers continue to deleverage
Strong growth in indirect auto loan production and continued steady performance in commercial and industrial lending partially offset declines driven by anticipated runoff of real estate loans and continued deleveraging among both commercial clients and consumers. Average loans declined 1.3 percent sequentially driven by declines in investor real estate of 6.3 percent and commercial owner occupied loans of 3.1 percent. Investor real estate loan average balances have declined 28 percent since last year.
Commercial and industrial loans experienced continued growth in the third quarter, particularly in lending to middle market customers. Average loans in this category were up 1.5 percent compared to the prior quarter and 8.6 percent over last year. Total commercial and industrial commitments grew $986 million, or 3 percent linked quarter, while commercial loan production (including renewals) totaled $11.7 billion, of which $4 billion were new loan originations.
Consumer loan production totaled $3 billion in the third quarter, which is an increase of 7 percent over last quarter. Indirect auto loans experienced the highest quarter of loan production since the company re-entered the business with an increase in average balances of 6.3 percent. This was offset by declines in the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios. During the quarter Regions introduced a new home equity loan product to attract a new set of customers that will increase overall home equity production. Regions continues to deepen customer relationships and diversify our consumer loan portfolio through both the expansion of the indirect auto business and re-entry into the credit card business, which the company expects to grow incrementally over time.
 
The company's aggregate loan yield was down 11 basis points linked quarter to 4.18 percent. This was primarily driven by the continued low interest rate environment, higher mortgage prepayments and pricing competition. In addition, the previous quarter benefited from significant interest recoveries on loan reversals.
Funding mix improvement continues to drive decline in deposit costs
Average low-cost deposits grew 0.5 percent linked quarter while higher cost time deposits declined 9.5 percent. This shift drove an improvement in the company's funding mix during the quarter, as average low-cost deposits as a percentage of total deposits rose to 84 percent compared to 78 percent last year. This positive mix shift resulted in deposit costs declining to 28 basis points for the quarter, down 4 basis points from second quarter and 18 basis points from last year. Total funding costs declined to 56 basis points, down 19 basis points from one year ago.
Net interest income from continuing operations was $817 million, a $21 million or 3 percent decrease linked quarter. The resulting net interest margin declined linked quarter to 3.08 percent due to lower loan yields and higher prepayments resulting in lower yields in the investment portfolio partially offset by lower deposit costs.
Record mortgage income drives growth in non-interest revenue
Non-interest revenues from continuing operations totaled $533 million, up 5 percent linked quarter. Mortgage revenue increased to a record high of $106 million, which is 18 percent higher than the previous quarter and 56 percent higher than prior year. Mortgage production for the quarter was approximately $2.2 billion, an 8 percent increase from the prior quarter. HARP II loan production year to date was $1.2 billion, already surpassing the full year company goal of $1 billion in HARP II loans. Throughout 2012 approximately 50 percent of HARP II applications were for homeowners whose mortgage was not originally serviced by Regions. Customers continue to take advantage of the low interest rate environment through traditional and HARP II mortgages for both refinancing and new home purchases.
Non-interest expenses from continuing operations were $869 million, an increase of $27 million linked quarter or 3 percent. This increase in expenses was primarily driven by higher credit related expenses due to lower net gains realized on held for sale property. Specifically, last quarter credit related expenses benefited from net gains of $26 million compared to $17 million in the third quarter. In addition, marketing expenses were elevated this quarter due to the credit card conversion and related expenses.
Asset quality continued to improve
Asset quality continued to improve in the third quarter. The provision for loan losses totaled $33 million or $229 million less than net charge-offs and was materially consistent from second quarter's provision of $26 million. Total net charge-offs decreased linked quarter by 1 percent or $3 million to $262 million. The company's loan loss allowance to non-performing loan coverage ratio was 1.09x and the allowance for loan losses as a percent of loans was 2.74 percent as of September 30, 2012.
 
Non-performing loans, excluding loans held for sale, totaled $1.9 billion and were down $31 million or 2 percent linked quarter. Seasonal factors impacted inflows of non-performing loans resulting in an increase to $463 million or 47 percent from the second quarter, however inflows were down 39 percent from the prior year. Business Services criticized loans also declined 6 percent in the quarter and are down 30 percent year-over-year.
Strong capital and solid liquidity
Tier 1 and Tier 1 common
1
capital
ratios remained strong, ending the third quarter at an estimated 11.5 percent and 10.5 percent, respectively. The company's liquidity position at both the bank and the holding company remains solid as well. As of September 30, 2012, the company's loan-to-deposit ratio was 79 percent. Tangible book value reached $7.02 for the third quarter, an increase of 5 percent over the second quarter.
 
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation, with $122 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, mortgage, and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,700 banking offices and 2,000 ATMs. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at
www.regions.com.
Forward-looking statements
This presentation may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("the Act") provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements which are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of non-GAAP financial measures
Various pages of this earnings release refer to pre-tax pre-provision income (PPI) and the impact of the acceleration related to the repurchase of the Series A preferred stock on earnings per share.
Page two of this earnings release presents Tier 1 common risk-based ratio (non-GAAP) and tangible common ratios (non-GAAP). Page three of the financial supplement shows additional ratios based on return on average assets, tangible common stockholders' equity, efficiency ratio, as well as the Tier 1 common risk-based ratio and computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment (non-GAAP).
Regions believes that the presentation of PPI and the exclusion of certain items to PPI provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the company on the same basis as that applied by management.
The preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment charge are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes that the exclusion of the preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment in expressing earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, including "earnings (loss) per common share, excluding preferred dividends and accretion" and "earnings (loss) per common share, excluding goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit" provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the company and predicting future performance.
Tangible common stockholders' equity ratios have become a focus of some investors and management believes they may assist investors in analyzing the capital position of the company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a
 
bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the company's Comprehensive Capital Assessment and Review process, these regulators supplement their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions' capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders' equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or prescribed in amount by the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common equity, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on these same bases.
Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a company's balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk-weighted category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity. Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.
Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non-GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment, does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e. preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment are reductions in earnings and stockholders' equity).
Management and the Board of Directors utilize non-GAAP measures as follows:
 
 
 
 
See page 8 of the supplement to this earnings release for the computation of income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) to pre-tax pre-provision income (non-GAAP) to adjusted pre-tax pre-provision income (non-GAAP). See pages 16-19 of the supplement to this earnings release for 1) computation of GAAP net income (loss) available to common shareholders, earnings (loss) per common share and return on average assets to non-GAAP financial measures, 2) income (loss) and earnings per common share from continuing operations (GAAP) to continuing operations excluding preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment (non-GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders' equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders' equity (non-GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of stockholders' equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of ending stockholder' equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) excluding series A preferred stock and warrant retirement 6) a reconciliation of non-interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of non-interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), 8) a computation of the efficiency ratio and fee ratio (non-GAAP).

Exhibit 99.2
 
Regions Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries
Financial Supplement to Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release
Table of Contents
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
Selected Ratios and Other Information
 
 
 
Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
Loans
 
 
Loan Portfolio Balances by Percentage
 
 
Deposits
 
Deposits by Percentage
 
 
 
Pre-Tax Pre-Provision Income from Continuing Operations (non-GAAP)
 
The Pre-Tax Pre-Provision Income (PPI) from Continuing Operations table above presents computations of pre-tax pre-provision income from continuing operations excluding certain adjustments (non-GAAP). Regions believes that the presentation of PPI and the exclusion of certain items to PPI provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of income that excludes certain adjustments does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders.
 
 
Non-Interest Income and Expense from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Quality
 
Allowance for Credit Losses
 
 
 
Troubled Debt Restructurings
 
Credit Costs
 
 
 
Gross and Net NPL Migration
 
 
Foreclosed Properties
 
Non-Performing Loans Held for Sale
 
 
Composition of Non-Performing Loans Held for Sale
 
 
Early and Late Stage Delinquencies
30-89 Days Past Due Loans
 
90+ Days Past Due Loans
 
OO = Owner Occupied
 
 
Non-Accrual Loans (excludes loans held for sale)
 
OO = Owner Occupied
 
Business Services Credit Quality - Criticized Loans
 
Investor Real Estate Analysis
Represents percent of loan balances in the portfolio
 
 
 
 
Residential Lending Net Charge-off Analysis
 
 
 
 
Notes: * Recoveries are pro-rated based on charge-off balances.
           * Balances shown on an ending basis. Net loss rates calculated using average balances
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
Net Income (Loss) and Earnings (Loss) Per Share
The table below presents earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations, excluding preferred dividends and accretion. The table also presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, excluding goodwill impairment (non-GAAP) recorded in 2011. The preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment charge are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes that the exclusion of the preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment in expressing earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, including "earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding preferred dividends and accretion" and "earnings (loss) per common share, excluding goodwill impairment" provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business because management does not consider the preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures for the following purposes: preparation of Regions' operating budgets; monthly financial performance reporting; monthly close-out reporting of consolidated results (management only); and presentations to investors of Company performance. Regions believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment charge does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e. the preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment charge are reductions in earnings and stockholders' equity).
 
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures - Continuing Operations
Fee Income Ratios and Efficiency Ratios
The table below presents computations of the efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, generally calculated as non-interest expense divided by total revenue. The table also shows the fee ratio (non-GAAP), generally calculated as non-interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non-interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis (GAAP) and non-interest income are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by manageme to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management.
 
Adjusted Non-Interest Income/Expense
The table below presents computations of adjusted non-interest income/expense for the third quarter of 2012 and the second quarter of 2012 (non-GAAP). Management uses these measures to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest income/expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income/expense (non-GAAP). Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management.
 
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
Return Ratios, Tangible Common Ratios, Capital
The following tables provide calculations of "return on average assets from continuing operations", "return on average tangible common stockholders' equity", end of period "tangible common stockholders' equity" ratios and a reconciliation of stockholders' equity (GAAP) to tangible common stockholders' equity (non-GAAP), Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and "Tier 1 common equity" (non-GAAP). Tangible common stockholders' equity ratios have become a focus of some investors and management believes they may assist investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations. In connection with the Company's Comprehensive Capital Assessment and Review ("CCAR"), these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions' capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders' equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders' and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or prescribed in any amount by federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common equity, management believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on these same bases.
Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a company's balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk-weighted category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP). Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio (non-GAAP). The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.
 
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
Tier 1 Capital - With History Adjusted for Series A Retirement
Regions' Series A preferred stock was repurchased on April 4, 2012 and the warrant to purchase 48.3 million shares of Regions common stock was retired on May 2, 2012. The following table presents the calculations of Tier 1 capital and the Tier 1 capital ratio, adjusted as if the repurchase of the shares and the retirement of the warrant occurred on the last day of the quarter for each prior period presented. The amount retired includes the Series A preferred stock plus the remaining balance of the related discount.
 
 
 
Statements of Discontinued Operations (unaudited)
On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan and Company, Inc. and related affiliates to Raymond James Financial Inc. The sale was closed on April 2, 2012. Regions Investment Management, Inc. (formerly known as Morgan Asset Management, Inc.) and Regions Trust are not included in the sale. In connection with the closing, the Company and Raymond James agreed that in lieu of the $250 million pre-closing dividend from Morgan Keegan and Company, Inc. to the Company as contemplated in the original agreement, the parties would increase the purchase price by the same amount. The total purchase price received by the Company was approximately $1.2 billion. In connection with the agreement, the results of the entities being sold are reported as discontinued operations. The following tables represent the unaudited condensed results of operations for discontinued operations.
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This presentation may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("the Act") provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements which are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act")became law in July 2010, and a number of legislative, regulatory and tax proposals remain pending. Additionally, the U.S. Treasury Department and federal banking regulators continue to implement, but are also beginning to wind down, a number of programs to address capital and liquidity in the banking system. Future and proposed rules, including those that are part of the Basel III process are expected to require banking institutions to increase levels of capital. All of the foregoing may have significant effects on Regions and the financial services industry, the exact nature and extent of which cannot be determined at this time.
Possible additional loan losses, impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, and adjustment of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and the impact on earnings and capital.
Possible changes in interest rates may increase funding costs and reduce earning asset yields, thus reducing margins. Increases in benchmark interest rates would also increase debt service requirements for customers whose terms include a variable interest rate, which may negatively impact the ability of borrowers to pay as contractually obligated.
Possible changes in general economic and business conditions in the United States in general and in the communities Regions serves in particular, including any prolonging or worsening of the current unfavorable economic conditions including unemployment levels.
Possible changes in the creditworthiness of customers and the possible impairment of the collectability of loans.
Possible changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations, may have an adverse effect on business.
Possible regulations issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or other regulators which might adversely impact Regions' business model or products and services.
Possible stresses in the financial and real estate markets, including possible continued deterioration in property values.
Regions' ability to manage fluctuations in the value of assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet exposure so as to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity to support Regions' business.
Regions' ability to expand into new markets and to maintain profit margins in the face of competitive pressures.
Regions' ability to develop competitive new products and services in a timely manner and the acceptance of such products and services by Regions' customers and potential customers.
Regions' ability to keep pace with technological changes.
Regions' ability to effectively manage credit risk, interest rate risk, market risk, operational risk, legal risk, liquidity risk, reputational risk, and regulatory and compliance risk.
Regions' ability to ensure adequate capitalization which is impacted by inherent uncertainties in forecasting credit losses.
The cost and other effects of material contingencies, including litigation contingencies, and any adverse judicial, administrative or arbitral rulings or proceedings.
The effects of increased competition from both banks and non-banks.
The effects of geopolitical instability and risks such as terrorist attacks.
Possible changes in consumer and business spending and saving habits could affect Regions' ability to increase assets and to attract deposits.
The effects of weather and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, wind, tornados and hurricanes, and the effects of man-made disasters.
Possible downgrades in ratings issued by rating agencies.
Possible changes in the speed of loan prepayments by Regions' customers and loan origination or sales volumes.
Possible acceleration of prepayments on mortgage-backed securities due to low interest rates and the related acceleration of premium amortization on those securities.
The effects of problems encountered by larger or similar financial institutions that adversely affect Regions or the banking industry generally.
Regions' ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries.
The effects of the failure of any component of Regions' business infrastructure which is provided by a third party.
Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies.
The effects of any damage to Regions reputation resulting from developments related to any of the items identified above
The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. For discussion of these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, look under the captions "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in Regions' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and the "Foward-Looking Statements" section of Regions' Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, and June 30, 2012.
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions often signify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time.
Regions' Investor Relations contact is List Underwood at (205) 801-0265; Regions' Media contact is Tim Deighton at (205) 264-4551

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Regions Financial
3rd Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call
October 23, 2012
 
BOTTOM -LINE PROFITS INCREASE AS WE CONTINUE TO SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS PLANS
3Q12 Financial Highlights
Diluted EPS
$0.21
Pre-tax Pre-provision
$481
Income1
million
EPS from Continuing
Operations
$0.22
Regions is focused on:
diversifying and building revenue sources
streamlining processes to better serve customers
improving productivity and efficiencies
providing new technology that supports customers' changing needs
ensuring superior risk management
further strengthening our balance sheet
Simply put, Regions is transitioning to growthprudent and profitable growth.
(1) Non-GAAP See appendix for GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation
 
3Q12 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
($ in millions, except EPS)
3Q11
2Q12
3Q12
3Q12 vs. 2Q12
3Q12 vs. 3Q11
From Continuing Operations
Net Interest Income
$850
$838
$817
$(21)
-3%
$(33)
-4%
Non-Interest Revenue
513
507
533
26
5%
20
4%
Non-Interest Expense
850
842
869
27
3%
19
2%
Pre-tax Pre-provision Income (PPI) (non-GAAP)1
513
503
481
(22)
-4%
(32)
-6%
Net Charge-Offs
511
265
262
(3)
-1%
(249)
-49%
Loan Loss Reserve Reduction
(156)
(239)
(229)
10
4%
(73)
-47%
Loan Loss Provision
355
26
33
7
27%
(322)
-91%
Preferred Expense
54
71
  
(71)
NM
(54)
NM
Net Income Available to Common Shareholders
87
280
312
32
11%
225
NM
from Continuing Operations
Net Income / (Loss) from Discontinued
Operations
14
4
(11)
(15)
NM
(25)
NM
Net Income Available to Common Shareholders
$101
$284
$301
$17
6%
$200
198%
Diluted EPS
$0.08
$0.20
$0.21
$0.01
5%
$0.13
163%
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations
$0.07
$0.20
$0.22
$0.02
10%
$0.15
214%
Diluted EPS from Discontinued Operations
$0.01
$0.00
($0.01)
($0.01)
NM
($0.02)
-200%
(1) Non-GAAP See appendix for GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation
 
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOANS* HAVE GROWN ALMOST 9% OVER PRIOR YEAR
Commercial & industrial loan balances on an average basis increased $2.1 billion, or nearly 9% from the prior year
Commercial & industrial line utilization rose 60 basis points to 43.9% & commitments have increased 12% over the last year
Investor real estate totaled $8.7 billion at quarter end and has now been reduced to 12% of total loans down from 15% one year ago
Indirect auto experienced a record quarter as production increased 10% over last quarter and average loan balances increased 6.3%
* Average Balances
 
FUNDING MIX CONTINUES TO IMPROVE AS DEPOSIT COSTS DECLINED 4 BPS
Avg. time deposits as a % of avg. deposits decreased to 16% in 3Q12 from 22% in 3Q11
Deposit repricing opportunities remain, maturities include:
4Q12$3B at 2.10%
1H13$4.9B at 1.69%
2H13$2.3B at 0.66%
Deposit costs declined 4 bps linked quarter, down 18 bps year-over-year
Total funding costs improved to 56 bps, down 19 bps from one year ago
* Average Balances
 
NET INTEREST MARGIN IMPACTED BY CONTINUED LOW RATE ENVIRONMENT
 -  Net interest margin was impacted by the low rate environment, which drove higher prepayment rates in our mortgage loan balances
 -  Securities portfolio yield impacted by increased prepays and lower investment yields
 -  Recoveries of interest on non-accrual loans impacted NIM by 10 bps in Q3 versus 7 bps in Q2; Q2 benefitted from larger than usual full loan payoffs
 -  Cash reserves negatively impacted net interest margin 7 bps in 3Q12 compared to 8 bps in 2Q12, an improvement of 1 bp
Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin1
$ in millions
$859 $858 $839 $850 $830
3.16%
3.09%
3.08% 3.08%
3.04%
3Q11 4Q11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12
Net Interest Income (FTE)
Net Interest Margin
(1) From continuing operations
REGIONS
6
 
RECORD HIGH IN MORTGAGE INCOME DRIVES NON-INTEREST REVENUE
Non-interest revenue increased 5% linked quarter
Mortgage revenues increased 18% linked quarter and 56% over last year
At the end of the third quarter we reached 1.2 billion in HARP II loans, exceeding our original goal of $1 billion for the full year
Mortgage loan production of approximately $2.2 billion reflects an increase of 8% from the second quarter
 
NON-INTEREST EXPENSES IMPACTED BY CREDIT EXPENSES
Non-interest expenses were up 3% linked quarter due to an increase in credit related expenses, marketing expenses and salaries and benefits
Other real estate expenses increased $3 million over prior quarter or 30%
Held for sale experienced net gains of $17 million related to property sales, reflecting asset value improvements, compared to $26 million in net gains in the prior quarter
Overall 2012 expenses from continuing operations are expected to be down from 2011 as a result of our continued and disciplined focus on cost control
(1) From continuing operations adjusted to exclude goodwill -Non-GAAP, see appendix for GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation
8
 
CONTINUED MOMENTUM IN ASSET QUALITY METRICS
 
CAPITAL RATIOS REMAIN STRONG
 -  Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio(2) estimated under the new proposed rules at 8.7%
 -  Loan to deposit ratio remains low, allowing Regions to be ready for loan growth when the market demand increases
(1) Current Quarter ratios are estimated
(2) Non-GAAP  See appendix for reconciliation
(3) Includes Series A Preferred Stock and associated warrant
(4) Based on ending balances
 
APPENDIX
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This presentation may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (" the Act" ) provides a " safe harbor" for forward-looking statements which are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the " Dodd-Frank Act" )became law in July 2010, and a number of legislative, regulatory and tax proposals remain pending. Additionally, the U.S. Treasury Department and federal banking regulators continue to implement, but are also beginning to windnd down, a numberumbe of programs to addressddre capital and liquiditliquidity in the banking system. Futurere and pro popo sed rules, includinging thoho se that are part of thehe Basel III process are expected to require banking institutions to increase levels of capital. All of the foregoing may have significant effects on Regions and the financial services industry, the exact nature and extent of which cannot be determined at this time.
Possible additional loan losses, impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, and adjustment of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and the impact on earnings and capital.
Possible changes in interest rates may increase funding costs and reduce earning asset yields, thus reducing margins. Increases in benchmark interest rates would also increase debt service requirements for customers whose terms include a variable interest rate, which may negatively impact the ability of borrowers to pay as contractually obligated.
Possible changes in general economic and business conditions in the United States in general and in the communities Regions serves in particular, including any prolonging or worsening of the current unfavorable economic conditions including unemployment levels.
Possible changes in the creditworthiness of customers and the possible impairment of the collectability of loans.
Possible changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations, may have an adverse effect on business.
 Possible regulations issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or other regulators which might adversely impact Regions' business model or products and services.
Possible stresses in the financial and real estate markets, including possible continued deterioration in property values.
Regions' ability to manage fluctuations in the value of assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet exposure so as to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity to support Regions' business.
Regions' ability to expand into new markets and to maintain profit margins in the face of competitive pressures.
Regions' ability to develop competitive new products and services in a timely manner and the acceptance of such products and services by Regions' customers and potential customers.
Regions' ability to keep pace with technological changes.
Regions' ability to effectively manage credit risk, interest rate risk, market risk, operational risk, legal risk, liquidity risk, reputational risk, and regulatory and compliance risk.
Regions' ability to ensure adequate capitalization which is impacted by inherent uncertainties in forecasting credit losses.
The cost and other effects of material contingencies, including litigation contingencies, and any adverse judicial, administrative or arbitral rulings or
The effects of increased competition from both banks and non-banks.
The effects of geopolitical instability and risks such as terrorist attacks.
Possible changes in consumer and business spending and saving habits could affect Regions' ability to increase assets and to attract deposits.
The effects of weather and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, wind, tornados and hurricanes, and the effects of man-made disasters.
Possible downgrades in ratings issued by rating agencies.
Possible changes in the speed of loan prepayments by Regions' customers and loan origination or sales volumes.
Possible acceleration of prepayments on mortgage-backed securities due to low interest rates and the related acceleration of premium amortization on those securities.
The effects of problems encountered by larger or similar financial institutions that adversely affect Regions or the banking industry generally.
Regions' ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries.
The effects of the failure of any component of Regions' business infrastructure which is provided by a third party.
Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies.
The effects of any damage to Regions reputation resulting from developments related to any of the items identified above
The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. For discussion of these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, look under the captions " Forward-Looking Statements" and " Risk Factors" in Regions' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011and the "Foward-Looking Statements" section of Regions' Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended M arch 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012.
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions often signify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that
aremadefrom timeto time.
 
NON -GAAP RECONCILIATION: NET INCOME / (LOSS) AND EARNINGS / (LOSS) PER SHARE
The table below presents earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations, excluding preferred dividends and accretion. The table also presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, excluding goodwill impairment (non-GAAP) recorded in 2011. The preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment charge are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) . Regions believes that the exclusion of the preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment in expressing earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, including "earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding preferred dividends and accretion" and "earnings (loss) per common share, excluding goodwill impairment" provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business because management does not consider the preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures for the following purposes: preparation of Regions' operating budgets; monthly financial performance reporting; monthly close-out reporting of consolidated results (management only); and presentations to investors of Company performance. Regions believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment charge does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e. the preferred dividends and accretion and goodwill impairment charge are reductions in earnings and stockholders' equity).
As of and for Quarter Ended
($ amounts in millions, except per share data)
09/30/12
06/30/12
03/31/12
12/31/11
9/30/11
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP)
$301
$284
$145
$(602)
$101
Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP)
  
71
54
54
54
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP)
(11)
4
(40)
(467)
14
Income (loss) from continuing operations (GAAP)
A
$312
$351
$239
$(81)
$141
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP)
B
$301
$284
$145
$(602)
$101
Goodwill impairment, net of tax
  
  
  
731
  
Income available to common shareholders, excluding goodwill
impairment (non-GAAP)
C
$301
$284
$145
$129
$101
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP)
B
$301
$284
$145
$(602)
$101
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP)(1)
(11)
4
(40)
(467)
14
Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common
shareholders (GAAP)
D
312
280
185
(135)
87
Goodwill impairment from continuing operations (non-
deductible)
  
  
  
253
  
Income from continuing operations available to common
shareholders, excluding goodwill impairment (non-GAAP)
E
$312
$280
$185
$118
$87
Weighted-average diluted shares
F
1,423
1,418
1,283
1,259
1,261
Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations,
excluding preferred dividends and accretion - diluted (non-
GAAP)
A/F
$0.22
$0.25
$0.19
$(0.06)
$0.11
Earnings (loss) per common share - diluted (GAAP)
B/F
$0.21
$0.20
$0.11
$(0.48)
$0.08
`
Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations -
diluted (GAAP)
D/F
$0.22
$0.20
$0.14
$(0.11)
$0.07
Earnings per common share from continuing operations,
excluding goodwill impairment - diluted (non-GAAP)
E/F
$0.22
$0.20
$0.14
$0.09
$0.07
(1) There are no preferred shares allocable to discontinued operations.
 
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION: PRE-TAX PRE-PROVISION INCOME
The Pre-Tax Pre-Provision Income (PPI) from Continuing Operations table below presents computations of pre-tax pre-provision income from continuing operations excluding certain adjustments (non-GAAP) . Regions believes that the presentation of PPI and the exclusion of certain items to PPI provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of income that excludes certain adjustments does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders.Quarter Ended
3Q12 3Q12 ($ amounts in millions) 9/30/12 6/30/12 3/31/1212/31/11 9/30/11 vs. 2Q12 vs. 3Q11 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ 312 $ 280 $ 185 $ (135) $ 87 $ 32 11.4% $ 225 258.6% Preferred dividends (GAAP) - 71 54 54 54 (71) NM (54) NM Income tax expense (GAAP) 136 126 82 18 17 10 7.9% 119 NM Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (GAAP) 448 477 321 (63) 158 (29) -6.1% 290 183.5% Provision for loan losses (GAAP) 33 26 117 295 355 7 26.9% (322) -90.7% Pre-tax pre-provision income from continuing operations (non-GAAP) 481 503 438 232 513 (22) -4.4% (32) -6.2% Goodwill impairment - - - 253 - - - - -Pre-tax pre-provision income from continuing operations, excluding goodwill impairment (non-GAAP) 481 503 438 485 513 (22) -4.4% (32) -6.2%
 
NON -GAAP RECONCILIATION: FEE INCOME RATIOS AND EFFICIENCY RATIOS
The table below presents computations of the efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, generally calculated as non-interest expense divided by total revenue. The table also shows the fee ratio (non-GAAP), generally calculated as non-interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non-interest income (GAAP) is presented excludin g certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable -equivalent basis (GAAP) and non-interest income are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP) . Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management . ($ amounts in millions) 9/30/12 6/30/12 3/31/12 12/31/11 9/30/11 Continuing Operations Non-interest expense (GAAP) $ 869 $ 842 $ 913 $ 1,124 $ 850 Adjustments: Securities impairment, net - (2) - (2) -Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges - - - 2 -Goodwill impairment - - - (253) -Adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP) G $ 869 $ 840 $ 913 $ 871 $ 850 Net interest income, taxable-equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 830 $ 850 $ 839 $ 858 $ 859 Non-interest income (GAAP) $ 533 $ 507 $ 524 $ 507 $ 513 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (12) (12) (12) (7) 1 Leveraged lease termination (gains) losses, net - (7) (7) (10) 2 Adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP) H 521 488 505 490 516 Adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP) I $ 1,351 $ 1,338 $ 1,344 $ 1,348 $ 1,375 Fee income ratio (non-GAAP) H/I 38.6% 36.5% 37.6% 36.4% 37.5% Efficiency ratio (non-GAAP) G/I 64.3% 62.8% 67.9% 64.6% 61.8%
 
NON -GAAP RECONCILIATION: TIER 1 COMMON
 
The following table provides calculations of Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and "Tier 1 common equity" (non-GAAP) . Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations. In connection with the Company's Comprehensive Capital Assessment and Review ("CCAR"), these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions' capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because Tier 1 common equity is not formally defined by GAAP or prescribed in any amount by federal banking regulations, this measure is considered to be a non-GAAP financial measure and other entities may calculate it differently than Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using Tier 1 common equity, management believe s that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on this same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a company's balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk-weighted category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) . Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio (non-GAAP) . The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. As of and for Quarter Ended ($ amounts in millions, except per share data) 9/30/12 6/30/12 3/31/12 12/31/11 9/30/11 TIER 1 COMMON RISK-BASED RATIO (1) - CONSOLIDATED Stockholders' equity (GAAP) $ 14,901 $ 14,455 $ 17,534 $ 16,499 $ 17,263 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss (202) (54) 60 69 (92) Non-qualifying goodw ill and intangibles (4,836) (4,852) (4,881) (4,900) (5,649) Disallow ed deferred tax assets (238) (336) (345) (432) (506) Disallow ed servicing assets (33) (33) (36) (35) (35) Qualifying non-controlling interests 93 92 92 92 92 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 846 846 846 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) $ 10,531 $ 10,118 $ 13,270 $ 12,139 $ 11,919 Qualifying non-controlling interests (93) (92) (92) (92) (92) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846) (846) (846) (846) (846) Preferred stock - - (3,429) (3,419) (3,409) Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) O $ 9,592 $ 9,180 $ 8,903 $ 7,782 $ 7,572 Risk-w eighted assets (regulatory) P 91,621 91,779 92,546 91,449 92,786 Tier 1 common risk-based ratio (non-GAAP) O/P 10.5% 10.0% 9.6% 8.5% 8.2%
 
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION: TIER 1 CAPITAL
Regions' Series A preferred stock was repurchased on April 4, 2012 and the warrant to purchase 48.3 million shares of Regions common stock was retired on May 2, 2012. The following table presents the calculations of Tier 1 capital and the Tier 1 capital ratio, adjusted as if the repurchase of the shares and the retirement of the warrant occurred on the last day of the quarter for each prior period presented. The amount retired includes the Series A preferred stock plus the remaining balance of the related discount. Quarter Ended
($ amounts in millions) 9/30/12 6/30/12 3/31/12 12/31/11 9/30/11 TIER 1 RISK-BASED RATIO Stockholders' equity $ 14,901 $ 14,455 $ 17,534 $ 16,499 $ 17,263 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss (202) (54) 60 69 (92) Non-qualifying goodw ill and intangibles (4,836) (4,852) (4,881) (4,900) (5,649) Disallow ed deferred tax assets (238) (336) (345) (432) (506) Disallow ed servicing assets (33) (33) (36) (35) (35) Qualifying non-controlling interests 93 92 92 92 92 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 846 846 846 Tier 1 capital as reported $ 10,531 $ 10,118 $ 13,270 $ 12,139 $ 11,919 Series A Preferred Stock Retirement (Reduction to Stockholders' equity) $ - $ - $ (3,500) $ (3,500) $ (3,500) Retirement of w arrant to purchase 48.3 million shares of Regions common stock - - (45) (45) (45) Tier 1 capital as adjusted to exclude Series A Preferred Stock $ 10,531 $ 10,118 $ 9,725 $ 8,594 $ 8,374 Risk-w eighted assets(1) 91,621 91,779 92,546 91,449 92,786 Tier 1 capital ratio(1) 11.5% 11.0% 14.3% 13.3% 12.8% Tier 1 capital ratio excluding Series A Preferred Stock and associated w arrant(1) 11.5% 11.0% 10.5% 9.4% 9.0% (1) Current quarter amounts and the resulting ratios are estimated
 
NON -GAAP RECONCILIATION: BASEL III
 
The following table provides calculations of Tier 1 common, based on Regions' current understanding of Basel III requirements, as proposed by the U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking released in June 2012. Regions currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord ("Basel I") of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the "Basel Committee") . In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulation. In June 2012, U.S. Regulators released three separate Notices of Proposed Rulemaking covering U.S. implementation of the Basel III framework. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased -in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. Implementation of Basel III will begin on January 1, 2013, and will be phased in over a six-year period. The calculations provided below are estimates, based on Regions' current understanding of the framework, including the Company's reading of the requirements, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions' understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on the same basis. Estimate based on June 2012 U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking ($ amounts in millions) 9/30/2012 Stockholders' equity (GAAP) 14,901 Non-qualifying goodw ill and intangibles (1) (4,987) Adjustments, including other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges, disallow ed deferred tax assets, threshold deductions and other adjustments (312) Basel III Tier 1 Common (non-GAAP) 9,602 Basel I risk-w eighted assets 91,621 Basel III risk-w eighted assets (2) 110,343 Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio 8.7%
 


