FILE:RF/RF-8K-20120124070132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2012 Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release announcing its preliminary results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Supplemental financial information for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011 is attached as Exhibit 99.2. Executives from Regions will review the results via teleconference and live audio webcast at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time today. A copy of a visual presentation that will be a part of that review is attached as Exhibit 99.3. All of the attached exhibits are incorporated herein and may also be found on Regions website at .
www.regions.com
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, this information is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 24, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.  (BUSINESS WIRE)  January 24, 2012  Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF) today reported financial results for the quarter and year ending December 31, 2011.
Key points for the quarter and full year included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
Non-GAAP, refer to the following pages of the financial supplement to this earnings release:
 
 
 
 
 
*Tier 1 Common and Tier 1 Capital ratios for the current quarter are estimated.
~ Annualized
Previously announced non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to Morgan Keegan impacts earnings
As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions results for the fourth quarter include a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of tax) within the investment banking/brokerage/trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation as required by GAAP, $478 million was recorded within Discontinued Operations and $253 million within Continuing Operations. Regulatory and tangible capital ratios were not impacted by this charge.
 
Disciplined execution of business plan
Regions' fourth quarter net loss available to common shareholders was $602 million or $0.48 per diluted share, bringing full-year results to a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million or $0.34 per diluted share. The loss in the fourth quarter and full year was negatively impacted by the goodwill impairment charge related to both discontinued and continuing operations. Regions' fourth quarter and full-year results from continuing operations were also negatively impacted by the $253 million goodwill impairment, resulting in a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $135 million, or $0.11 per diluted share in the fourth quarter and $25 million or $0.02 per diluted share in 2011. Excluding goodwill impairment
1
, fourth quarter net income from continuing operations totaled $118 million or $0.09 per share. Excluding goodwill impairment and a tax benefit from the second quarter regulatory charge
1
, net income from continuing operations available to common shareholders in 2011 was $211 million or $0.17 per diluted share
1
.
Total loan production for the year was solid, with continued growth of commercial & industrial loans. Credit-related costs declined significantly versus 2010, as the full-year loan loss provision declined $1.3 billion or 47 percent. Average low cost deposits grew more than $4 billion or nearly 6 percent which led to a 29 basis points decline in total deposit costs in 2011. Excluding goodwill impairment, fourth quarter pre-tax, pre-provision income
1
of $485 million exceeded the loan loss provision for the third quarter in a row.
"Despite a continued challenging economic and legislative environment in 2011 we were able to stay focused on our business plan and deliver solid results." said Grayson Hall, president and chief executive officer. "We improved our fundamentals, profitably grew our customer base, further de-risked our balance sheet, and took actions that better position us for the future. While the economic outlook in 2012 is likely to present its challenges, I am confident that we will continue to make progress to benefit our shareholders, associates and customers."
Focus on expanding customer relationships and profitable growth
The company remains focused on deepening existing relationships as well as profitably growing new customers by emphasizing superior customer service backed by a broad array of quality products at a fair price.
Total loan production for the year increased to $60 billion. Commercial loan production (including renewals) constituted the majority of that total at $51 billion, of which $15 billion was new loan production, a 14 percent increase over the last year. Growth in lending to middle market commercial and industrial customers continued, with average loans in this category up 11 percent for the full year, and 2 percent in the fourth quarter. Total commercial and industrial commitments grew $1.2 billion, or 4 percent linked quarter. The company continues to focus on its health care, franchise restaurant and transportation specialized industry groups and is expanding into other industry practices, such as technology and defense. Consumer loan production totaled $9 billion in 2011, which reflected strength in mortgage, indirect auto and the company's purchased credit card portfolio.
 
The company's aggregate loan yield increased 4 basis points linked quarter to 4.35 percent, reflecting slightly higher LIBOR rates, partially offset by pricing competition and interest rate swaps that matured in the quarter. Overall, ending loans declined 2 percent linked quarter reflecting a further $1.2 billion decline in the investor real estate portfolio as the company continued its de-risking efforts. This portfolio now comprises only 14 percent of the company's total loan portfolio, down from 19 percent a year ago.
Improving funding mix
The company's funding mix continued to improve during the quarter, as average low-cost deposits as a percentage of total deposits rose to 79.2 percent compared to 77.8 percent last quarter. This positive mix shift resulted in deposit costs declining to 40 basis points for the quarter, down 6 basis points from third quarter and a 7 basis points decline in total funding costs to 68 basis points.
Net interest income was $849 million, stable linked quarter, as a reduction in funding costs was offset by a 1.6 percent decline in average earning assets. The net interest margin was 3.08 percent, an increase of 4 basis points. The net interest margin benefited from lower deposit costs and an $843 million decrease in lower average excess cash reserves at the Federal Reserve. The benefits were partially offset by higher prepayments in the securities portfolio and the resulting premium amortization, as well as the impact of maturing interest rate swaps.
Growing fee income and expanding services
Non-interest revenues totaled $507 million, a decline of 1 percent linked quarter. Service charges declined nearly $47 million linked quarter as the Durbin Amendment rules took effect October 1
st
. This reduction was in line with expectations and was partially offset by ongoing actions, including restructuring certain deposit accounts from free to fee-eligible, re-entry into the credit card business and the NOW banking product suite launch. Overall service charges for the year were in line with 2010 despite the negative impact of legislative changes. The company is managing through these changes by generating new revenue streams and expects to fully mitigate this impact over time.
As an example, the company recently launched its NOW suite of banking products offering pre-paid reloadable cards, expanded check cashing, money transfers, and expedited bill payment services. These services are being offered through nearly 1,600 branches at year end and program-to-date, the company has executed approximately 40,000 transactions on behalf of its customers with a total transaction value of approximately $25 million. The company has also experienced results from the changes in its checking account structure, as approximately 24 percent of checking accounts currently pay a fee, up from 11 percent this time last year.
Mortgage revenue declined 16 percent linked quarter, reflecting reduced benefits from mortgage servicing rights and related hedging activities. Production in the fourth quarter totaled $1.8 billion, bringing full year production to $6.3 billion. Further, the extended Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP II, is expected to enhance mortgage production next year.
 
Focused on improving productivity and reducing non-interest expenses
Non-interest expenses increased $274 million linked quarter due to the goodwill impairment charge. Excluding goodwill impairment
1
, non-interest expenses increased 2 percent linked quarter, reflecting $16 million of expense related to Visa class B shares litigation. Excluding goodwill impairment and prior year's regulatory charge
1
, non-interest expenses declined 5 percent for the full year as the company remained focused on enhancing productivity and efficiency. During 2011, the company reduced headcount by over 1,000 positions and square footage by approximately 700,000 square feet.
Credit quality steadily improving
Over the past year the company sharply reduced credit-related costs, with the full-year loan loss provision down $1.3 billion, or 47 percent, from 2010. Total net charge-offs in the fourth quarter declined $81 million or 16 percent linked quarter and declined 29 percent when comparing 2011 to 2010. The company's loan loss allowance to non-performing loan coverage ratio increased from 1.01x to 1.16x year-over-year and the allowance for loan losses as a percent of loans was 3.54 percent as of December 31, 2011.
Non-performing loans, excluding loans held for sale, declined for the seventh straight quarter and were down $338 million or 12 percent linked quarter. Inflows of non-performing loans declined to $561 million or 26 percent from the third quarter. Inflows continue to be primarily income-producing commercial real estate loans which have cash flows and lower loss severities than land, condo and single-family loans. In addition, 48 percent of ending Business Services' non-performing loans were current and paying as agreed as of December 31, 2011, up from 45 percent in the prior quarter. Business Services criticized loans also declined 13 percent in the quarter and are down 35 percent year-over-year. The company executed sales of problem assets totaling $306 million and moved $334 million of problem loans to held for sale during the quarter. Throughout 2011, the company reduced non-performing assets by $922 million or 24 percent.
Divestiture of Morgan Keegan
On January 11
th
, the company announced an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan & Co., Inc. and related entities to Raymond James Financial for $930 million. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay the company a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approval, resulting in total proceeds of $1.18 billion to the company, subject to adjustment. The transaction, expected to close in the first quarter of 2012, reduces the company's overall risk profile, provides greater liquidity at the holding company level and increases key capital ratios. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale and will remain part of Regions' Wealth Management organization. Regions plans to establish a strong partnership with Raymond James with depository, lending and processing relationships that will provide incremental revenue opportunities and a source of low-cost deposits. The company remains committed to serving affluent and mass affluent customers through its recently announced Wealth Management Group.
 
Strong capital and liquidity
Tier 1 and Tier 1 common
1
capital ratios remained healthy, ending the quarter at an estimated 13.2 percent and 8.5 percent, respectively, and on a Basel III basis
1
were estimated to be 7.7 percent and 11.3 percent, above the respective 7 percent and 8.5 percent minimum requirements. The company's liquidity position at both the bank and the holding company remains strong as well. As of December 31, 2011, the company's loan-to-deposit ratio was 81 percent.
1
Non-GAAP, refer to the following pages of the financial supplement to this earnings release:
 
 
 
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation, with $127 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, trust, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,700 banking offices and more than 2,000 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 90 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at
www.regions.com
.
Forward-looking statements
This press release may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("the Act") provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements which are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions often signify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time.
The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. For discussion of these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, look under the captions "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in Regions' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011, as on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Use of non-GAAP financial measures
Pages two and three of this earnings release present computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding goodwill impairment (non-GAAP), Tier 1 common risk-based ratio (non-GAAP) and tangible common ratios (non-GAAP). Page four of the financial supplement shows additional ratios based on return on average assets, tangible common stockholders' equity, efficiency ratio, as well as the Tier 1 common risk-based ratio and computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding goodwill impairment (non-GAAP), the regulatory charge and the federal income tax benefit related to the regulatory charge (non-GAAP). Tangible common stockholders' equity ratios have become a focus of some investors and management believes they may assist investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Company's Comprehensive Capital Assessment and Review process, these regulators supplement their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1
 
common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions' capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders' equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common equity, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on these same bases.
Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a company's balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk-weighted category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity. Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.
Regions currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord ("Basel I") of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the "Basel Committee"). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulation. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased-in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. Implementation of Basel III will begin on January 1, 2013, and will be phased in over a multi-year period. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet finalized regulations governing the implementation of Basel III. Accordingly, the calculations provided on page 23 are estimates, based on Regions' current understanding of the framework, including the Company's reading of the requirements, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions' understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on the same basis.
Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non-GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes goodwill impairment, the regulatory charge and the federal income tax benefit related to the regulatory charge does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e. goodwill impairment and the regulatory charge is a reduction in earnings and stockholders' equity).
Management and the Board of Directors utilize non-GAAP measures as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 10 of the supplement to this earnings release for the computation of income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) to pre-tax pre-provision income (non-GAAP) to adjusted pre-tax pre-provision income (non-GAAP). See page 11 of the supplement to this earnings release for the computation of non-interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to non-interest expense from continuing operations excluding goodwill impairment (non-GAAP). See pages 20, 21, 22 and 23 of the supplement to this earnings release for 1) computation of GAAP net income (loss) available to common shareholders, earnings (loss) per common share and return on average assets to non-GAAP financial measures, 2) income (loss) and earnings per common share from continuing operations (GAAP) to continuing operations excluding goodwill impairment, regulatory charge and related tax benefit (non-GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders' equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders' equity (non-GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of stockholders' equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of non-interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), 6) a reconciliation of non-interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), 7) a computation of the efficiency ratio and fee ratio (non-GAAP), and 8) a reconciliation of stockholders' equity (GAAP) to Basel III Tier 1 capital (non-GAAP) and Basel III Tier 1 common (non-GAAP).
 

Exhibit 99.2
Regions Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries
Financial Supplement to Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release
Table of Contents
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Selected Ratios and Other Information from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis from Continuing Operations
 
 
 
Loans
 
 
Loan Portfolio Mix
Loan Portfolio Balances by Percentage
 
OO = Owner Occupied
 
Pre-Tax Pre-Provision Income from Continuing Operations (non-GAAP)
 
The Pre-Tax Pre-Provision Income from Continuing Operations table above presents computations of pre-tax pre-provision income from continuing operations excluding certain adjustments (non-GAAP). Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of income that excludes certain adjustments does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders.
 
 
Non-Interest Income and Expense from Continuing Operations
Non-Interest Income from continuing operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Quality
 
Allowance for Credit Losses
 
 
 
 
Troubled Debt Restructurings
 
Business Services Criticized Loan Summary
The tables below present a summary of Business Services loans by risk rating category and by portfolio segment.
 
Note: As of December 31, 2011 there were $27 million accruing Commercial TDRs that were "Pass" rated and $108 million accruing Investor Real Estate TDRs that were "Pass" rated, that are not illustrated in the table above.
 
Note: As of September 30, 2011 there were $16 million accruing Commercial TDRs that were "Pass" rated and $67 million accruing Investor Real Estate TDRs that were "Pass" rated, that are not illustrated in the table above.
 
Gross and Net NPA Migration
 
 
Gross NPL Migration
 
Credit Costs
 
 
 
Early and Late Stage Delinquencies
30-89 Days Past Due Loans
 
90+ Days Past Due Loans
 
 
 
Non-Accrual Loans (excludes loans held for sale)
 
 
Business Services Credit Quality - Criticized Loans
 
Residential Lending Net Charge-off Analysis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investor Real Estate Analysis
 
 
Investor Real Estate Analysis
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
Net Income (Loss) and Earnings (Loss) Per Share
The table below presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, excluding goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit (non-GAAP). The goodwill impairment charge and the regulatory charge and related tax benefit are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes that the exclusion of the goodwill impairment and the regulatory charge and related tax benefit in expressing earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, including "earnings (loss) per common share, excluding goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit", "return on average assets, excluding goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit" and "return on average tangible common stockholders' equity, excluding goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit" (explained on next page) provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business because management does not consider the goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures for the following purposes: preparation of Regions' operating budgets; monthly financial performance reporting; monthly close-out "flash" reporting of consolidated results (management only); and presentations to investors of company performance. Regions believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non-GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the goodwill impairment charge and the regulatory charge and related tax benefit does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e. the goodwill impairment charge and the regulatory charge are reductions in earnings and stockholders' equity).
 
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures - Continuing Operations
Fee Income Ratios and Efficiency Ratios
The tables below present computations of the efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, generally calculated as non-interest expense divided by total revenue. The table also shows the fee ratio (non-GAAP), generally calculated as non-interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes this measure provides meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non-interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis (GAAP) and non-interest income are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management.
 
Adjusted Non-Interest Expense
The table below presents computations of full year adjusted non-interest expense for 2011 and 2010 (non-GAAP). Management uses these measures to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP). Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions' business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management.
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
Return Ratios, Tangible Common Ratios, Capital
The following tables provide calculations of "return on average tangible common stockholders' equity", end of period "tangible common stockholders' equity" ratios and a reconciliation of stockholders' equity (GAAP) to tangible common stockholders' equity (non-GAAP) and Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to "Tier 1 common equity" (non-GAAP). Tangible common stockholders' equity ratios have become a focus of some investors and management believes they may assist investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Company's Comprehensive Capital Assessment and Review ("CCAR"), these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions' capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders' equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders' and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders' equity and Tier 1 common equity, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on these same bases.
Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a company's balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk-weighted category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity. Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures
Basel III
The following tables provide calculations of Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common, based on Regions' current understanding of Basel III requirements. Regions currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord ("Basel I") of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the "Basel Committee"). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulation. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased-in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. Implementation of Basel III will begin on January 1, 2013, and will be phased in over a multi-year period. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet finalized regulations governing the implementation of Basel III. Accordingly, the calculations provided below are estimates, based on Regions' current understanding of the framework, including the Company's reading of the requirements, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions' understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions' disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on the same basis.
 
 
 
 
Statements of Discontinued Operations (unaudited)
On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan and Company, Inc. and related affiliates to Raymond James Financial, Inc. for approximately $930 million. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approval, resulting in total proceeds of $1.18 billion to Regions, subject to adjustments based on the aggregate amount of 2011 gross revenues generated by employees in certain selected business units who remain with Morgan Keegan or Raymond James as of the date 90 days following the closing date of the transaction. The transaction is anticipated to close during the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale and will remain part of Regions' Wealth Management organization. In connection with the agreement, the results of the entities being sold are reported as discontinued operations. The following tables represent the unaudited condensed results of operations for discontinued operations.
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This supplement may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("the Act") provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements which are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions often signify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time.
The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive; for discussion of these and other risks that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, look under the captions "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in Regions' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011 as on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Regions' Investor Relations contact is List Underwood at (205) 801-0265; Regions' Media contact is Tim Deighton at (205) 264-4551



