FILE:RF/RF-8K-20120404130521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 4, 2012, Regions Financial Corporation issued a press release announcing completion of its repurchase of the $3.5 billion of the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Troubled Asset Relief Program's Capital Purchase Program. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 4, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 (BUSINESS WIRE)  April 4, 2012  Regions Financial Corp. (NYSE:RF) announced today that it has completed its repurchase of $3.5 billion of Series A Preferred Stock issued under the U.S. Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program's Capital Purchase Program. In addition to fully repaying the government's investment, Regions has previously paid a total of $593 million in dividends to taxpayers. On an annual ongoing basis, the repurchase eliminates the payment of $175 million in dividends on these securities.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.
The repurchase follows Regions' successful completion of a $900 million common equity offering and the completion of its sale of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion to Regions.
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation, with $127 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, mortgage, and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,700 banking offices and 2,100 ATMs. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at
www.regions.com.
 


