FILE:RF/RF-8K-20120425160043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
(e) In 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of Regions Financial Corporation (the "Company") amended the compensation of certain senior executive officers (including all of the Company's named executive officers ("NEOs")) in order to comply with the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance (the "TARP Compensation Standards") issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in June 2009.
Salary stock was a form of compensation contemplated under the TARP Compensation Standards as a type of compensation linked to stockholder interests. The Committee elected to issue salary stock as part of the Company's compensation programs beginning in 2009.
As previously reported, the Company has repurchased the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Department of Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. On April 19, 2012, the Committee terminated the salary stock arrangements for all NEOs pursuant to the previously disclosed salary stock agreements with the NEOs, effective for the payroll period beginning April 15, 2012.
 
(a) On April 25, 2012, the Company filed a Certificate of Elimination with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware effecting the elimination of the Certificate of Designation of the Company's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the "Series A Preferred Stock"). On April 4, 2012 the Company completed its repurchase of the 3,500,000 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. No shares of the Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding after the repurchase. Following the filing of the Certificate of Elimination, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference herein, all previously-authorized shares of the Series A Preferred Stock resumed the status of undesignated shares of the Company's preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 25, 2012

Exhibit 3.1
Regions Financial Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), certifies as follows:
The Certificate of Designations filed on May 13, 2010 and constituting part of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Designations") authorizes the issuance of 3,500,000 shares of preferred stock of the Corporation, par value $1.00 per share, designated as Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the "Series A Preferred Stock").
FIRST:
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL"), the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted the following resolutions:
SECOND:
that none of the authorized shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding and none of the authorized shares of such series of preferred stock will be issued subject to the Certificate of Designations; and
RESOLVED,
that the Secretary of the Corporation is authorized and directed to execute a Certificate of Elimination as provided by Section 151(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law in accordance with Section 103 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, substantially in the form attached as an exhibit to these resolutions, with such changes therein as the Secretary may approve and as are permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law to be made by such officer, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by the Secretary's execution of such Certificate of Elimination, and to file the same forthwith in the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, and when such Certificate of Elimination becomes effective, all references to the Series A Preferred Stock in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall be eliminated and the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock shall resume the status of authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation, without designation as to series.
RESOLVED,
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 151(g) of the DGCL, all references to Series A Preferred Stock in the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation hereby are eliminated, and the shares that were designated to such series hereby are returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation, without designation as to series.
THIRD:
 
the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Elimination to be signed by Fournier J. Gale, III, its Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, this 25
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
th
day of April, 2012.
 
 


