FILE:RF/RF-8K-20120313171444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
    On March 13, 2012 , in connection with the offering of common stock described in Item 8.01 below, Regions Financial Corporation ("Regions") is disclosing certain expectations relating to its results of operations for the first quarter of 2012 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. A copy of such information is included as Exhibit 99.1.
    The expectations described in this Exhibit 99.1 are preliminary and are based upon information currently available. No assurance can be given that its financial results for the completed quarter will be consistent with Regions' current expectations described therein.
    Regions is scheduled to report its first quarter results on April 24, 2012.
    In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, this information is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
    On March 13, 2012, Regions issued a press release announcing its commencement of an underwritten public offering of approximately $900 million of its common stock as part of its plan to repurchase the $3.5 billion of the Series A Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock issued to the United States Department of the Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program. A copy of the press release related to the offering is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(b) Pro forma financial information
    A pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011, giving effect to the pending sale of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates to Raymond James Financial, Inc., is included as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Expectations Relating to Results of Operations for the First Quarter of 2012 as Compared to Fourth Quarter of 2011
Comparing current expectations for first quarter 2012 results from continuing operations with the actual results reported in the fourth quarter of 2011, we anticipate the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The expectations described in this section are preliminary and are based upon information currently available. No assurance can be given that our financial results for the completed quarter will be consistent with our current expectations described above.
Regions is scheduled to report first quarter results on April 24, 2012.
Forward-looking Statements
This disclosure may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements which are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, unless the context implies otherwise, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and similar expressions often signify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 today announced that it has commenced an underwritten public offering of approximately $900 million of its common stock (the "Offering") as part of its plan to repurchase the $3.5 billion of Series A Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury Department under the Troubled Asset Relief Program's (TARP) Capital Purchase Program (CPP). This action is included in Regions' capital plan, which was submitted to the Federal Reserve on January 9, 2012. The Federal Reserve has completed its review of the plan under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") and informed Regions that it had no objections to the capital actions set forth in the plan.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (March 13, 2012)
Regions Financial (NYSE:RF)
"We are pleased with the outcome of the capital plan review and believe it demonstrates the strength of our company. Our capital position will be strengthened even further with these actions, which will enable us to continue growing profitable customer relationships," said Grayson Hall, Regions' president and chief executive officer. "We appreciate the U.S. Treasury's investment in Regions during the financial crisis and are proud that these steps will result in the full return of the taxpayers' $3.5 billion preferred investment as well as the previous payment of $593 million in dividends."
The repurchase of the Series A Preferred Stock will be contingent on approval by the Federal Reserve and Treasury Department and is expected to follow the closing of the sale of Morgan Keegan & Co. Inc. and related affiliates, which is anticipated in early April. Regions intends to use the proceeds from the Offering and the sale of Morgan Keegan along with other available funds to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. is serving as Global Coordinator and joint book-running manager of the Offering, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, is serving as Capital Advisor related to our CCAR plan and joint book-running manager of the Offering, and Barclays Capital Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. are serving as joint book-running managers of the Offering. Morgan Keegan is serving as lead manager.
Following completion of the Offering (assuming (i) net proceeds of $875 million, (ii) consummation of our transaction to sell Morgan Keegan & Co. Inc. and related affiliates and (iii) repurchase of our Series A Preferred Stock,), we expect that our pro forma Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common risk-based (non-GAAP) ratios would be approximately 10.55% and 9.51%, based on the December 31, 2011, ratios of 13.28% and 8.51%, respectively. (See "GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation" below.)
The Federal Reserve also issued its estimates of revenues and losses under its supervisory stress scenario, as well as pro forma, post-stress capital ratios for each of the 19 bank holding companies that participated in CCAR in 2011. Regions exceeded the minimum required capital level over the entire the review period. The projections released by the Federal Reserve in connection with the CCAR are based on a hypothetical, severely
 
adverse macroeconomic and financial market scenario developed by the Federal Reserve, featuring a deep recession in the United States, significant declines in asset prices and increases in risk premia, and a slowdown in global economic activity, including a peak unemployment rate of 13%, a 50% drop in equity prices, and a 21% decline in housing prices. The supervisory stress scenario is not the Federal Reserve's forecast for the economy, but was designed to represent an unlikely outcome that may occur if the U.S economy were to experience a deep recession at the same time that economic activity in other major economies contracted significantly. The projections should not be interpreted as expected or likely outcomes for Regions, but rather as possible results under hypothetical, highly adverse conditions. The projections incorporate a number of conservative modeling assumptions, which differ from assumptions Regions uses in its capital planning.
The Federal Reserve also calculated stressed capital ratios for the review period excluding proposed capital actions. Because of the nature and timing of the capital actions Regions is taking, the Federal Reserve's estimate of the company's minimum Tier 1 Common ratio assuming no capital actions has no bearing on the company's strength. Unlike a dividend raise or share repurchase that may continue during the nine-quarter review period, the capital actions Regions has proposed are currently being executed and we expect will be completed in a matter of weeks. As a result, the most relevant minimum stressed ratio for Regions during the period ending in the fourth quarter of 2013 is the ratio that includes all proposed capital actions, which is in the top quartile of the 19 banks in the CCAR review. However, even absent the current capital actions, Regions' results still exceed the minimum required capital levels throughout the review period.
Regions has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus and prospectus supplement) with the Securities and Exchange Commission related to the Offering. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus and prospectus supplement in the registration statement and other documents Regions has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the company and the Offering. You may obtain these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the prospectus and prospectus supplement may be obtained upon request by contacting:
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
 
This press release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell, any securities. The solicitation of offers to purchase our common shares will be made only pursuant to the company's prospectus, dated February 24, 2010, as supplemented by its prospectus supplement dated March 13, 2012, and related documents that the company has filed or will file with the SEC.
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation, with $127 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, trust, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers in 16 states across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,700 banking offices and more than 2,000 ATMs. Its investment and securities brokerage trust and asset management division, Morgan Keegan & Company Inc., provides services from over 90 offices. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at
www.regions.com.
Forward-looking statements
This press release may include forward-looking statements which reflect Regions' current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements that are identified as such and are accompanied by the identification of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For these statements, we, together with our subsidiaries, unless the context implies otherwise, claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor in the Act. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and similar expressions often signify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time.
GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation
The following table provides a reconciliation of stockholders' equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP). Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with CCAR, these regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions' capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because Tier 1 common equity is not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, this measure is considered to be a non-GAAP financial measure and other entities may calculate it differently than Regions' disclosed calculation. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions' capital adequacy using Tier 1 common equity, we believe that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions' capital adequacy on these same bases.
Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a company's balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk-weighted category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity. Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common risk-based ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
The following pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet has been presented to give effect to and show the pro forma impact of the closing of the pending sale of Morgan Keegan and related affiliates as of December 31, 2011. The adjustments assume a tax election is made by Raymond James Financial, Inc. and Regions subsequent to closing. If the election is not made, the adjustments to other liabilities and retained earnings would be impacted. The consolidated statements of operations included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 have been prepared with all activity related to the entities being sold presented as discontinued operations. Accordingly, as the historical financial statements already fully incorporate the impact of the transaction related to continuing operations, no pro forma statement of operations is necessary. No assurance can be given that such transaction will be completed on the terms assumed for the purposes of this presentation of pro forma financial information or at all.
The unaudited pro forma capital information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not necessarily indicate the results that would have been realized had the transactions been completed as of December 31, 2011. The unaudited pro forma information has been derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, Regions' historical consolidated financial statements included in Regions' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 


