FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20070802142039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
On August 2, 2007, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing its results of operations for, and its financial condition as of the end of, the second quarter of fiscal 2007. Second quarter 2007 results include the full quarter results from the operations of NYSE Group and the results of Euronext N.V. as of April 4, 2007, the date on which the combination of NYSE Group, Inc. and Euronext was consummated.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. NYSE Euronext does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK  Aug. 2, 2007  NYSE Euronext (NYSE Euronext: NYX) today reported net income of $161 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, for the three months ended June 30, 2007, a 164% increase as compared to net income of $61 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, for the three months ended June 30, 2006. These results are presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
Second quarter 2007 GAAP results include the operations of NYSE Group for the full quarter and the results of Euronext N.V. from April 4, 2007, the closing date of the combination between NYSE Group and Euronext N.V. The comparative results for 2006 reflect the operations of NYSE Group only.
Included in the results for the three months ended June 30, 2007 are $16 million in merger expenses and exit costs consisting primarily of professional and other fees incurred in connection with both the acquisition of Archipelago Holdings on March 7, 2006 and the combination with Euronext N.V. on April 4, 2007.
Giving effect to the combinations as if they had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented, but excluding merger expenses, exit costs and other non-recurring items, NYSE Euronext's net income on a non-GAAP basis for the three months ended June 30, 2007 would have been $172 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, a $39 million or 29% increase as compared to net income of $133 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, for the three months ended June 30, 2006. In addition, on a non-GAAP basis, operating income grew 27% to $275 million for the second quarter of 2007 from $217 million in the year-ago period. A full reconciliation of these non-GAAP results is included in the attached tables.
At constant USD/ exchange rates, excluding acquisitions and divestitures which occurred during the period from June 30, 2006 through June 30, 2007, and on a non-GAAP basis, combined NYSE Euronext revenues, net of activity assessment fees, for the three months ended June 30, 2007 increased 12% while fixed operating expenses (defined as operating expenses, net of Section 31 fees, merger expenses, exit costs, liquidity payments, routing and clearing fees) decreased 9% compared to the three months ended June 30, 2006.
"Record revenues in our European cash and derivatives trading, as well as balanced growth in other business lines, including listings and market data, produced a strong second quarter for NYSE Euronext," said Nelson Chai, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "These results underscore NYSE Euronext's growing product and geographic diversity, as well as increasing user demand for our products and services on a global scale. Our business integration efforts are progressing well, and we remain focused on strategically advancing our global leadership position for the benefit of our customers and shareholders. Moreover, giving effect to foreign currency translations and recent acquisitions, we continue to reduce our fixed expense base through aggressive cost management, which is driving further expansion of our operating margin."
Other Second Quarter Financial and Corporate Highlights
 
 
 
Second Quarter Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position, or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses and exit costs, and other non-recurring items, and (ii) to improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this release.
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext, a holding company created by the combination of NYSE Group, Inc. and Euronext N.V., commenced trading on April 4, 2007. NYSE Euronext (NYSE Euronext: NYX) operates the world's largest and most liquid exchange group and offers the most diverse array of financial products and services. NYSE Euronext, which brings together six cash equities exchanges in five countries and six derivatives exchanges in six countries, is a world leader for listings, trading in cash equities, equity and interest rate derivatives, bonds and the distribution of market data. Representing a combined $30.8 trillion/22.8 trillion total market capitalization of listed companies and average daily trading value of approximately $127.0 billion/94.0 billion (as of June 29, 2007), NYSE Euronext seeks to provide the highest standards of market quality and integrity, innovative products and services to investors, issuers, and all users of its markets.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NYSE Euronext's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are based on NYSE Euronext's current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause NYSE Euronext's results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: NYSE Euronext's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk and U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NYSE Euronext's reference document for 2006 ("document de rfrence") filed with the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers (Registered on June 6, 2007 under No. R.07-0089), 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NYSE Euronext that the projections will prove to be correct. This press release speaks only as of this date. NYSE Euronext disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
 
 
 
 
1. The acquisistion of PCX Holdings and subsidiaries by Archipelago;
2. The disposition of Wave Securities by Archipelago,
3. The merger of Archipelago and NYSE, and
4. The merger of NYSE Group and Euronext.
Merger expenses and exit costs of $99 million and $32 million have been eliminated from the results of operations for the three
months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and $119 million and $36 million for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, as they represent nonrecurring charges directly attributable to either the merger of the NYSE and Archipelago or the merger of NYSE Group and Euronext N.V.
In addition, gains on sale of businesses and equity investments of $2 million and $0 have been eliminated from the results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and $3 million and $66 million for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, as they represent nonrecurring items.
Activity assessment fees and Section 31 fees have not been presented as they have no impact on operating income or net income.
 
 
 
 
 
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
 
 
 
Please refer to footnotes on the following page.
 
 
Source: NYSE Euronext, Options Clearing Corporation and Consolidated Tape as reported for equity securities.
All trading activity is single-counted, except European cash trading which is double counted to include both buys and sells.
 
 
Figures for Euronext present the operating companies listed on Eurolist, Alternext, and Free Market, and do not include closed-end funds, ETFs and structured product (warrants and certificates). At the end of June 2007, 100 companies were listed on Alternext and 203 ETFs were listed on NextTrack.
Source: NYSE Euronext
 


