FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20070426073834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
On April 26, 2007, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing NYSE Group, Inc.'s ("NYSE Group") results of operations for, and its financial condition as of the end of, the first quarter of fiscal 2007. First quarter 2007 results include the full quarter results from the operations of NYSE Group only. The combination between NYSE Group and Euronext N.V. was consummated on April 4, 2007; therefore, the operations of Euronext are not included in the first quarter results of NYSE Group.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. NYSE Euronext does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK  April 26, 2007  NYSE Euronext (NYSE Euronext: NYX) today reported results for NYSE Group of net income of $67.6 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, for the three months ended March 31, 2007, a $37.3 million or 123% increase as compared to net income of $30.3 million, or $0.24 per diluted share, for the three months ended March 31, 2006. These results are presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
Due to the fact that the combination between NYSE Group and Euronext N.V. was consummated on April 4, 2007, first quarter 2007 results include the full quarter results from the operations of NYSE Group only; the operations of Euronext are not included in the first quarter results of NYSE Group.
The merger between NYSE, Inc. and Archipelago Holdings, Inc. was completed on March 7, 2006. As such, first quarter 2006 results include the full quarter results from the operations of NYSE, Inc., the predecessor of NYSE Group, and the operations of NYSE Arca (formerly known as the Archipelago Exchange, or ArcaEx, and the Pacific Exchange) since March 8, 2006.
Included in results for the first quarter of 2007 are $11.1 million in merger expenses consisting of professional and other fees incurred in connection with both the acquisition of the Archipelago businesses and the recently completed combination with Euronext N.V. ($4.6 million), and exit costs associated with the previously announced trading floor consolidation ($6.5 million).
On a non-GAAP basis, giving effect to the Archipelago merger as if it occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented, and excluding the merger and exit costs, the net income of NYSE Group for the three months ended March 31, 2007 would have been $74.2 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, a $21.2 million or 40.0% increase as compared to net income, on a non-GAAP basis, of $52.9 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, for the three months ended March 31, 2006. A full reconciliation of these non-GAAP results is included in the attached tables.
 
"As we transition from NYSE Group into the newly-formed NYSE Euronext, the world's largest and most diverse exchange group, we continue to develop our multinational business model to enhance our listings and equities trading operations, and support our growing initiatives in derivatives, bonds, options and ETFs," said NYSE Euronext Chief Financial Officer, Nelson Chai. "NYSE Euronext is committed to providing exceptional shareholder value while expanding upon our position as the first global marketplace group, further evidenced by this quarter's announcements of our purchase of a 5% stake in India's National Stock Exchange and our strategic alliance with the Tokyo Stock Exchange."
"As we work towards the realization of our integration targets with Euronext, we will further enhance our value proposition to investors and listed companies by offering the ability to trade and list the widest range of products in multiple time zones and currencies, leverage our unique advantages as an operator of six exchanges in five countries, and deliver on our well defined cost savings and revenue synergies of $375 million over the next three years."
Other Financial Highlights
 
 
 
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement NYSE Group's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Group uses non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. A non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses and exit costs, and (ii) to improve overall understanding of NYSE Group's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Group believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance.
 
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext, a holding company created by the combination of NYSE Group, Inc. and Euronext N.V., commenced trading on April 4, 2007. NYSE Euronext (NYSE Euronext: NYX) operates the world's largest and most liquid exchange group and offers the most diverse array of financial products and services. NYSE Euronext, which brings together six cash equities exchanges in five countries and six derivatives exchanges in six countries, is a world leader for listings, trading in cash equities, equity and interest rate derivatives, bonds and the distribution of market data. Representing a combined $28.5 trillion/21.5 trillion total market capitalization of listed companies and average daily trading value of approximately $123.4 billion/92.4 billion (as of March 31, 2007), NYSE Euronext seeks to provide the highest standards of market quality and integrity, innovative products and services to investors, issuers, and all users of its markets.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NYSE Euronext's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are based on NYSE Euronext's current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause NYSE Euronext's results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: NYSE Euronext's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk and U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NYSE Euronext's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-137506), NYSE Euronext Registration Statement () filed with the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers (Registered on November 30, 2006 under No. 06-0184), Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NYSE Euronext that the projections will prove to be correct. This press release speaks only as of this date. NYSE Euronext disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
document de base
 
 
 
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
 
 
One time compensation charges recorded by NYSE Group at the time of the merger ($37,690) and acceleration of certain Archipelago stock options ($2,378) immediately prior to the merger were eliminated.
Additionally, a $20,925 gain recorded by NYSE Group in connection with the sale of DTCC common shares to certain DTCC participants was eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Data for the first quarter of 2007 excludes recent Nasdaq-listed data revisions for February 13, 2007, which were not made available until April 11, 2007. We estimate that these changes are immaterial, and would have impacted overall quarterly market share trends by less than 0.1%. We intend to reflect these data revisions in our second quarter 2007 volume release.
 


