FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20070920162528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On September 17, 2007, Gerald Putnam, former Vice Chairman of NYSE Group, Inc., executed documents relating to his departure and new consulting arrangement.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
                Exhibit Index
Exhibit No.   Description
99.1       Gerald Putnam Separation Agreement
99.2       Gerald Putnam Consulting Agreement
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE
Agreement and General Release ("Agreement"), by and between Gerald Putnam ("Employee" or "you") and NYSE Euronext ("NYSE Euronext"), on behalf of itself and its past and/or present parent entities, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliates and related business entities, successors and assigns, assets, employee benefit plans or funds, and any of its or their respective past, present and/or future directors, officers, fiduciaries, agents, trustees, administrators, employees and assigns, whether acting on behalf of NYSE Euronext or in their individual capacities (collectively the "NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities").
. You acknowledge your separation from employment with the NYSE Euronext effective September 10, 2007 (the "Separation Date"), and that after the Separation Date you shall not represent yourself as being an employee, officer, agent or representative of NYSE Euronext for any purpose, except as otherwise provided below. The Separation Date shall be the termination date of your employment for purposes of participation in and coverage under all benefit plans and programs sponsored by or through the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities, except as otherwise provided below.
Concluding Employment
. In exchange for your waiver of claims against NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities and your compliance with the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, NYSE Euronext agrees to the following:
Company Covenants
a. To retain you for up to 12 months as an independent contractor/consultant ("Consultant") to NYSE Euronext, at a rate of $20,000 per month, prorated for partial months, in accordance with the terms of a separate Consulting Agreement in the form attached hereto ("Consulting Agreement").
b. . Effective as of your Separation Date, you hold a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement dated February 5, 2007 (the "RSU Agreement") pursuant to which a total of 19,786 restricted stock units ("RSUs") were granted to you under the NYSE Group, Inc. ("NYSE Group") 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan") with respect to common stock of NYSE Euronext ("Common Stock"). In addition, effective as of your Separation Date, you hold a Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement dated February 6, 2007 (the "Non-Qualified Option Agreement") pursuant to which you were granted non-qualified stock options ("Non-Qualified Options") to purchase up to a total of 19,755 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $99.50 per share. As of your Separation Date, no portion of the RSUs or Non-Qualified Options have vested. In accordance with the applicable terms of the Incentive Plan, RSU Agreement and the Non-Qu alified Option Agreement and subject to your compliance with the terms of the Consulting Agreement, the RSUs and Non-Qualified Options shall continue to vest during the term of the Consulting Agreement. In consideration of your entry into this Agreement and subject to your compliance with this Agreement and the Consulting Agreement, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Incentive Plan, the RSU Agreement or Non-Qualified Option Agreement, effective September 10, 2008, the date that the Consulting Agreement will terminate ("Restriction Lapse Date"), the balance of your un-vested RSUs and Non-Qualified Options will automatically become 100% fully vested. The RSUs for which accelerated vesting has been provided shall be paid to you in fully vested, unrestricted shares of Common Stock (less shares utilized to satisfy applicable tax withholding requirements) on the first business date following the Restriction Lapse Date. In addition, in consideration of the foregoing, and cond itioned upon your compliance with this Agreement and the Consulting Agreement, the period following the Restriction Lapse Date in which all Non-Qualified Options that are vested and outstanding as of the Restriction Lapse Date shall remain exercisable shall be extended from 30 days to 90 days. The execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto shall constitute an amendment to each of RSU Agreement and to Non-Qualified Option Agreement in the manner described herein.
NYSE Euronext Equity Awards
c. . Effective as of your Separation Date, you hold Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreements dated November 18, 2003, August 12, 2004 and March 16, 2005 (each, a "Legacy Agreement" and together, the "Legacy Agreements") that evidence the grant of certain Non-Qualified Options ("Legacy Options") granted under the Archipelago Holdings, LLC ("Arca") 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Archipelago Holdings, LLC 2004 Stock Incentive Plan ("Arca Plans") that have been converted into options to purchase Common Stock in the amounts and at the exercise prices set forth in Appendix A to this Agreement. As of your Separation Date, the portion of the options specified in Appendix A that are held under each Legacy Agreement are un-vested and, pursuant to the terms of each Legacy Agreement would automatically terminate upon your termination of employment. In consideration of your entry into this Agreement and notwithstanding anything to t he contrary contained in the Legacy Plans or the Legacy Agreements, all un-vested Legacy Options shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable effective as of your Separation Date and all Legacy Options (including those that vested prior to your Separation Date) shall remain exercisable for a period of 180 days following your Separation Date provided you continue to comply with the requirements of this Agreement and the Consulting Agreement. The execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto shall constitute an amendment to each Legacy Agreement in the manner described herein.
Legacy Equity Awards
. You acknowledge and agree that the payments and other benefits provided pursuant to this Agreement: (i) are in full discharge of any and all liabilities and obligations of NYSE Euronext to you, monetarily or with respect to employee benefits or otherwise, including but not limited to any and all obligations arising under any alleged written or oral employment agreement, policy, plan or procedure of NYSE Euronext and/or any alleged understanding or arrangement between you and NYSE Euronext; and (ii) exceed any payment, benefit, or other thing of value to which you might otherwise be entitled under any policy, plan or procedure of NYSE Euronext and/or any agreement between you and NYSE Euronext.
Acknowledgement
. You agree that you will not disparage or encourage or induce others to disparage any of the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "disparage" includes, without limitation, comments or statements to the press and/or media, the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities, or to any individual or entity with whom any of the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities has a business relationship, which would adversely affect in any manner (i) the conduct of the business of any of the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities (including, without limitation, any business plans or prospects) or (ii) the
Non-Disparagement
business reputation of the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities. NYSE Euronext agrees that it and its Chief Executive Officer will refrain from making any public statements, intended to disparage or otherwise damage your reputation.
. a. You agree that you will cooperate with NYSE Euronext and/or the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities and its or their respective counsel in connection with any investigation, administrative proceeding or litigation relating to any matter that occurred during your employment in which you were involved or of which you have knowledge. In conjunction with your compliance with this subparagraph, you agree to make yourself available upon reasonable advance notice, and shall be reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses necessarily incurred with NYSE Euronext's prior consent, except as such expenses relate to your agreement to indemnify the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities as referred to in paragraph 16.
Cooperation
b. You agree that, in the event you are subpoenaed by any person or entity (including, but not limited to, any government agency) to give testimony (in a deposition, court proceeding or otherwise) which in any way relates to your employment by NYSE Euronext and/or the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities, you will give prompt notice of such request to Ms. Dale B. Bernstein, Executive Vice President, NYSE Euronext, 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005 (or her successor or designee) and will make no disclosure until NYSE Euronext and/or the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities have had a reasonable opportunity to contest the right of the requesting person or entity to such disclosure.
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement are and shall be deemed to be confidential, and shall not be disclosed by you to any person or entity without the prior written consent of NYSE Euronext, except if required by law, and to your accountants, attorneys and/or immediate family, provided that, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, rule, code or regulation, they agree to maintain the confidentiality of the Agreement. You further represent that you have not disclosed the terms and conditions of the Agreement to anyone other than your attorneys, accountants and/or immediate family.
Confidentiality
. You acknowledge that during the course of your employment with NYSE Euronext and/or any of the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities, and as Consultant, you have had and will have access to Confidential Information (as defined below). You agree not to disclose or directly or indirectly use such Confidential Information at any time in the future, except if authorized by NYSE Euronext in writing or if required in connection with your role as Consultant or in connection with a subpoena or other legal process or investigation by any governmental or regulatory agency.
Confidential Information
"Confidential Information" means (i) any work performed for NYSE Euronext or the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities (including, but not limited to, Archipelago Holdings, Inc. and its predecessors), drafts thereof, or communications with respect thereto; (ii) any business plans, financial information, compensation plans, regulatory information, inventions, marketing research and strategies, methods, designs, software, drawings, formulae, products, processes, compositions, data, code, trade secrets, business methods, know-how, intellectual property, business strategies, operating procedures or other information of NYSE Euronext, any "NYSE Euronext Affiliate" (which term means any partnership or joint venture of which NYSE Euronext is a part, or any subsidiary, parent or affiliated corporation of NYSE Euronext), or any company whose securities are traded on facilities of NYSE Euronext, obtained in connection with the performance of your employment with NYSE Euro next or as Consultant; (iii) any personally identifiable information protected from disclosure under any law, rule or ordinance, (iv) any information identified by NYSE Euronext to you as confidential; (v) any information of NYSE Euronext or any NYSE Euronext Affiliate which you know or reasonably should have known to be confidential; or (vi) any information of NYSE Euronext or any NYSE Euronext Affiliate of a type or character that a reasonable person would regard as confidential. You further acknowledge and agree that the foregoing Confidential Information is the sole property of NYSE Euronext and/or the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities, as applicable, and that such information has trade secret status; accordingly, you agree that you will not use the Confidential Information for yourself or others or in any manner other than as may be required in the execution of your obligations to NYSE Euronext under this Agreement and/or the Consulting Agreement.
Confidential Information shall not include any information which (i) is or becomes publicly known through no breach of any confidentiality obligation by you; or (ii) is approved for release by written authorization of NYSE Euronext.
In the event that you are requested pursuant to, or required by, applicable law or regulation of any governmental entity, or legal process to disclose any Confidential Information, you will notify NYSE Euronext promptly so that NYSE Euronext may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy, and you will cooperate fully with NYSE Euronext in protecting Confidential Information to the extent possible under applicable law. In the event that no such protective order or other remedy is obtained, or that NYSE Euronext does not waive compliance with the terms hereof applicable to such disclosure, NYSE Euronext nonetheless shall be deemed to consent to the disclosure of, and you will furnish, only that portion of the Confidential Information which you are legally required to disclose and you agrees to exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded the information so disclosed.
Policy"), including, but not limited to any obligations incumbent upon Consultant as a former Section 16(b) executive.
The foregoing obligations are in addition to, and not in limitation of, any obligations of confidentiality or other obligations arising out of your employment by NYSE Euronext or any such obligations under NYSE Euronext's Officers' and Employees' Statement of Business Conduct and Ethics, and NYSE Euronext's Statement of Business Conduct and Ethics for Non-NYSE Euronext Personnel (the "Non-Employee Ethics
. You agree that for the period of time that you are acting as a Consultant to NYSE Euronext and for the 12-month period of time following the termination of your consultancy with NYSE Euronext, but in any event no earlier than September 10, 2009, you will not, without the prior written consent of the CEO of the NYSE Euronext (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), directly or indirectly:
Non-Solicitation and Non-Competition
a. own, control, manage, loan money to, represent, render any service or advice to or act as an officer, director, employee, agent, representative, partner or independent contractor of any securities exchange, "ECN," or other such entity whose principal business materially competes with the businesses of NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities as in effect prior to or during your consultancy ("Competitive Activities"); , , that the foregoing shall not prohibit you from passive ownership of securities in any publicly traded company that is engaged in any such business as long as you do not own more than five percent (5%) or more of any class of the equity securities of such company.
provided
however
b. Solicit, induce, influence, encourage, or attempt to solicit, induce, influence or encourage, either directly or indirectly, any person employed by the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities to terminate his or her employment relationship with the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities or hire or employ or engage any such person or otherwise interfere with any such person's employment by or association with the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities;
c. Induce, influence, encourage, or attempt to induce, influence or encourage, either directly or indirectly, any third party to terminate such party's business relationship with the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities or otherwise interfere with any business or contractual relationship of NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities; or
d. Take any other action reasonably intended to be detrimental to the relationship of NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities with its employees, customers, vendors, or suppliers.
e. Serve as a board member on any board of directors of any company engaged in Competitive Activities.
In addition, Section 8 of your Employment Agreement with Arca dated as of December 19, 2001, and as subsequently amended ("Employment Agreement"), which provides for certain restrictive covenants to apply to you following your termination of employment are hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement.
. a. In consideration for the benefits provided to you pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Agreement, you, for yourself and for your heirs, executors, administrators, trustees, legal representatives and assigns (hereinafter referred to collectively as "Releasors"), forever release and discharge the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities from any and all claims, demands, causes of action, fees and liabilities of any kind whatsoever, whether known or unknown, which you ever had, now have, or may have against any of the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities by reason of any act, omission, transaction, practice, plan, policy, procedure, conduct, occurrence, or other matter up to and including the date on which you sign this Agreement.
Release
b. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Agreement is intended to and shall release the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities from any and all claims, whether known or unknown, which Releasors ever had, now have, or may have against the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities arising out of your employment and/or your separation from that employment, including, but not limited to: (i) any claim under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (excluding claims for accrued, vested benefits under any employee benefit or pension plan of the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities subject to the terms and conditions of such plan and applicable law), and the Family and Medical Leave Act; (ii) any claim under the New York State Human Rights Law, the New York City Administrative Code; (iii) any claim under the Illinois Human Rights Act, the Chicago Human Rights Ordinance, the Cook County Human Rights Ordinance, the Illinois Personnel Code, and the Illinois Whistleblower Act; (iv) any other claim (whether based on federal, state, or local law, statutory or decisional) relating to or arising out of your employment, the terms and conditions of such employment, the termination of such employment, and/or any of the events relating directly or indirectly to or surrounding the termination of that employment, including but not limited to breach of contract (express or implied), wrongful discharge, detrimental reliance, defamation, emotional distress or compensatory or punitive damages; and (v) any claim for attorneys' fees, costs, disbursements and/or the like. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to be or operate as a waiver or release of: (i) any accrued or vested benefits subject to the terms of applicable NYSE Euronext benefit plans, (ii) rights to indemnification under the NYSE Euronext charter or bylaws or under any NYSE Euronext agreements applicable to you, including but not limited to, the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger applicable to the merger of Arca and the NYSE; (iii) rights under this Agreement (or any agreement referenced herein) or (iv) claims that may arise after the date that you sign this Agreement.
. You acknowledge and agree that by virtue of the foregoing, you have waived any relief available to you (including without limitation, monetary damages, equitable relief and reinstatement) under any of the claims and/or causes of action waived in paragraph 4. Therefore you agree that you will not accept any award or settlement from any source or proceeding (including but not limited to any proceeding brought by any other person or by any government agency) with respect to any claim or right waived in this Agreement.
Waiver of Relief
. You represent that you have returned (or will return) to NYSE Euronext all property belonging to NYSE Euronext and/or the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities except as otherwise necessary and authorized for your responsibilities as a Consultant, including but not limited to documents in any form, presentations, files, lists, books, laptop, cell phone, beeper, keys, card access to the building and office floors, Employee Handbook, phone card, rolodex (if provided by NYSE Euronext and/or the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities), computer user name and password, disks and/or voicemail code. You further acknowledge and agree that NYSE Euronext shall have no obligation to make the payment(s) and provide the benefits referred to in paragraph 2 above unless and until you have satisfied all your obligations pursuant to this paragraph.
Return of Property
. If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or arbitrator to be illegal, void or unenforceable, such provision shall have no effect; however, the remaining provisions shall be enforced to the maximum extent possible. Further, if a court or arbitrator should determine that any portion of this Agreement is overbroad or unreasonable, such provision shall be given effect to the maximum extent possible by narrowing or enforcing in part that aspect of the provision found overbroad or unreasonable. Additionally, you agree that any breach of paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and/or 11 of this Agreement by you shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement as to which NYSE Euronext may seek all relief available under the law or at equity.
Severability
. a. This Agreement is not intended, and shall not be construed, as an admission that any of the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities has violated any federal, state or local law (statutory or decisional), ordinance or regulation, breached any contract or committed any wrong whatsoever against you.
Miscellaneous
b. Should any provision of this Agreement require interpretation or construction, it is agreed by the parties that the entity interpreting or construing this Agreement shall not apply a presumption against one party by reason of the rule of construction that a document is to be construed more strictly against the party who prepared the document.
. This Agreement is binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the parties and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Assignment
. a. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to the principles of conflicts of law.
Governing Law; Arbitration
b. With the exception of a claim for injunctive relief, for which jurisdiction shall be reserved in the federal and/or state courts in New York County and with respect to which the parties consent to personal jurisdiction, any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach thereof shall be settled by arbitration before a single arbitrator, in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association (the "AAA") then in effect. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties hereto and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. To the extent permitted by law, the prevailing party will be entitled to all reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in such arbitration.
. You understand that this Agreement sets forth the whole of the agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any other discussions, representations and agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof, except with respect to the NYSE Euronext Consulting Services Agreement dated September 10, 2007, the RSU Agreement, the Non-Qualified Option Agreement, the Legacy Agreements, and Sections 7 (280G gross-up), 8 (non-compete, non-solicitation and confidentiality), 10 (dispute resolution with respect to matters under the Employment Agreement) and 11(d) (tax-withholding) of the Employment Agreement, and any prior agreement by you to indemnify the NYSE Euronext Persons and Entities in connection with any litigation in which you or any entity controlled by you is named as a defendant, each of which shall continue in full force and effect as if, in each instance, such provisions were fully set forth herein, and shall not be superseded except as otherwise modified herein. No other promises or agreements shall be binding unless in writing and signed by both NYSE Euronext and you after the Effective Date of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
. You acknowledge that you: (a) have carefully read this Agreement in its entirety; (b) have had 21 days to consider their terms; (c) are hereby advised by NYSE Euronext in writing to consult with an attorney of your choosing in connection with this Agreement; (d) fully understand the significance of all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and have discussed them with your independent legal counsel, or had a reasonable opportunity to do so; (e) have had answered to your satisfaction any questions you have asked with regard to the meaning and significance of any of the provisions of this Agreement; and (f) are signing this Agreement voluntarily and of your own free will and agree to abide by all the terms and conditions contained herein.
Voluntary Agreement
. You may accept this Agreement by signing it and returning it to Ms. Dale B. Bernstein, Executive Vice President, NYSE Euronext, 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005, within 21 days of your receipt of this Agreement. After executing this Agreement, you shall have seven (7) days (the "Revocation Period") to revoke it by indicating your desire to do so in writing delivered to Ms. Dale B. Bernstein at the address above by no later than 5:00 p.m. on the seventh (7th) day after the date you sign this Agreement. The effective date of this Agreement shall be the eighth (8th) day after you sign it (the "Effective Date"). If the last day of the Revocation Period falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the last day of the Revocation Period will be deemed to be the next business day. In the event you do not accept this Agreement as set forth above, or in the event you revoke this Agreement during the Revocation Period, this Agreement, including but not limited to the obligation of NYSE Euronext to provide payments and benefits set forth in paragraph 2 of this Agreement, shall be deemed automatically null and void.
Acceptance
. The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only. They shall not be considered part of the Agreement and shall not be employed in the construction of the Agreement.
Headings and Captions
 
 
Signature: _______ Date: __
/s/ Gerald Putnam
September 17, 2007
Gerald Putnam
 
STATE OF _____________ )
) ss.:
COUNTY OF ___________ )
On this 17 day of September, 2007, before me personally came Gerald Putnam, to me known and known to me to be the person described and who executed the foregoing Agreement, and he duly acknowledged to me that he executed the same.
__________________________
Notary Public
 
 
NYSE EURONEXT
 
 
BY:______ DATE:__
/s/ Dale B. Bernstein
/s/ September 17, 2007
* Pursuant to, and in accordance with, paragraph 2c. of the Separation Agreement, the un-vested options shown above will vest effective as of the Separation Date.

Consultant: Gerald Putnam
Date: September 10, 2007
A. Whereas, Gerald Putnam ("Putnam" or "Consultant") was the Vice Chairman, NYSE Euronext ("NYSE Euronext"), in which capacity he gained substantial, unique and irreplaceable experience and expertise in connection with NYSE Euronext's business activities;
B. Whereas, Putnam's employment with NYSE Euronext will end effective September 10, 2007;
C. Whereas, NYSE Euronext desires to retain Putnam, and Putnam is willing to act, as a consultant in connection with NYSE Euronext's business activities, pursuant to the Terms and Conditions set forth below.
Services
In accordance with and during the Term of this Agreement, Putnam, as an independent contractor, is retained, and hereby agrees, that he will be available at his reasonable convenience to consult with and provide advice and other services to NYSE Euronext as needed with respect to NYSE Euronext's business activities, including but not limited to: (i) serving as a senior advisor to NYSE Euronext on corporate strategy, technology integration and derivative products and (iii) providing such other reasonable services in connection therewith as are requested by NYSE Euronext from time to time (collectively, the "Work"). Such services are to be rendered to reasonable professional standards.
Ownership of the Work
Any and all property rights in and to the Work, including but not limited to copyright, patent, trademark, service mark and other intellectual or proprietary rights of whatsoever kind (collectively, the "Proprietary Rights"), shall be owned by NYSE Euronext. Without prejudice to any rights NYSE may have should any Work be deemed a "work made for hire" hereunder or by operation of law, Putnam hereby irrevocably assigns, transfers and conveys, to NYSE, without further consideration, all right, title and interest in and to such Work, including all worldwide rights of patent, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights (that exist now or may exist in the future) in such Work, free of all liens, claims and encumbrances. Putnam acknowledges that NYSE and its successors and assigns shall have the right to obtain and hold in their own names any Proprietary Rights in and to the Work. Putnam agrees to execute any documents or take any other actions as may reasonably be nec essary, or as NYSE may reasonably request, to perfect NYSE's ownership of any such Work.
Term and Termination
The Agreement shall commence on September 11, 2007 and shall end on September 10, 2008 (the "Term"), unless both parties agree to extend the Agreement. At any time during the Term, the parties may agree to extend the Agreement, by executing a mutual written agreement to that effect.
At any time during the Term, NYSE Euronext shall have the right to terminate the Agreement for "Cause" (as defined below). In the event NYSE Euronext exercises its right of termination, and except as otherwise requested by NYSE Euronext, Consultant shall: (i) immediately terminate all Work under the Agreement, and (ii) be entitled only to that portion of the Compensation for the Work performed up to the date of such termination.
For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means (i) the Consultant's conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a crime; (ii) an act or acts of dishonesty or misconduct on the Consultant's part which result or are intended to result in damage to NYSE Euronext or NYSE Euronext's business or reputation; (iii) violations by the Consultant of his obligations under this Agreement or the Agreement and General Release between Gerald Putnam and NYSE Euronext dated September 10, 2007; or (iv) a material violation of NYSE Euronext's policies and procedures.
Notwithstanding NYSE Euronext's exercise of its right of termination for Cause, Consultant will remain bound by the provisions of paragraphs 4 through 11 of the Agreement and General Release dated September 10, 2007 and paragraphs 2, 4(e), 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of this Agreement.
Compensation and Reimbursement
Compensation. Provided that Consultant satisfactorily performs Consultant's obligations hereunder, NYSE Euronext shall pay to Consultant as "Compensation" under the Agreement, and Consultant shall accept, payment at the rate of $20,000 per month for each month of consulting services provided by Consultant. If requested by NYSE Euronext, Consultant shall provide a reasonably detailed written accounting, on a periodic basis, of the services performed hereunder.
Consultant shall be entitled to reimbursement for all necessary and/or reasonable expenses incurred at the request of NYSE Euronext, and provided that Consultant provides NYSE Euronext with a receipt or voucher for such expenses.
.
Expenses
Compensation under the Agreement shall be paid once a month on or about the 15th day of such month, commencing September 15, 2007.
.
Payment of Compensation
NYSE Euronext will provide Consultant with an office and an executive assistant for the duration of the consultancy.
Additional Benefits.
Consultant agrees that at any time during the term of the Agreement and the two-year period following the expiration or termination of the Agreement, upon reasonable notice, NYSE Euronext may audit the books and records of Consultant to verify that any payments or reimbursements made under the Agreement were properly made in accordance with the terms of the Agreement. Nothing in this paragraph constitutes any right of Consultant to receive any payment not otherwise provided for in the Agreement.
.
Audit
Consultant agrees that at any time during the term of the Agreement and the two-year period following the expiration or termination thereof, upon reasonable notice from NYSE Euronext, Consultant shall provide NYSE Euronext and any of NYSE Euronext's regulators with reasonable access to, and any assistance that they may reasonably require with respect to, any Consultant facility and system for the purpose of performing audits or inspections of the Work and the business of Consultant relating to the Work, including access to information relating to Consultant's compliance with the Agreement and applicable laws. If any audit results in NYSE Euronext or Consultant being notified that Consultant is not in compliance with any applicable law or the Agreement, without prejudice to any of NYSE Euronext's other rights or remedies under the Agreement, Consultant shall promptly take actions, at its expense, to remedy such non-compliance. Nothing in this paragraph shall limit any of NYSE Euronext's rights or remedie s under the Agreement.
Independent Contractor
The relationship of Consultant to NYSE Euronext shall be that of independent contractor and not of employee or agent, and except as may be otherwise expressly stated herein, Consultant, as an independent contractor, shall be free to choose the details of the manner in which Consultant shall perform the Work, including the hours of work whereby the services are initiated and completed, subject to the business needs of NYSE Euronext. The foregoing notwithstanding, unless pursuant to prior written consent of NYSE Euronext, Consultant may not enter into any subcontract related to the performance of the Work.
Consultant shall not be eligible as a result of this Agreement or the Work for any pension, profit-sharing, insurance, or other retirementbenefits, employee fringe benefits, or any compensation (other than the specific Compensation called for by paragraph 4(a) hereof to which Consultant, only, may be entitled hereunder) from NYSE Euronext. NYSE Euronext shall not withhold from any amount payable under the Agreement any amount on account of federal, state or local income, FICA, unemployment, workers' compensation, disability or similar, tax or charge. Consultant shall be solely responsible for all tax reporting and payments and applicable state-mandated insurance obligations, including workers' compensation insurance, arising out of the performance of the Work. Nothing in this Agreement limits or affects any pension, profit-sharing, insurance, or other retirement benefits to which Consultant is or may be entitled as a result of Consultant's employment by NYSE Euronext on September 10, 2007.
Consultant warrants and represents that: (i) Consultant will hold himself out to the public as an independent contractor in the discipline for which he was engaged under the Agreement and/or any other discipline, and subject to Consultant's continuing obligations under the Agreement and General Release dated September 10, 2007 and this Agreement, may perform services in those disciplines as an independent contractor for business and companies other than NYSE Euronext; and (ii) Consultant may perform services in the discipline for which he is engaged hereunder or any other discipline, provided there is no conflict of interest with NYSE Euronext, as defined in paragraph 7 below.
Consultant agrees to indemnify and hold NYSE Euronext and its respective officers, directors, employees and agents harmless from and against any and all penalties, claims, damages or costs (including reasonable attorney's fees) which NYSE Euronext may incur by reason of Consultant's failure to comply with the provisions of this paragraph 5 or by reason of any breach by Consultant of any warranty or representation contained in this paragraph 5.
Confidentiality
During and after the term of the Agreement, Consultant shall not divulge to anyone, except NYSE Euronext and persons designated in writing by NYSE Euronext, any "Confidential Information" (as hereinafter defined) nor shall Consultant directly or indirectly use any Confidential Information for the benefit of Consultant or any third party or for any purpose other than to perform the Work.
"Confidential Information" means (i) any portion of the Work, drafts thereof, or communications with respect thereto; (ii) any business plans, financial information, compensation plans, regulatory information, inventions, marketing research and strategies, methods, designs, software, drawings, formulae, products, processes, compositions, data, code, trade secrets, business methods, know-how, intellectual property, business strategies, operating procedures or other information of NYSE Euronext, any "NYSE Euronext Affiliate" (which term means any partnership or joint venture of which NYSE Euronext is a part, or any subsidiary, parent or affiliated corporation of NYSE Euronext), or any company whose securities are traded on facilities of NYSE Euronext, obtained in connection with the performance of the Agreement or during Consultant's prior employment with NYSE Euronext; (iii) any personally identifiable information protected from disclosure under any law, rule or ordinance, (iv) any inf ormation identified by NYSE Euronext to Consultant as confidential, whether such information was created or existing during the term of the Agreement or during Consultant's prior employment with NYSE Euronext; (v) any information of NYSE Euronext or any NYSE Euronext Affiliate created or existing during or prior to the term of the Agreement, and which Consultant knows or reasonably should have known to be confidential; or (vi) any information of NYSE Euronext or any NYSE Euronext Affiliate created or existing during or prior to the term of the Agreement and of a type or character that a reasonable person would regard as confidential.
Confidential Information shall not include any information which (i) is or becomes publicly known through no breach of any confidentiality obligation by Consultant; or (ii) is approved for release by written authorization of NYSE Euronext.
In the event that Consultant or any Consultant Affiliate is requested pursuant to, or required by, applicable law, or regulation of any governmental entity, or legal process to disclose any Confidential Information, Consultant will notify NYSE Euronext promptly so that NYSE Euronext may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy, and Consultant shall cooperate fully with NYSE Euronext in protecting confidential information to the extent possible under applicable law or, in its sole discretion, waive compliance with the terms of the Agreement applicable to such disclosure. In the event that no such protective order or other remedy is obtained, or that NYSE Euronext does not waive compliance with the terms hereof applicable to such disclosure, NYSE Euronext nonetheless shall be deemed to consent to the disclosure of, and Consultant will furnish, only that portion of the Confidential Information which Consultant is legally required to disclose and Consultant agrees to exercise all reasonable effor ts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded the information so disclosed.
You represent that at the end of the Term of this Agreement, you will return to NYSE Euronext all property belonging to NYSE Euronext including but not limited to documents in any form, presentations, files, lists, computer, cell phone, beeper, keys, card access to the building and office floors, computer user name and password, disks and/or voicemail code.
Policy"), including, but not limited to any obligations incumbent upon Consultant as a former Section 16(b) executive.
The foregoing obligations are in addition to, and not in limitation of, any obligations of confidentiality or other obligations arising out of the former employment by NYSE Euronext of Consultant or any such obligations under NYSE Euronext's Officers' and Employees' Statement of Business Conduct and Ethics, and NYSE Euronext's Statement of Business Conduct and Ethics for Non-NYSE Euronext Personnel (the "Non-Employee Ethics
Non-Solicitation and Non-Competition
As provided in the Agreement and General Release dated September 10, 2007, Consultant agrees that for the period of time that he is acting as a Consultant to NYSE Euronext and for the 12-month period of time following the termination of his consultancy with NYSE Euronext, but in any event no earlier than September 10, 2009, he will not, without the prior written consent of the CEO of the NYSE Euronext, directly or indirectly:
own, control, manage, loan money to, represent, render any service or advice to or act as an officer, director, employee, agent, representative, partner or independent contractor of any securities exchange, "ECN," or other such entity whose principal business materially competes with the businesses of the NYSE Euronext as in effect prior to or during the consultancy ("Competitive Activities"); , , that the foregoing shall not prohibit him from passive ownership of securities in any publicly traded company that is engaged in any such business as long as he does not own more than five percent (5%) or more of any class of the equity securities of such company.
provided
however
Solicit, induce, influence, encourage, or attempt to solicit, induce, influence or encourage, either directly or indirectly, any person employed by NYSE Euronext to terminate his or her employment relationship with NYSE Euronext or hire or employ or engage any such person or otherwise interfere with any such person's employment by or association with NYSE Euronext;
Induce, influence, encourage, or attempt to induce, influence or encourage, either directly or indirectly, any third party to terminate such party's business relationship with the NYSE Euronext or otherwise interfere with any business or contractual relationship of NYSE Euronext; or
Take any other action reasonably intended to be detrimental to the relationship of NYSE Euronext with its employees, customers, vendors, or suppliers.
Serve as a board member on any board of directors of any company engaged in Competitive Activities.
In addition, Section 8 of your Employment Agreement with Archipelago Holdings, LLC dated as of December 19, 2001, and as subsequently amended ("Employment Agreement"), which provides for certain restrictive covenants to apply to you following your termination of employment are hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement.
Business Conduct and Ethics
Consultant acknowledges his engagement as a Consultant hereunder shall cause him to be subject to, and that he shall comply with, all of NYSE Euronext's policies, rules and procedures, including but not limited to the Non-Employee Ethics Policy.
Consultant warrants that Consultant now has no conflict of interest, and covenants that during the term of the Agreement Consultant will engage in no activity and will enter into no relationship which would constitute a conflict of interest, with respect to the performance of the Work or the relationship between NYSE Euronext and Consultant under the Agreement. Should Consultant become aware of such conflict of interest during the term of the Agreement, Consultant shall promptly notify NYSE Euronext thereof.
Consultant acknowledges his continuing obligations under the Agreement and General Release dated September 10, 2007, including but not limited to his obligations under paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 thereof.
Governing Law and Venue
Any dispute with regard to the enforcement of the Agreement or any matter relating to Consultant's Work pursuant to the Agreement, including but not limited to disputes relating to alleged torts or any violation of law other than the seeking of injunctive relief to preserve the status quo pending arbitration in accordance with applicable law, shall be exclusively resolved by a single arbitrator at an arbitration to be conducted in New York City before, and pursuant to the rules of, the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") with the arbitrator applying the substantive law of the State of New York. The AAA shall provide the parties hereto with lists for the selection of arbitrators composed entirely of arbitrators who are members of the National Academy of Arbitrators and who have prior experience in the arbitration of disputes between consultants and their clients or customers. The determination of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties hereto and judgment there in may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. Each party shall pay its own attorneys fees and disbursements and other costs of the arbitration.
Notices
All notices under the Agreement shall be in writing and sent by Express or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by recognized overnight courier, postage and other charges prepaid, and
(i) when intended for Consultant, shall be addressed to the Consultant's address and to the attention of the Consultant's contact person, or to such other address as Consultant shall from time to time designate by written notice to NYSE Euronext, and
(ii) when intended for NYSE Euronext, shall be addressed to:
Dale B. Bernstein, Executive Vice President
NYSE Euronext
11 Wall Street
New York, New York 10005
or to such other address as NYSE Euronext shall from time to time designate by written notice to Consultant.
Miscellaneous
Consultant may not assign any of Consultant's rights hereunder or delegate any of Consultant's duties, and any attempt to do so, without the prior written consent of NYSE Euronext, shall be void.
The Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, (i) Consultant and the legal representatives and permitted assigns of Consultant and (ii) NYSE Euronext and its successors and assigns.
The Agreement may not, in whole or in part, be modified or waived other than by a writing signed by the party against whom such modification or waiver is sought to be enforced.
A waiver of any provision hereof on any occasion shall not be deemed to be a waiver either of such provision on any other occasion or of any other provision hereof.
This Agreement sets forth the whole of the agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any other discussions, representations and agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof, except with respect to the Agreement and General Release dated September 10, 2007 and any other written agreements with continuing obligations, which shall continue in full force and effect and shall not be superseded.
Paragraph headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not be considered in the interpretation of the Agreement. The words "include", "includes," "including" and "e.g." shall not be construed as words of limitation, but shall be construed as to permit the inclusion of all other examples.
Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of the Agreement.
 
 
 


