FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20081215154054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 9, 2008, Euronext Lisbon, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NYSE Euronext, entered into a letter agreement with Miguel Athayde Marques to extend his original employment agreement for a period of 12 months, commencing on December 31, 2008, to be renewable thereafter for equal periods of 12 months, unless terminated pursuant to the employment agreement. All other terms and conditions in Mr. Marques' employment agreement, which is described more fully in the contract and is attached as Exhibit 10.63 to the Form S-4/A filed with the Commission on November 27, 2006, remain the same.
The foregoing description of the letter agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the letter agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Lisbon, 09 December, 2008
Dear Miguel:
Following the conversations held, this letter confirms the terms and conditions which will apply to your contract with Euronext Lisbon as from December 31, 2008. All conditions laid down in your contract with Euronext Lisbon, dated January 26, 2005, as modified from time to time, remain applicable unless otherwise amended by the terms and conditions outlined below. All conditions laid down in Euronext's internal policies as modified or re-enacted from time to time and any subordinate regulation made under the Euronext policies' provision at any time and from time to time will apply unless otherwise amended in this letter.
The terms and conditions are as follows:
your contract is hereby extended for a period of 12 (twelve) months, commencing on December 31, 2008, and shall be renewable thereafter for equal periods of 12 (twelve) months, unless terminated as set forth in its sections 5 and 7.
Term:
We look forward to receiving your agreement to the contents of this letter and to your continuing support and contribution in the year(s) ahead.
Yours sincerely,
I hereby declare my agreement to the entire contents of this letter and accordingly accept the terms and conditions outlined above.
Lisbon, 09 December 2008
 
 
 
 


