FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20080520165200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) At the annual meeting of stockholders of NYSE Euronext (the "Company") on May 15, 2008, the Company's stockholders approved the Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), which amends and restates the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. The following summary is of the principal amendments to the Plan and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Plan. The Plan, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
The Plan, as amended and restated, among other things, increases the number of shares of common stock of the Company authorized for issuance under the Plan from 7,536,232 to 9,000,000 shares and is designed to comply with the "performance-based compensation" exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In addition, a performance-based cash award program designed to meet the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code has been added to the Plan. Because performance-based cash awards may be made, the Plan has been renamed the "NYSE Euronext Omnibus Incentive Plan." The Board approved the amended and restated Plan effective as of May 15, 2008, subject to stockholder approval.
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
On May 15, 2008, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing the decision of the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeals regarding the statutory buy-out of the remaining minority Euronext shareholders holding approximately 2% of the shares of Euronext N.V.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. NYSE Euronext does not intend for this Item 8.01 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this Plan is to enhance the profitability and value of the Company for the benefit of its stockholders by enabling the Company to offer Eligible Employees, Consultants and Non-Employee Directors stock-based and cash incentives in the Company to attract, retain and reward such individuals and strengthen the mutuality of interests between such individuals and the Company's stockholders.
The Plan, which was originally adopted by the Company and approved by its stockholders effective March 8, 2006, is hereby amended and restated effective May 15, 2008, subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders.
For purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
means each of the following: (a) any Subsidiary; (b) any Parent; (c) any corporation, trade or business (including, without limitation, a partnership or limited liability company) which is directly or indirectly controlled 50% or more (whether by ownership of stock, assets or an equivalent ownership interest or voting interest) by the Company; (d) any corporation, trade or business (including, without limitation, a partnership or limited liability company) which directly or indirectly controls 50% or more (whether by ownership of stock, assets or an equivalent ownership interest or voting interest) of the Company; and (e) any other entity in which the Company or any of its Affiliates has a material equity interest and which is designated as an "Affiliate" by resolution of the Committee; provided that the Common Stock subject to any Award constitutes "service recipient" stock for purposes of Section 409A of the Code or otherwise does not subject the Award to Section 409A of the Code.
2.1
""
Affiliate
means any Award under the Plan of any Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Other Stock-Based Award, provided that such Other Stock-Based Award is based on the appreciation in value of a share of Common Stock in excess of an amount equal to at least the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date such Other Stock-Based Award is granted.
2.2
""
Appreciation Award
means any award under this Plan of any Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Performance ShareOther Stock-Based Award, or Performance-Based Cash Award. All Awards shall be confirmed by, and subject to the terms of, a written agreement executed by the Company and the Participant.
2.3
""
Award
,
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.4
""
Board
means with respect to a Participant's Termination of Employment or Termination of Consultancy, the following: (a) in the case where there is no employment agreement, consulting agreement, change in control agreement or similar agreement in effect between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant at the time of the grant of the Award (or where there is such an agreement but it does not define "cause" (or words of like import)), termination due to: (i) a Participant's conviction of, or plea of guilty or to, a felony; (ii) perpetration by a Participant of an illegal act, dishonesty, or fraud which could cause significant economic injury to the Company; (iii) a Participant's insubordination, refusal to perform his or her duties or responsibilities for any reason other than illness or incapacity or materially unsatisfactory performance of his or her duties for the Company; (iv) continuing willful and deliberate failure by the Participant to perform the Participant's duties in any material respect, provided that the Participant is given notice and an opportunity to effectuate a cure as determined by the Committee; or (v) a Participant's willful misconduct with regard to the Company that could have a material adverse effect on the Company; or (b) in the case where there is an employment agreement, consulting agreement, change in control agreement or similar agreement in effect between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant at the time of the grant of the Award that defines "cause" (or words of like import), "cause" as defined under such agreement; provided, however, that with regard to any agreement under which the definition of "cause" only applies on occurrence of a change in control, such definition of "cause" shall not apply until a change in control actually takes place and then only with regard to a termination thereafter. With respect to a Participant's Termination of Directorship, "cause" means an act or failure to act that constitutes cause for removal of a director under the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Company or applicable Delaware law.
2.5
""
Cause
nolo contendere
has the meaning set forth in Section 13.2.
2.6
""
Change in Control
has the meaning set forth in Section 13.1.
2.7
""
Change in Control Price
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any reference to any section of the Code shall also be a reference to any successor provision and any Treasury Regulation promulgated thereunder.
2.8
""
Code
means: (a) with respect to the application of this Plan to Eligible Employees and Consultants, a committee or subcommittee of the Board appointed from time to time by the Board, which committee or subcommittee shall consist of two or more non-employee directors, each of whom shall be (i) a "non-employee director" as defined in Rule 16b-3, (ii) to the extent required Section 162(m) of the Code, an "outside director" as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code; and (iii) an "independent director" as defined under Section 303A.02 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual or such other applicable stock exchange rule and (b) with respect to the application of this Plan to Non-Employee Directors,
2.9
""
Committee
 
(i) the Board or (ii) a committee or subcommittee (which may differ from the committee or subcommittee established for the grant of Awards to employees) comprised of two or more non-employee directors each of whom qualify as a "non-employee director" as defined in Rule 16b-3 and an "independent director" as defined under Section 303A.02 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. To the extent that no Committee exists that has the authority to administer this Plan, the functions of the Committee shall be exercised by the Board. If for any reason the appointed Committee does not meet the requirements of Rule 16b-3 or Section 162(m) of the Code, such noncompliance shall not affect the validity of Awards, grants, interpretations or other actions of the Committee.
means the Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the Company.
2.10
""
Common Stock
means NYSE Euronext, a Delaware corporation, and its successors by operation of law.
2.11
""
Company
means any natural person who provides bona fide consulting or advisory services to the Company or its Affiliates pursuant to a written agreement, which services are not in connection with the offer and sale of securities in a capital raising transaction.
2.12
""
Consultant
has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(a).
2.13
""
Corporate Transaction
means: (a) the disclosure to anyone outside the Company or its Affiliates, or the use in any manner other than in the furtherance of the Company's or its Affiliate's business, without written authorization from the Company, of any confidential information or proprietary information, relating to the business of the Company or its Affiliates that is acquired by a Participant prior to the Participant's Termination; (b) activity while employed or performing services that results, or if known could result, in the Participant's Termination that is classified by the Company as a termination for Cause; (c) the Participant's Disparagement, or inducement of others to do so, of the Company or its Affiliates or their past and present officers, directors, employees or products; or (d) material breach of any agreement between the Participant and the Company or an Affiliate (including, without limitation, any employment agreement or noncompetition or nonsolicitation agreement). Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at grant, Detrimental Activity shall not be deemed to occur after the end of the one-year period following the Participant's Termination. For purposes of subsections (a), (c) and (d) above, the Chief Executive Officer and the General Counsel of the Company shall each have authority to provide the Participant with written authorization to engage in the activities contemplated thereby and no other person shall have authority to provide the Participant with such authorization.
2.14
""
Detrimental Activity
means with respect to a Participant's Termination, a permanent and total disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code. A Disability shall only be deemed to occur at the time of the determination by the Committee of the Disability. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for Awards that are subject to Section 409A of the Code, Disability shall mean that a Participant is disabled under Section 409A(a)(2)(C)(i) or (ii) of the Code.
2.15
""
Disability
 
means making comments or statements to the press, the Company's or its Affiliates' employees, consultants or any individual or entity with whom the Company or its Affiliates has a business relationship which could reasonably be expected to adversely affect in any manner: (a) the conduct of the business of the Company or its Affiliates (including, without limitation, any products or business plans or prospects); or (b) the business reputation of the Company or its Affiliates, or any of their products, or their past or present officers, directors or employees.
2.16
""
Disparagement
means the effective date of this Plan as defined in Article XVII.
2.17
""
Effective Date
means each employee of the Company or an Affiliate.
2.18
""
Eligible Employees
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Any references to any section of the Exchange Act shall also be a reference to any successor provision.
2.19
""
Exchange Act
means, unless otherwise required by any applicable provision of the Code or any regulations issued thereunder, as of any date and except as provided below, the last sales price reported for the Common Stock on the applicable date: (a) as reported on the principal national securities exchange in the United States on which it is then traded; or (b) if not traded on any such national securities exchange, as quoted on an automated quotation system sponsored by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority or if the Common Stock shall not have been reported or quoted on such date, on the first day prior thereto on which the Common Stock was reported or quoted. For purposes of the grant of any Award, the applicable date shall be the trading day immediately prior to the date on which the Award is granted. For purposes of the exercise of any Award, the applicable date shall be the date a notice of exercise is received by the Committee or, if not a day on which the applicable market is open, the next day that it is open.
2.20
""
Fair Market Value
means "family member" as defined in Section A.1.(5) of the general instructions of Form S-8, as may be amended from time to time.
2.21
""
Family Member
means any Stock Option awarded to an Eligible Employee of the Company, its Subsidiaries and its Parent (if any) under this Plan intended to be and designated as an "Incentive Stock Option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
2.22
""
Incentive Stock Option
means the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 20, 2005, as amended and restated as of July 20, 2005 and as amended as of October 20, 2005 and November 2, 2005, by and among the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Archipelago Holdings, Inc., the Company, NYSE Merger Sub LLC, NYSE Merger Corporation Sub, Inc. and Archipelago Merger Sub, Inc.
2.23
""
Merger Agreement
means the consummation of the merger transactions contemplated in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 20, 2005, as amended and restated as of July 20, 2005 and as amended as of October 20, 2005 and November 2, 2005, by and among the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Archipelago Holdings, Inc., the Company, NYSE Merger Sub LLC, NYSE Merger Corporation Sub, Inc. and Archipelago Merger Sub,
2.24
""
Merger Transaction
 
Inc., pursuant to which, among other things, the NYSE and Archipelago Holdings, Inc. each agreed to combine and become wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company.
means the date described in Section 10.3(a) of the Plan.
2.25
""
Merger Transaction Grant Date
means the restricted stock units granted to Eligible Employees on the terms and conditions set forth in Section 10.3 hereof.
2.26
""
Merger Transaction RSUs
means a director of the Company who is not an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate.
2.27
""
Non-Employee Director
means any Stock Option awarded under this Plan that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
2.28
""
Non-Qualified Stock Option
means an Award under Article X of this Plan that is valued in whole or in part by reference to, or is payable in or otherwise based on, Common Stock, including, without limitation, a restricted stock unit, a Merger Transaction RSU, or an Award valued by reference to an Affiliate.
2.29
""
Other Stock-Based Award
means any parent corporation of the Company within the meaning of Section 424(e) of the Code.
2.30
""
Parent
means an Eligible Employee, Non-Employee Director or Consultant to whom an Award has been granted pursuant to this Plan.
2.31
""
Participant
means a cash Award under Article XI of this Plan that is payable or otherwise based on the attainment of certain pre-established performance goals during a Performance Period.
2.32
""
Performance-Based Cash Award
has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.
2.33
""
Performance Period
means an Award made pursuant to Article IX of this Plan of the right to receive Common Stock or cash of an equivalent value at the end of a specified Performance Period.
2.34
""
Performance Share
means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, firm, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, incorporated organization, governmental or regulatory or other entity.
2.35
""
Person
means this NYSE Euronext Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
2.36
""
Plan
has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
2.37
""
Reference Stock Option
means the first date on which any class of common equity securities of the Company is required to be registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.
2.38
""
Registration Date
 
means an Award of shares of Common Stock under this Plan that is subject to restrictions under Article VIII.
2.39
""
Restricted Stock
has the meaning set forth in Section 8.3(a).
2.40 ""
Restriction Period
means a voluntary Termination of Employment at or after age 55, except that in no event shall Retirement result from the involuntary termination of a Participant's employment by the Company or an Affiliate for any reason whether for Cause or without Cause. With respect to a Participant's Termination of Directorship, Retirement means the failure to stand for reelection or the failure to be reelected on or after the Participant's attainment of age 65.
2.41
""
Retirement
means Rule 16b-3 under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act as then in effect or any successor provision.
2.42
""
Rule 16b-3
means the exception for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and any applicable Treasury regulations thereunder.
2.43
""
Section 162(m) of the Code
means the nonqualified deferred compensation rules under Section 409A of the Code and any applicable Treasury regulations thereunder.
2.44
""
Section 409A of the Code
means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Any reference to any section of the Securities Act shall also be a reference to any successor provision.
2.45
""
Securities Act
means an involuntary Termination of Employment without Cause due to organizational changes and reduction in personnel implemented by the Employer through the elimination or modification of job function and reduction in headcount or such other involuntary Termination of Employment without Cause for which severance is payable by the Employer.
2.46
""
Severance Eligible Termination
means the right pursuant to an Award granted under Article VII. A Tandem Stock Appreciation Right shall mean the right to surrender to the Company all (or a portion) of a Stock Option in exchange for a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the difference between (a) the Fair Market Value on the date such Stock Option (or such portion thereof) is surrendered, of the Common Stock covered by such Stock Option (or such portion thereof), and (b) the aggregate exercise price of such Stock Option (or such portion thereof). A Non-Tandem Stock Appreciation Right shall mean the right to receive a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the difference between (i) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date such right is exercised, and (ii) the aggregate exercise price of such right, otherwise than on surrender of a Stock Option.
2.47
""
Stock Appreciation Right
or means any option to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to Article VI.
2.48
""
Stock Option
""
Option
means any subsidiary corporation of the Company within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code.
2.49
""
Subsidiary
 
means a person owning stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company, its Subsidiaries or its Parent.
2.50
""
Ten Percent Stockholder
means a Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable.
2.51
""
Termination
means: (a) that the Consultant is no longer acting as a consultant to the Company or an Affiliate; or (b) when an entity which is retaining a Participant as a Consultant ceases to be an Affiliate unless the Participant otherwise is, or thereupon becomes, a Consultant to the Company or another Affiliate at the time the entity ceases to be an Affiliate. In the event that a Consultant becomes an Eligible Employee or a Non-Employee Director upon the termination of his or her consultancy, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, no Termination of Consultancy shall be deemed to occur until such time as such Consultant is no longer a Consultant, an Eligible Employee or a Non-Employee Director. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, otherwise define Termination of Consultancy in the Award agreement or, if no rights of a Participant are reduced, may otherwise define Termination of Consultancy thereafter.
2.52
""
Termination of Consultancy
means that the Non-Employee Director has ceased to be a director of the Company; except that if a Non-Employee Director becomes an Eligible Employee or a Consultant upon the termination of his or her directorship, his or her ceasing to be a director of the Company shall not be treated as a Termination of Directorship unless and until the Participant has a Termination of Employment or Termination of Consultancy, as the case may be.
2.53
""
Termination of Directorship
means: (a) a termination of employment (for reasons other than a military or personal leave of absence granted by the Company) of a Participant from the Company and its Affiliates; or (b) when an entity which is employing a Participant ceases to be an Affiliate, unless the Participant otherwise is, or thereupon becomes, employed by the Company or another Affiliate at the time the entity ceases to be an Affiliate. In the event that an Eligible Employee becomes a Consultant or a Non-Employee Director upon the termination of his or her employment, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, no Termination of Employment shall be deemed to occur until such time as such Eligible Employee is no longer an Eligible Employee, or a Consultant or a Non-Employee Director. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, otherwise define Termination of Employment in the Award agreement or, if no rights of a Participant are reduced, may otherwise define Termination of Employment thereafter.
2.54
""
Termination of Employment
means: (a) when used as a noun, any direct or indirect transfer, sale, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance or other disposition (including the issuance of equity in a Person), whether for value or no value and whether voluntary or involuntary (including by operation of law), and (b) when used as a verb, to directly or indirectly transfer, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, charge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of (including the issuance of equity in a Person) whether for value or for no value and whether voluntarily or involuntarily (including by operation of law). "Transferred" and "Transferable" shall have a correlative meaning.
2.55 ""
Transfer
 
The Plan shall be administered and interpreted by the Committee.
3.1
.
The Committee
. The Committee shall have full authority to grant, pursuant to the terms of this Plan, to Eligible Employees, Consultants and Non-Employee Directors (i) Stock Options, (ii) Stock Appreciation Rights, (iii) Restricted Stock, (iv) Performance Shares; (v) Other Stock-Based Awards; and (vi) Performance-Based Cash Awards, although Non-Employee Directors are not eligible to receive Performance-Based Cash Awards. In particular, the Committee shall have the authority:
3.2
Grants of Awards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. Subject to Article XIV hereof, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, have the authority to adopt, alter and repeal such administrative rules, guidelines and practices governing this Plan and perform all acts, including the delegation of its responsibilities (to the extent permitted by applicable law and applicable stock exchange rules), as it shall, from time to time, deem advisable; to construe and interpret the terms and provisions of this Plan and any Award issued under this Plan (and any agreements relating thereto); and to otherwise supervise the administration of this Plan. The Committee may authorize the Chief Executive Officer of the Company to grant Awards, other than Awards intended to be "performance-based" under Section 162(m) of the Code, to Eligible Employees, other than employees subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, subject to applicable law and such limitations as the Committee may determine from time to time in its discretion. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in this Plan or in any agreement relating thereto in the manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary to effectuate the purpose and intent of this Plan. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, adopt special guidelines and provisions for persons who are residing in or employed in, or subject to, the taxes of, any domestic or foreign jurisdictions to comply with applicable tax and securities laws of such domestic or foreign jurisdictions. This Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 and with respect to Awards intended to be "performance-based," the applicable provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code and this Plan shall be limited, construed and interpreted in a manner so as to comply therewith.
3.3
Guidelines
. Any decision, interpretation or other action made or taken in good faith by or at the direction of the Company, the Board or the Committee (or any of its
3.4
Decisions Final
 
members) arising out of or in connection with this Plan shall be within the absolute discretion of all and each of them, as the case may be, and shall be final, binding and conclusive on the Company and all employees and Participants and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
. If the Committee is appointed, the Board shall designate one of the members of the Committee as chairman and the Committee shall hold meetings, subject to the By-Laws of the Company, at such times and places as it shall deem advisable, including, without limitation, by telephone conference or by written consent to the extent permitted by applicable law. A majority of the Committee members shall constitute a quorum. All determinations of the Committee shall be made by a majority of its members. Any decision or determination reduced to writing and signed by all the Committee members in accordance with the By-Laws of the Company, shall be fully effective as if it had been made by a vote at a meeting duly called and held. The Committee shall keep minutes of its meetings and shall make such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it shall deem advisable.
3.5
Procedures
.
3.6
Designation of Consultants/Liability
 
 
. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law and the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Company and to the extent not covered by insurance directly insuring such person, each officer or employee of the Company or any Affiliate and member or former member of the Committee or the Board shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against any cost or expense (including reasonable fees of counsel reasonably acceptable to the Committee) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the approval of the Committee), and advanced amounts necessary to pay the foregoing at the earliest time and to the fullest extent permitted, arising out of any act or
3.7
Indemnification
 
omission to act in connection with the administration of this Plan, except to the extent arising out of such officer's, employee's, member's or former member's fraud. Such indemnification shall be in addition to any rights of indemnification the officers, employees, directors or members or former officers, directors or members may have under applicable law or under the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of the Company or any Affiliate. Notwithstanding anything else herein, this indemnification will not apply to the actions or determinations made by an individual with regard to Awards granted to him or her under this Plan.
4.1
.
Shares
 
 
 
.
4.2
Changes
 
 
 
 
 
 
. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, if authorized but previously unissued shares of Common Stock are issued under this Plan, such shares shall not be issued for a consideration that is less than as permitted under applicable law.
4.3
Minimum Purchase Price
 
. All Eligible Employees, Consultants, Non-Employee Directors and prospective employees and consultants are eligible to be granted Awards, subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan. Eligibility for the grant of Awards and actual participation in this Plan shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
5.1
General Eligibility
. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, only Eligible Employees of the Company, its Subsidiaries and its Parent (if any) are eligible to be granted Incentive Stock Options under this Plan. Eligibility for the grant of an Incentive Stock Option and actual participation in this Plan shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
5.2
Incentive Stock Options
. The vesting and exercise of Awards granted to a prospective employee or consultant are conditioned upon such individual actually becoming an Eligible Employee or Consultant.
5.3
General Requirement
Unless the Board determines otherwise, all Awards granted under the Plan shall be subject to the special rules set forth in Article XX hereof which govern the treatment of Awards held by Participants who transfer to employment with NYSE Regulation, Inc.
5.4
Special Rules  NYSE Regulation, Inc
.
. Stock Options may be granted alone or in addition to other Awards granted under this Plan. Each Stock Option granted under this Plan shall be of one of two types: (a) an Incentive Stock Option or (b) a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
6.1
Options
. The Committee shall, in its sole discretion, have the authority to grant to any Eligible Employee (subject to Section 5.2) Incentive Stock Options, Non-Qualified Stock Options, or both types of Stock Options. The Committee shall, in its sole discretion, have the authority to grant Non-Qualified Stock Options to any Consultant or Non-Employee Director. To the extent that any Stock Option does not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option (whether because of its provisions or the time or manner of its exercise or otherwise), such Stock Option or the portion thereof which does not qualify shall constitute a separate Non-Qualified Stock Option.
6.2
Grants
. Options granted under this Plan shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and shall be in such form and contain such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of this Plan, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall deem desirable:
6.3
Terms of Options
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in conjunction with all or part of any Stock Option (a "Reference Stock Option") granted under this Plan ("Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights"). In the case of a Non-Qualified Stock Option, such rights may be granted either at or after the time of the grant of such Reference Stock Option. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, such rights may be granted only at the time of the grant of such Reference Stock Option.
7.1
Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights
 
. Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights granted hereunder shall be subject to such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan, as shall be determined from time to time by the Committee in its sole discretion, and the following:
7.2
Terms and Conditions of Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. Non-Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights may also be granted without reference to any Stock Options granted under this Plan.
7.3
Non-Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights
. Non-Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights granted hereunder shall be subject to such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan, as shall be determined from time to time by the Committee in its sole discretion, and the following:
7.4
Terms and Conditions of Non-Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Tandem and Non-Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights either as a general Stock Appreciation Right or as a Limited Stock Appreciation Right. Limited Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised only upon the occurrence of a Change in Control or such other event as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, designate at the time of grant or thereafter. Upon the exercise of Limited Stock Appreciation Rights, except as otherwise provided in an Award agreement, the Participant shall receive in cash or Common Stock, as determined by the Committee, an amount equal to the amount (a) set forth in Section 7.2(e) with respect to Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights, or (b) set forth in Section 7.4(e) with respect to Non-Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights, as applicable.
7.5
Limited Stock Appreciation Rights
 
. Shares of Restricted Stock may be issued either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. The Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine the Eligible Employees, Consultants and Non-Employee Directors, to whom, and the time or times at which, grants of Restricted Stock shall be made, the number of shares to be awarded, the price (if any) to be paid by the Participant (subject to Section 8.2), the time or times within which such Awards may be subject to forfeiture, the vesting schedule and rights to acceleration thereof, and all other terms and conditions of the Awards. The Committee may condition the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock upon the attainment of specified performance targets (including, the Performance Goals specified in Exhibit A attached hereto) or such other factors as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion, including to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code.
8.1
Awards of Restricted Stock
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at grant, each Award of Restricted Stock shall provide that in the event the Participant engages in Detrimental Activity prior to, or during the one-year period after, any vesting of Restricted Stock, the Committee may direct that all unvested Restricted Stock shall be immediately forfeited to the Company and that the Participant shall pay over to the Company an amount equal to the Fair Market Value at the time of vesting of any Restricted Stock which had vested in the period referred to above.
. Eligible Employees, Consultants and Non-Employee Directors selected to receive Restricted Stock shall not have any rights with respect to such Award, unless and until such Participant has delivered a fully executed copy of the agreement evidencing the Award to the Company and has otherwise complied with the applicable terms and conditions of such Award. Further, such Award shall be subject to the following conditions:
8.2
Awards and Certificates
 
 
 
"The anticipation, alienation, attachment, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge of the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) of the NYSE Euronext (the "Company") Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and an Agreement entered into between the registered owner and the Company evidencing the award under the Plan. Copies of such Plan and Agreement are on file at the principal office of the Company."
 
. The shares of Restricted Stock awarded pursuant to this Plan shall be subject to the following restrictions and conditions:
8.3
Restrictions and Conditions
 
. If the grant of shares of Restricted Stock or the lapse of restrictions is based on the attainment of Performance Goals, the Committee shall establish the Performance Goals and the applicable vesting percentage of the Restricted Stock Award applicable to each Participant or class of Participants in writing prior to the beginning of the applicable fiscal year or at such later date as otherwise determined by the Committee and while the outcome of the Performance Goals are substantially uncertain. Such Performance Goals may incorporate provisions for disregarding (or adjusting for) changes in accounting methods, corporate transactions (including, without limitation, dispositions and acquisitions) and other similar type events or
(ii) Objective Performance Goals, Formulae or Standards
 
circumstances. With regard to a Restricted Stock Award that is intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code, to the extent any such provision would create impermissible discretion under Section 162(m) of the Code or otherwise violate Section 162(m) of the Code, such provision shall be of no force or effect. The applicable Performance Goals shall be based on one or more of the performance criteria set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
 
 
 
. Performance Shares may be awarded either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under this Plan. The Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine the Eligible Employees, Consultants and Non-Employee Directors, to whom, and the time or times at which, Performance Shares shall be awarded, the number of Performance Shares to be awarded to any person, the duration of the period (the "Performance Period") during which, and the conditions under which, receipt of the Shares will be deferred, and the other terms and conditions of the Award in addition to those set forth in Section 9.2.
9.1
Award of Performance Shares
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at grant, each Award of Performance Shares shall provide that in the event the Participant engages in Detrimental Activity prior to, or during the one-year period after, any vesting of Performance Shares, the Committee may direct (at any time within one year thereafter) that all unvested Performance Shares shall be
 
immediately forfeited to the Company and that the Participant shall pay over to the Company an amount equal to any gain the Participant realized from any Performance Shares which had vested in the period referred to above.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Committee shall condition the right to payment of any Performance Share upon the attainment of objective performance goals established pursuant to Section 9.2(c) below.
. Performance Shares awarded pursuant to this Article IX shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
9.2
Terms and Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. The Committee, in its sole discretion, is authorized to grant to Eligible Employees, Consultants and Non-Employee Directors Other Stock-Based Awards that are payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to shares of Common Stock, including but not limited to, shares of Common Stock awarded purely as a bonus and not subject to any restrictions or conditions, shares of Common Stock in payment of the amounts due under an incentive or performance plan sponsored or maintained by the Company or an Affiliate, performance units, dividend equivalent units, stock equivalent units, restricted stock units and deferred stock units. To the extent permitted by law, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit Eligible Employees and/or Non-Employee Directors to defer all or a portion of their cash compensation in the form of Other Stock-Based Awards granted under this Plan, subject to the terms and conditions of any deferred compensation arrangement established by the Company, which shall be in a manner intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code. Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted either alone or in addition to or in tandem with other Awards granted under the Plan.
10.1
Other Awards
Subject to the provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, have authority to determine the Eligible Employees, Consultants and Non-Employee Directors to whom, and the time or times at which, such Awards shall be made, the number of shares of Common Stock to be awarded pursuant to such Awards, and all other conditions of the Awards. The Committee may also provide for the grant of Common Stock under such Awards upon the completion of a specified performance period.
The Committee may condition the grant or vesting of Other Stock-Based Awards upon the attainment of specified Performance Goals set forth on Exhibit A as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion; provided that to the extent that such Other Stock-Based Awards
 
are intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall establish the objective Performance Goals for the vesting of such Other Stock-Based Awards based on a performance period applicable to each Participant or class of Participants in writing prior to the beginning of the applicable performance period or at such later date as permitted under Section 162(m) of the Code and while the outcome of the Performance Goals are substantially uncertain. Such Performance Goals may incorporate, if and only to the extent permitted under Section 162(m) of the Code, provisions for disregarding (or adjusting for) changes in accounting methods, corporate transactions (including, without limitation, dispositions and acquisitions) and other similar type events or circumstances. To the extent any such provision would create impermissible discretion under Section 162(m) of the Code or otherwise violate Section 162(m) of the Code, such provision shall be of no force or effect. The applicable Performance Goals shall be based on one or more of the performance criteria set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
. Other Stock-Based Awards made pursuant to this Article X shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
10.2
Terms and Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
.
10.3
Grant of Restricted Stock Units in Connection with the Merger Transaction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. Performance-Based Cash Awards may be granted either alone or in addition to or in tandem with Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, or Restricted Stock. Subject to the provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, have authority to determine the Eligible Employees and Consultants to whom, and the time or times at which, such Awards shall be made, the dollar amount to be awarded pursuant to such Awards, and all other conditions of the Awards. The Committee may also provide for the payment of dollar amount under such Awards upon the completion of a specified Performance Period.
11.1
Performance-Based Cash Awards
For each Participant, the Committee may specify a targeted performance award. The individual target award may be expressed, at the Committee's discretion, as a fixed dollar amount, a percentage of base pay or total pay (excluding payments made under the Plan), or an amount determined pursuant to an objective formula or standard. Establishment of an individual target award for a Participant for a calendar year shall not imply or require that the same level individual target award (if any such award is established by the Committee for the relevant Participant) be set for any subsequent calendar year. At the time the Performance Goals are established, the Committee shall prescribe a formula to determine the percentages (which may be greater than 100%) of the individual target award which may be payable based upon the degree of attainment of the Performance Goals during the calendar year. Notwithstanding anything else herein, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, elect to pay a Participant an amount that is less than the Participant's individual target award (or attained percentage thereof) regardless of the degree of attainment of the Performance Goals; provided that no such discretion to reduce an Award earned based on achievement of the applicable Performance Goals shall be permitted for the calendar year in which a Change in Control of the Company occurs, or during such calendar year with regard to the prior calendar year if the
 
Awards for the prior calendar year have not been made by the time of the Change in Control of the Company, with regard to individuals who were Participants at the time of the Change in Control of the Company.
. Performance-Based Awards made pursuant to this Article XI shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
11.2
Terms and Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
. A Non-Employee Director shall be eligible to receive Awards under the Plan in accordance with its terms, including those set forth in this Article XII and such other terms and conditions as may be established by the Board consistent with the terms of the Plan and set forth in an Award agreement at grant or thereafter.
12.1
Discretionary Awards to Non-Employee Directors
. All Awards granted to a Non-Employee Director and not previously vested or exercisable shall become fully vested and exercisable upon such director's death or, in the case of all Awards other than Restricted Stock, the Non-Employee Director's Retirement, and all Awards granted to Non-Employee Directors and not previously vested or exercisable shall become fully vested and exercisable immediately upon a Change in Control (as defined in Section 13.2).
12.2
Acceleration of Exercisability
.
12.3
Changes
 
 
 
. In the event of a Change in Control of the Company and except as otherwise provided by the Committee in any Award agreement, a Participant's unvested Award shall not vest and a Participant's Award shall be treated in accordance with one of the following methods determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion:
13.1
Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to occur following any transaction if:
13.2
Change in Control
 
 
 
 
 
provided, however, that a Change in Control shall not occur for purposes of the Plan unless it constitutes a "change in control" for purposes of Section 409A of the Code; provided, further, however, that the foregoing proviso shall not apply to an Award that is granted after May 15, 2008 unless the Award is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and payment under the Award is triggered by a Change in Control.
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Board or the Committee may at any time, and from time to time, amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of this Plan (including any amendment deemed necessary to ensure that the Company may comply with any regulatory requirement referred to in Article XVI), or suspend or terminate it entirely, retroactively or otherwise; provided, however, that, unless otherwise required by law or specifically provided herein, the rights of a Participant with respect to Awards granted prior to such amendment, suspension or termination, may not be impaired without the consent of such Participant and, provided further, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, to the extent required by the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3, or Section 162(m) of the Code, pursuant to the requirements of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, or, to the extent applicable to Incentive Stock Options, Section 422 of the Code, no amendment may be made which would:
14.1
Termination or Amendment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee may amend the terms of any Award theretofore granted, prospectively or retroactively, but, subject to Article IV above or as otherwise specifically provided herein, no such amendment or other action by the Committee shall impair the rights of any holder without the holder's consent.
. This Plan is an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments as to which a Participant has a fixed and vested interest but that are not yet made to a Participant by the Company, nothing contained herein shall give any such Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of the Company.
15.1
Unfunded Status of Plan
 
. The Committee may require each person receiving shares of Common Stock pursuant to a Stock Option or other Award under the Plan to represent to and agree with the Company in writing that the Participant is acquiring the shares without a view to distribution thereof. In addition to any legend required by this Plan, the certificates for such shares may include any legend that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on Transfer.
16.1
Legend
All certificates for shares of Common Stock delivered under the Plan shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which the Common Stock is then listed or any national securities exchange system upon whose system the Common Stock is then quoted, any applicable Federal or state securities law, and any applicable corporate law, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
. Nothing contained in this Plan shall prevent the Board from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements, subject to stockholder approval if such approval is required; and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
16.2
Other Plans
. Neither this Plan nor the grant of any Option or other Award hereunder shall give any Participant or other employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director any right with respect to continuance of employment, consultancy or directorship by the Company or any Affiliate, nor shall they be a limitation in any way on the right of the Company or any Affiliate by which an employee is employed or a Consultant or Non-Employee Director is retained to terminate his or her employment, consultancy or directorship at any time.
16.3
No Right to Employment/Directorship/Consultancy
. The Company shall have the right to deduct from any payment to be made pursuant to this Plan, or to otherwise require, prior to the issuance or delivery of any shares of Common Stock or the payment of any cash hereunder, payment by the Participant of, any Federal, state or local taxes required by law to be withheld. Upon the vesting of Restricted Stock (or other Award that is taxable upon vesting), or upon making an election under Section 83(b) of the Code, a Participant shall pay all required withholding to the Company. Any statutorily required withholding obligation with regard to any Participant may be satisfied, subject to the prior consent of the Committee, by reducing the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable or by delivering shares of Common Stock already owned. Any fraction of a share of Common Stock required to satisfy such tax obligations shall be disregarded and the amount due shall be paid instead in cash by the Participant.
16.4
Withholding of Taxes
 
. No Award or other benefit payable under this Plan shall, except as otherwise specifically provided by law or permitted by the Committee, be Transferable in any manner, and any attempt to Transfer any such benefit shall be void, and any such benefit shall not in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any person who shall be entitled to such benefit, nor shall it be subject to attachment or legal process for or against such person.
16.5
No Assignment of Benefits
.
16.6
Listing and Other Conditions
 
 
 
 
. This Plan and actions taken in connection herewith shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (regardless of the law that might otherwise govern under applicable Delaware principles of conflict of laws).
16.7
Governing Law
 
. Wherever any words are used in this Plan in the masculine gender they shall be construed as though they were also used in the feminine gender in all cases where they would so apply, and wherever any words are used herein in the singular form they shall be construed as though they were also used in the plural form in all cases where they would so apply.
16.8
Construction
. No Award granted or paid out under this Plan shall be deemed compensation for purposes of computing benefits under any retirement plan of the Company or its Affiliates nor affect any benefits under any other benefit plan now or subsequently in effect under which the availability or amount of benefits is related to the level of compensation.
16.9
Other Benefits
. The Company shall bear all expenses associated with administering this Plan, including expenses of issuing Common Stock pursuant to any Awards hereunder.
16.10
Costs
. The provisions of Awards need not be the same with respect to each Participant, and such Awards to individual Participants need not be the same in subsequent years.
16.11
No Right to Same Benefits
The Committee may in its sole discretion require the transferee of a Participant to supply it with written notice of the Participant's death or Disability and to supply it with a copy of the will (in the case of the Participant's death) or such other evidence as the Committee deems necessary to establish the validity of the transfer of an Award. The Committee may, in its discretion, also require that the agreement of the transferee to be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan.
16.12
.
Death/Disability
. All elections and transactions under this Plan by persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act involving shares of Common Stock are intended to comply with any applicable exemptive condition under Rule 16b-3. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, establish and adopt written administrative guidelines, designed to facilitate compliance with Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, as it may deem necessary or proper for the administration and operation of this Plan and the transaction of business thereunder.
16.13
Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act
. Awards under the Plan are intended to comply with, or be exempt from, the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code and shall be limited, construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. Although the Company does not guarantee any particular tax treatment, to the extent that any Award is subject to Section 409A of the Code, it shall be paid in a manner that is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code, including regulations and any other guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service with respect thereto.
16.14
Section 409A of the Code
. The Plan shall be binding on all successors and permitted assigns of a Participant, including, without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate.
16.15
Successor and Assigns
. If any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
16.16
Severability of Provisions
 
Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of receipt thereof shall be deemed paid when paid to such person's guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to provide for the care of such person, and such payment shall fully discharge the Committee, the Board, the Company, its Affiliates and their employees, agents and representatives with respect thereto.
16.17
.
Payments to Minors, Etc
. The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.
16.18
Headings and Captions
The Plan will become effective on May 15, 2008 subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders on such date.
No Award shall be granted pursuant to the Plan on or after May 15, 2018, but awards granted prior to such date may extend beyond that date. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, provided that no Award (other than a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right) that is intended to be "performance-based" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be granted on or after the fifth anniversary of the date of stockholder approval of the Plan as restated effective May 15, 2008, unless the Performance Goals set forth on Exhibit A are reapproved (or other designated performance goals are approved) by the stockholders no later than the first stockholder meeting that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which stockholders approve the Performance Goals set forth on Exhibit A.
This Plan shall be known as the "NYSE Euronext Omnibus Incentive Plan."
 
Unless the Board determines otherwise, all Awards granted under this Plan shall be subject to, and governed by, the provisions of this Article XX
20.1
Applicability of Article.
In the event that a Participant transfers from employment with the Company or an Affiliate to employment with NYSE Regulation, Inc., also an Affiliate, any Awards held by such Participant shall be subject to the forfeiture and/or mandated divestiture provisions set forth in Section 20.3 below. For purposes of this Article XX, a Participant who transfers to employment with NYSE Regulation, Inc. shall be referred to as an "Affected Participant." Notwithstanding any contrary provision contained in this Plan, Merger Transaction RSUs granted prior to the Affected Participant's transfer of employment to NYSE Regulation, Inc. shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.3(f) of the Plan and the individual Award agreement.
20.2 .
Affected Participants
Any Award held by an Affected Participant shall be subject to the forfeiture and required divestiture requirements set forth in this Section 20.3.
20.3 .
Forfeiture/Required Divestiture
 
 
 
 
 
NYSE Euronext has caused this Plan to be adopted effective as of the date set forth herein and, as evidence of said adoption, NYSE Euronext has caused this instrument to be executed this 15th day of May, 2008.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
On this 15th day of May 2008, before me personally came Duncan L. Niederauer, to me known and known to me to be the Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext, and acknowledged that he executed the foregoing certification.
 
Performance goals established for purposes of the grant or vesting of Awards of Restricted Stock, Other Stock-Based Awards, Performance Shares and/or Performance-Based Cash Awards, each intended to be "performance-based" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be based on the attainment of certain target levels of, or a specified increase or decrease (as applicable) in one or more of the following performance goals determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) ("Performance Goals"):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To the extent permitted under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, also exclude, or adjust to reflect, the impact of an event or occurrence which the Committee determines should be appropriately excluded or adjusted, including:
 
 
 
Performance Goals may also be based upon individual Participant performance goals, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
In addition, such Performance Goals may be based upon the attainment of specified levels of Company (or subsidiary, division, other operational unit or administrative department of the Company) performance under one or more of the measures described above relative to the performance of other corporations. To the extent permitted under Section 162(m) of the Code, but only to the extent permitted under Section 162(m) of the Code (including, without limitation, compliance with any requirements for stockholder approval), the Committee may:
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Amsterdam, May 15, 2008  NYSE Euronext (NYX) and Euronext N.V. (NXT) announced today that the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeals has rendered its final judgment on the matter of the statutory buy-out of the remaining Euronext shareholders holding a minority of approximately 2% of the shares of Euronext N.V.
The buy-out price as determined by the Enterprise Chamber amounts to  94.05 per Euronext share, plus legal interest (currently at the rate of 6% per annum) calculated from and including May 15, 2008 until and excluding the day of payment.
The aggregate consideration, including accrued interest, payable for the Euronext shares held by the minority shareholders is approximately 251,927,000 (USD 388,951,000).
Payment for all Euronext shares held through Euroclear France S.A. will take place on May 20, 2008. Hence, the aggregate consideration per Euronext share held through Euroclear France will be  94.13 (USD 145.32) rounded down to the nearest eurocent and payable in euros. On that same date, Euronext shares subject to the buy-out procedure and held through Euroclear France will be transferred to NYSE Euronext (Holding) N.V. and all Euronext shares will be delisted from Euronext Paris.
The payment process for all Euronext Shares held through Euroclear France will be centralized with Socit Gnrale. Individual accounts will be closed by Euroclear France and the account-holding institutions will credit the accounts of Euronext shareholders with the amount owed to them. Any amounts for which the beneficiary is unknown will be retained by Socit Gnrale for 10 years. At the expiration of the 10-year period, any unclaimed amounts will be paid over by Socit Gnrale to the operated by the French Ministry of Finance and will be held on behalf of the beneficiaries at their disposal.
Caisse des dpts et consignations
Holders of Euronext shares in registered form will be contacted directly by NYSE Euronext (Holding) N.V. in order to settle payment obligations as soon as practically possible.
Trading of Euronext shares on Euronext Paris was suspended before opening of the market pending the issuance of this press release.
As a reminder, NYSE Euronext (Holding) N.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of NYSE Euronext, announced on June 6, 2007 that it had commenced the statutory buy-out procedure under Dutch law. The requisite writ of summons was issued by a bailiff upon the remaining minority shareholders of Euronext N.V., together holding approximately 2% of Euronext N.V. shares, and proposed a price of 94.05 per share equal to the cash equivalent of the unconditional principal offer consideration on 4 April 2007. The buy-out procedure provides that the price to be paid to the remaining shareholders of Euronext N.V. for the purchase of their shares is payable in cash only and is determined by the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeals.
For a description of the principles governing the taxation applicable to French and Belgian residents in respect of the squeeze-out, please refer to paragraphs 5.2.1 and 5.2.2 of the cleared by the on January 18, 2007 under the number 07-018.
Note d'information
Autorit des marchs financiers


