FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20080424164250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 23, 2008, NYSE Euronext (the "Company") completed its offering of 750 million ($1,185 million) in aggregate principal amount of 5.375% Notes due 2015 (the "Notes") pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). In connection with the pricing of the offering, the Company entered into a Subscription Agreement dated as of April 18, 2008 (the "Subscription Agreement") with ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Barclays Bank PLC, Socit Gnrale, JP Morgan Securities Ltd., and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, as Joint Lead Managers.
The Notes were issued pursuant to an Agency Agreement dated as of April 23, 2008 (the "Agency Agreement") among the Company, Citibank, N.A., London Branch, as fiscal and paying agent, Dexia Banque Internationale  Luxembourg, socit anonyme, as Luxembourg Paying Agent, and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., as paying agent. The Agency Agreement provides that the Notes may be redeemed by the Company for certain tax reasons and at the option of the Note holder upon a change of control and if the Notes are rated below an investment grade rating under certain circumstances. The Agency Agreement provides for customary events of default and a negative pledge covenant. Under the negative pledge covenant, the Company has agreed that its present or future indebtedness shall not be secured by any mortgage, lien, charge, pledge or other security interests unless the equivalent is provided with respect to the Notes, or otherwise approved by the Note holders. The Agency Agreement does not contain any financial covenants.
The Notes will mature on June 30, 2015. Interest on the Notes will be payable annually on June 30 of each year, beginning on June 30, 2009.
The Notes are unsecured obligations of the Company and rank with all other outstanding unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company. The proceeds of the Notes will be used for general corporate purposes, including the refinancing of existing debt. The Notes will be listed on Euronext Amsterdam and the Luxembourg Stock Exchange's regulated market.
pari passu
The Subscription Agreement and the Agency Agreement are governed by English law.
The descriptions of the Subscription Agreement and the Agency Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the agreements, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 1.1 and 4.1, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information included in Item 1.01 of this Report is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 1.1
CONFORMED COPY
 
is made on 18 April 2008 :
THIS AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
 
 
:
WHEREAS
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The net subscription money in respect of the Notes, namely the sum of 743,557,500 (representing the Subscription Price, less the amount of the commission specified in clause 4) and less any amount deductible under, or under any arrangement referred to in, clause 5 will be paid by ABN AMRO on behalf of the Joint Lead Managers to the Issuer at 10.00 a.m. (Brussels time) on 23 April 2008 or at such other time and/or date as the Issuer and the Joint Lead Managers may agree (the )
Closing Date
 
in immediately available funds against delivery of a duly executed temporary global note (the ) initially representing the Notes and a duly executed permanent global note (the and, together with the Temporary Global Note, the ), each in or substantially in the form provided in the Agency Agreement, to a common safekeeper (the ) for Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and for Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme to be held, in the case of the Permanent Global Note, on terms agreed between the Joint Lead Managers, the Issuer and the Common Safekeeper.
Temporary Global Note
Permanent Global Note
Global Notes
Common Safekeeper
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In consideration of the agreement by the Joint Lead Managers to act as the managers in relation to the issue of the Notes and to subscribe and pay for or procure subscriptions and payment for the Notes as provided above, the Issuer shall pay to the Joint Lead Managers a combined selling concession and management and underwriting commission of 0.30 per cent. of the principal amount of the Notes. The Joint Lead Managers shall be entitled to deduct such commission from the Subscription Price as provided in clauses 1 and 2. Arrangements for the apportionment of such commission have been separately agreed between the Joint Lead Managers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Issuer shall pay to that Joint Lead Manager on demand an amount equal to such Loss. No Joint Lead Manager shall have any duty or obligation, whether as fiduciary or trustee for any Relevant Party or otherwise, to recover any such payment or to account to any other person for any amounts paid to it under this subclause 6.2.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Joint Lead Manager (or persons acting on its behalf), in connection with the distribution of the Notes, offers Notes in excess of the aggregate principal amount to be issued or effects transactions with a view to supporting the market price of the Notes at levels other than those which might
 
otherwise prevail in the open market, such person(s) shall not in doing so be deemed to act as an agent of the Issuer. The Issuer will not as a result of any action taken by a Joint Lead Manager (or persons acting on its behalf), under this clause be obliged to issue Notes in excess of the aggregate amount of Notes to be issued under this Agreement, nor shall the Issuer be liable for any loss, or entitled to any profit, arising from any excess offers or stabilisation.
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the Joint Lead Managers may by notice to the Issuer terminate this Agreement at any time before the time on the Closing Date when payment would otherwise be due under this Agreement to the Issuer in respect of the Notes if, in the opinion of the Joint Lead Managers, there shall have been such a change, whether or not foreseeable at the date of this Agreement, in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls as would in their view be likely to prejudice materially the success of the offering and distribution of the Notes or dealings in the Notes in the secondary market and upon the notice being given the parties to this Agreement shall (except for the liability of the Issuer in relation to expenses as provided in clause 5 and except for any liability arising before or in relation to such termination) be released and discharged from their respective obligations under this Agreement.
 
The Issuer acknowledges and agrees that each Joint Lead Manager is acting solely pursuant to a contractual relationship with the Issuer on an arm's length basis with respect to the issue, offer and sale of the Notes (including in connection with determining the terms of the issue, offer and sale of the Notes) and not as a financial advisor or a fiduciary to the Issuer or any other person. Additionally, the Issuer acknowledges that the Joint Lead Managers are not advising the Issuer or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction. The Issuer shall consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Joint Lead Managers shall have no responsibility or liability to the Issuer with respect thereto. The Issuer further acknowledges and agrees that any review by the Joint Lead Managers of the Issuer, the issue, offer and sale of the Notes, the terms of the Notes and other matters relating thereto will be performed solely for the benefit of the Joint Lead Managers and shall not be on behalf of the Issuer or any other person. The foregoing is without prejudice to any obligation of the Joint Lead Managers to make recommendations to the Issuer concerning the pricing and allocation of the offering in accordance with applicable rules of the UK Financial Services Authority.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By executing this Agreement, each of the Joint Lead Managers hereby agrees to be bound by the provisions of the IPMA Agreement Among Managers Version 1 (Fixed-Price Non Equity-Related Issues  with or without Selling Group).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the hands of the parties (or their duly authorised representatives) on the date which appears first on page 1.
AS WITNESS
 
April 18, 2008
NYSE Euronext
and
ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
Barclays Bank PLC
Socit Gnrale
J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd.
Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have audited:
 
 
The consolidated financial statements referred to above are included in the preliminary prospectus dated April 8, 2008 and the prospectus dated April 18, 2008 related to the offering of the Company's 750,000,000 5.375 per cent Notes due 2015. Our report, which contains an explanatory paragraph with respect to the Company's exclusion of Euronext N.V. from our audit of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting due to the fact that it was acquired by the Company in a purchase business combination during 2007, with respect to the audits referred to above is also included in the Prospectus. The preliminary prospectus dated April 8, 2008 and the prospectus dated April 18, 2008 are herein referred to as the "Prospectus".
We are an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company under Rule 101 of the Code of Professional Conduct of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the "PCAOB") and the applicable interpretations and rulings.
We have not audited any financial statements of the Company as of any date or for any period subsequent to December 31, 2007. Therefore, we are unable to and do not express any opinion on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of any date or for any period subsequent to December 31, 2007. Also, we have not audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of any date subsequent to December 31, 2007. Therefore, we do not express any opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of any date subsequent to December 31, 2007.
 
 
Company officials have advised us that no consolidated financial data as of any date or for any period subsequent to December 31, 2007 are available; accordingly, the procedures carried out by us with respect to changes in financial statement items after December 31, 2007 have, of necessity, been limited. We have inquired of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters as to whether (a) at April 16, 2008 there was any change in the capital stock, increase in long-term debt, or decrease in consolidated stockholders' equity of the Company as compared with amounts shown in the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet included in the Prospectus; or (b) for the period from January 1, 2008 to April 16, 2008 there were any decreases, as compared with the corresponding period in the preceding year, in consolidated total revenues or in the total or per-share amounts of net income.
Those officials referred to above stated that (1) at April 16, 2008, there was no change in the capital stock, increase in long-term debt, or decrease in consolidated stockholders' equity of the Company as compared with amounts shown in the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet included in the Prospectus, and (2) there were no decreases for the period from January 1, 2008 to April 16, 2008, as compared with the corresponding period in the preceding year, in consolidated total revenues or in the total or per-share amounts of net income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very truly yours,
 
April 23, 2008
NYSE Euronext
and
ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
Barclays Bank PLC
Socit Gnrale
J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd.
Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We refer to our letter of April 18, 2008 relating to the Prospectus dated April 18, 2008 (the "Prospectus") relating to the offering of 750,000,000 5.375 per cent Notes due 2015 of NYSE Euronext (the "Company"). We reaffirm as of the date hereof (and as though made on the date hereof) all statements made in that letter, except that for the purposes of this letter:
 
 
 
This letter is solely for your information and to assist you in your inquiries in connection with the offering of the securities covered by the Prospectus, and it is not to be used, circulated, quoted, or otherwise referred to for any other purpose, including but not limited to the registration, purchase, or sale of securities, nor is it to be filed with or referred to in whole or in part in the Prospectus or any other document, except that reference may be made to it in any list of closing documents pertaining to the offering of the securities covered by the Prospectus.
Very truly yours,
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
CONFORMED COPY
 
is dated 23 April 2008 and made
THIS AGREEMENT
:
BETWEEN
 
 
 
 
:
WHEREAS
 
 
 
 
as follows:
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED
 
 
 
 
 
means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme;
Clearstream, Luxembourg
means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V.;
Euroclear
means an executive officer of the Issuer, including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or any person who holds the title of "Group Executive Vice President" or an equivalent title;
Executive Officer of the Issuer
and mean and include each Fiscal Agent, Paying Agent and Replacement Agent from time to time appointed to exercise the powers and undertake the duties conferred and imposed upon it by this Agreement and notified to the Noteholders under clause 21;
Fiscal Agent, Paying Agents
Replacement Agent
means at any time a Subsidiary of the Issuer:
Material Subsidiary
 
 
 
For the purposes of this definition:
 
 
 
 
 
 
A report by an Executive Officer of the Issuer that in its opinion a Subsidiary of the Issuer is or is not or was or was not at any particular time or throughout any specified period a Material Subsidiary, shall (in the absence of manifest error), be conclusive and binding on all parties;
means in relation to the Notes all the Notes issued other than:
outstanding
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided that for each of the following purposes, namely:
 
 
those Notes (if any) which are for the time being held by any person (including but not limited to, the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries) for the benefit of the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries shall (unless and until ceasing to be so held) be deemed not to remain outstanding; and
means the offices specified in clause 23 or any other specified offices as may from time to time be duly notified pursuant to clause 23.
specified office
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case acting at its specified office.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Fiscal Agent shall notify by facsimile each of the other Paying Agents forthwith:
 
 
The Fiscal Agent shall, at the expense of the Issuer, forthwith upon receipt of any amount as described in subparagraph (b), cause notice of that receipt to be published under Condition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Fiscal Agent shall charge the account referred to in clause 5 for all payments made by it under this Agreement and will credit or transfer to the respective accounts of the other Paying Agents the amount of all payments made by them under the Conditions immediately upon notification from them, subject in each case to any applicable laws or regulations.
 
If the Issuer is, in respect of any payment in respect of the Notes, compelled to withhold or deduct any amount for or on account of any Taxes as contemplated by Condition 7, the Issuer shall give notice to the Fiscal Agent as soon as it becomes aware of the requirement to make the withholding or deduction and shall give to the Fiscal Agent such information as the Fiscal Agent shall require to enable it to comply with the requirement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
On behalf of and at the request and expense of the Issuer, the Fiscal Agent shall cause to be published all notices required to be given by the Issuer under the Conditions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Paying Agents shall hold copies of this Agreement and any other documents expressed to be held by them in the Prospectus dated 18 April 2008 issued by the Issuer in relation to the Notes available for inspection at all reasonable times during local business hours. For this purpose, the Issuer shall furnish the Paying Agents with sufficient copies of such documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sums paid by or by arrangement with the Issuer to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall not be required to be repaid to the Issuer unless and until any Note or Coupon becomes void under the provisions of Condition 8 but in that event the Fiscal Agent shall forthwith repay to the Issuer sums equivalent to the amounts which would otherwise have been payable in respect of the relevant Note or Coupon.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of all communications relating to the subject matter of this Agreement between the Issuer and any of the Paying Agents other than the Fiscal Agent shall be sent to the Fiscal Agent.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any notice required to be given under this Agreement to any of the parties shall be in English and shall be delivered in person, sent by pre-paid post (first class if inland, first class airmail if overseas), by facsimile or, if to the Issuer, by electronic communication, addressed to:
 
or such other address of which notice in writing has been given to the other parties to this Agreement under the provisions of this clause.
Any such notice shall take effect, if delivered in person, at the time of delivery, if sent by post, three days in the case of inland post or seven days in the case of overseas post after despatch, in the case of an electronic communication, when the relevant receipt of such communication being read is given or where no read receipt is requested by the sender, if no delivery failure notification is received by the sender within 24 hours of sending such communication, and, in the case of facsimile, 24 hours after the time of despatch, provided that in the case of a notice given by facsimile transmission or an electronic communication such notice shall forthwith be confirmed by post. The failure of the addressee to receive such confirmation shall not invalidate the relevant notice given by facsimile or electronic communication.
 
The Issuer agrees to pay any and all stamp and other documentary taxes or duties which may be payable in connection with the execution, delivery, performance and enforcement of this Agreement by the Paying Agent.
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement and any party may enter into this Agreement by executing a counterpart.
 
The descriptive headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or limit the provisions of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement may be amended by all of the parties, without the consent of any Noteholder or Couponholder, either:
 
 
 
No rights are conferred on any person under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any term of this Agreement, but this does not affect any right or remedy of any person which exists apart from that Act.
by each of the parties (or their duly authorised representatives) on the date which appears first on page 1.
SIGNED
ANY UNITED STATES PERSON WHO HOLDS THIS OBLIGATION WILL BE SUBJECT TO LIMITATIONS UNDER THE UNITED STATES INCOME TAX LAWS, INCLUDING THE LIMITATIONS PROVIDED IN SECTIONS 165(j) AND 1287(a) OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.
This temporary Global Note is issued in respect of the 750,000,000 5.375 per cent. Notes due 2015 (the ) of NYSE Euronext (the ). The Notes are issued subject to and with the benefit of an Agency Agreement (the ) dated 23 April 2008, between, among others, the Issuer and Citibank, N.A., London Branch as Fiscal Agent (the ) and the Conditions of the Notes (the ) set out in Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Agency Agreement.
Notes
Issuer
Agency Agreement
Fiscal Agent
Conditions
 
Subject as provided in this temporary Global Note, the Issuer, for value received, promises to pay the bearer of this temporary Global Note the sum of 750,000,000 (seven hundred and fifty million euros) or such lesser sum as is equal to the principal amount of the Notes represented by this temporary Global Note or such other amounts as are expressed to be payable in respect of the Notes represented by this temporary Global Note on early redemption of the Notes on 30 June 2015 or on such earlier date as the principal or other amounts in respect of this temporary Global Note may become due under the Conditions and to pay interest on the principal sum for the time being outstanding at the rate of 5.375 per cent. per annum from 23 April 2008 payable annually in arrear on 30 June in each year until payment of the principal sum has been made or duly provided for in full together with any other amounts as may be payable, all subject to and under the Conditions.
The principal amount of Notes represented by this temporary Global Note shall be the aggregate amount from time to time entered in the records of both Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme (together the ). The records of the relevant Clearing Systems (which expression in this temporary Global Note means the records that each relevant Clearing System holds for its customers which reflect the amount of such customer's interest in the Notes) shall be conclusive evidence of the principal amount of Notes represented by this temporary Global Note and, for these purposes, a statement issued by a relevant Clearing System (which statement shall be made available to the bearer upon request) stating the nominal amount of Notes represented by this temporary Global Note at any time shall be conclusive evidence of the records of the relevant Clearing System at that time.
relevant Clearing Systems
The permanent Global Note to be issued on exchange for interests in this temporary Global Note will be substantially in the form set out in Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Agency Agreement.
Subject as provided below, the permanent Global Note will only have an entry made to represent definitive Notes after the date which is 40 days after the closing date for the Notes (the ).
Exchange Date
Interests in this temporary Global Note may be exchanged for interests recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems in a duly executed and authenticated permanent Global Note without charge, in full or partial exchange for this temporary Global Note, in order that the permanent Global Note represents an aggregate principal amount of Notes equal to the principal amount of this temporary Global Note submitted for exchange. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such exchange shall be made unless there shall have been presented to the Fiscal Agent or such other person as the Fiscal Agent may direct (the ) by a relevant Clearing System a certificate (substantially in the form of Schedule 2 hereto) to the effect that it has received from or in respect of a person entitled to a beneficial interest in a particular principal amount of the Notes (as shown by its records) a certificate of non-US beneficial ownership from such person, substantially in the form of Schedule 1 hereto, or in such other form required by it.
Exchange Agent
Notwithstanding the foregoing, where this temporary Global Note has been exchanged in part for the permanent Global Note pursuant to the foregoing and definitive Notes have been issued in exchange for the total amount of Notes represented by the permanent Global Note pursuant to its terms, then interests in this temporary Global Note will no longer be exchangeable for interests in the permanent Global Note but will be exchangeable, in full or partial exchange, for duly executed and authenticated definitive Notes, without charge, in the denomination of 50,000 each with interest coupons attached, such definitive Notes to be substantially in the form set out in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Agency Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, definitive Notes shall not be so issued and delivered unless there shall have been presented to the Exchange Agent by a relevant Clearing System a certificate to the effect that it has received from or in respect of a person entitled to a beneficial interest in a particular principal amount of Notes (as shown by its records) a certificate of non-US beneficial ownership from such person, substantially in the form of Schedule 1 hereto, or in such other form required by it.
Any person who would, but for the provisions of this temporary Global Note and of the Agency Agreement, otherwise be entitled to receive either (a) an interest in the permanent Global Note or (b) definitive Notes shall not be entitled to require the exchange of an appropriate part of this temporary Global Note for an interest in the permanent Global Note or definitive Notes unless and until he shall have delivered or caused to be delivered to a relevant Clearing System a certificate of non-US beneficial ownership, substantially in the form of Schedule 1 hereto, or in such other form required by it.
Presentation of this temporary Global Note for exchange shall be made by the bearer hereof on any day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in London. The aggregate principal amount of interests in the permanent Global Note recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems or, as the case may be, definitive Notes issued upon an exchange of this temporary Global Note will, subject to the terms hereof, be equal to the aggregate principal amount of this temporary Global Note submitted by the bearer for exchange (to the extent that such principal amount does not exceed the aggregate principal amount of this temporary Global Note).
Upon (a) any exchange of a part of this temporary Global Note for an interest in the permanent Global Note or for a definitive Note, (b) receipt of instructions from a relevant Clearing System that, following the purchase by or on behalf of the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries of a part of this temporary Global Note, part is to be cancelled or (c) any redemption of a part of this temporary Global Note, the Issuer shall procure that the portion of the principal amount of this temporary Global Note so exchanged, cancelled or redeemed shall be entered in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems. On an exchange in whole of this temporary Global Note, this temporary Global Note shall be surrendered to or to the order of the Fiscal Agent.
pro rata
 
Until the entire principal amount of this temporary Global Note has been extinguished in exchange for the permanent Global Note and/or definitive Notes, the bearer of this temporary Global Note shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits as if he were the bearer of the definitive Notes referred to above, except that the bearer of this temporary Global Note shall only be entitled to receive any payment on this temporary Global Note on presentation of certificates as provided below. Accordingly, except as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction or as required by law or applicable regulation, the Issuer and any Paying Agent may deem and treat the holder of this temporary Global Note as the absolute owner of this temporary Global Note for all purposes. All payments of any amounts payable and paid to such holder shall, to the extent of the sums so paid, discharge the liability for the moneys payable on this temporary Global Note and on the relevant definitive Notes and/or Coupons.
 
Payments due in respect of Notes for the time being represented by this temporary Global Note shall be made to the bearer of this temporary Global Note only upon presentation by a relevant Clearing System to the Fiscal Agent at its specified office of a certificate to the effect that it has received from or in respect of a person entitled to a particular principal amount of the Notes (as shown on its records) a certificate of non-US beneficial ownership, substantially in the form of Schedule 1 hereto, or in such other form required by it. Each payment so made will discharge the Issuer's obligations in respect thereof.
The bearer of this temporary Global Note will not be entitled to receive any payment of interest due on or after the Exchange Date unless, upon due certification, exchange of this temporary Global Note is improperly withheld or refused.
Upon any payment in respect of the Notes represented by this temporary Global Note, the Issuer shall procure that the amount so paid shall be entered in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems. In the case of any payment of principal the Issuer shall procure that the amount so paid shall be entered in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems and, upon such entry being made, the principal amount of the Notes recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems and represented by this temporary Global Note shall be reduced by the amount so paid. Any failure to make such entries shall not affect the discharge referred to in the first paragraph above.
pro rata
pro rata
 
For so long as any of the Notes is represented by this temporary Global Note or by this temporary Global Note and the permanent Global Note and such Global Note(s) is/are held on behalf of the relevant Clearing Systems, each person (other than a relevant Clearing System) who
is for the time being shown in the records of a relevant Clearing System as the holder of a particular principal amount of Notes (each an ) (in which regard any certificate or other document issued by a relevant Clearing System as to the principal amount of such Notes standing to the account of any person shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes) shall be treated as the holder of that principal amount for all purposes (including but not limited to for the purposes of any quorum requirements of, or the right to demand a poll or, meetings of the Noteholders and giving notice to the Issuer pursuant to Condition 9 and tendering Notes in any Change of Control Offer made pursuant to Condition 6.3) other than with respect to the payment of principal, premium and interest on the Notes, the right to which shall be vested, as against the Issuer, solely in the bearer of this temporary Global Note in accordance with and subject to its terms. Each Accountholder must look solely to the relevant Clearing Systems for its share of each payment made to the bearer of this temporary Global Note.
Accountholder
The Issuer covenants in favour of each Accountholder that it will make all payments in respect of the principal amount of Notes for the time being shown in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems as being held by the Accountholder and represented by this temporary Global Note to the bearer of this temporary Global Note in accordance with clause 1 above and acknowledges that each Accountholder may take proceedings to enforce this covenant and any of the other rights which it has under the first paragraph of this clause directly against the Issuer.
 
For so long as all of the Notes are represented by this temporary Global Note or by this temporary Global Note and the permanent Global Note and such Global Note(s) is/are held on behalf of a relevant Clearing System, notices to Noteholders may be given by delivery of the relevant notice to the relevant Clearing Systems for communication to the relative Accountholders rather than by publication as required by Condition 11; provided that, so long as the Notes are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, notice will also be given by publication in a daily newspaper published in Luxembourg of and to the extent that the rules of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange so require. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given to the Noteholders on the second day after the day on which such notice is delivered to the relevant Clearing Systems as aforesaid.
 
Claims against the Issuer in respect of principal and interest on the Notes represented by this temporary Global Note will be prescribed after 10 years (in the case of principal) and five years (in the case of interest) from the Relevant Date (as defined in Condition 7).
 
For so long as all of the Notes are represented by this temporary Global Note or by this temporary Global Note and the permanent Global Note and such Global Note(s) is/are held on behalf of the relevant Clearing Systems, the option of the Noteholders in respect of any Change of Control Offer made pursuant to Condition 6.3 may be exercised by an Accountholder giving notice to the Fiscal Agent in accordance with the standard procedure of the relevant Clearing Systems (which may include notice being given on his instruction by a relevant Clearing System or any common safekeeper for them to the Fiscal Agent by electronic means) and in a form acceptable to the relevant Clearing Systems of the principal amount of the Notes in respect of which such option is exercised and at the same time presenting or procuring the presentation of this temporary Global Note to the Fiscal Agent for notation accordingly within the time limits set forth in that Condition.
Notes represented by this temporary Global Note are transferable in accordance with the rules and procedures of the relevant Clearing Systems.
 
This temporary Global Note shall not become valid or enforceable for any purpose unless and until it has been authenticated by or on behalf of the Fiscal Agent and effectuated by the entity appointed as common safekeeper by the relevant Clearing Systems.
 
No rights are conferred on any person under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any term of this temporary Global Note, but this does not affect any right or remedy of any person which exists or is available apart from that Act.
 
This temporary Global Note is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law.
whereof this temporary Global Note has been executed as a deed on behalf of the Issuer.
IN WITNESS
 
 
This is to certify that as of the date hereof, and except as set forth below, the above-captioned Notes held by you for our account (a) are owned by persons that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States Federal income taxation regardless of its source (), (b) are owned by United States person(s) that (i) are foreign branches of a United States financial institution (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(iv)) () purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (ii) acquired the Notes through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Notes through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (i) or (ii), each such United States financial institution hereby agrees, on its own behalf or through its agent, that you may advise the issuer or the issuer's agent that it will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (c) are owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)), and in addition if the owner of the Notes is a United States or foreign financial institution described in clause (c) (whether or not also described in clause (a) or (b)) this is to further certify that such financial institution has not acquired the Notes for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States person or to a person within the United States or its possessions.
United States persons
financial institutions
If the Notes are of the category contemplated in Section 230.903(b)(3) of Regulation S under the Notes Act of 1933, as amended (the ), then this is also to certify that, except as set forth below, the Notes are beneficially owned by (1) non-U.S. person(s) or (2) U.S. person(s) who purchased the Notes in transactions which did not require registration under the Act. As used in this paragraph the term has the meaning given to it by Regulation S under the Act.
Act
U.S. person
As used herein, means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia); and its include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
United States
possessions
We undertake to advise you promptly by tested telex on or prior to the date on which you intend to submit your certification relating to the Notes held by you for our account in accordance with your operating procedures if any applicable statement herein is not correct on such date, and in the absence of any such notification it may be assumed that this certification applies as of such date.
This certification excepts and does not relate to [] of such interest in the above Notes in respect of which we are not able to certify and as to which we understand exchange and delivery of definitive Notes (or, if relevant, exercise of any rights or collection of any interest) cannot be made until we do so certify.
amount
We understand that this certification is required in connection with certain tax laws and, if applicable, certain securities laws of the United States. In connection therewith, if administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certification is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorise you to produce this certification to any interested party in such proceedings.
 
This is to certify that, based solely on certifications we have received in writing, by tested telex or by electronic transmission from member organisations appearing in our records as persons being entitled to a portion of the principal amount set forth below (our ) substantially to the effect set forth in the temporary global note issued in respect of the Notes, as of the date hereof, [] principal amount of the above-captioned Notes (a) is owned by persons that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States Federal income taxation regardless of its source (), (b) is owned by United States persons that (i) are foreign branches of United States financial institutions (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(iv)) () purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (ii) acquired the Notes through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Notes through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (i) or (ii), each such United States financial institution has agreed, on its own behalf or through its agent, that we may advise the Issuer or the Issuer's agent that it will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (c) is owned by United States or foreign financial institutions for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)), and to the further effect that United States or foreign financial institutions described in clause (c) (whether or not also described in clause (a) or (b)) have certified that they have not acquired the Notes for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States person or to a person within the United States or its possessions.
Member Organisations
amount
United States persons
financial institutions
If the Notes are of the category contemplated in Section 230.903(b)(3) of Regulation S under the Notes Act of 1933, as amended (the ), then this is also to certify with respect to the principal amount of Notes set forth above that, except as set forth below, we have received in writing, by tested telex or by electronic transmission, from our Member Organisations entitled to a portion of such principal amount, certifications with respect to such portion substantially to the effect set forth in the temporary global note issued in respect of the Notes.
Act
We further certify (1) that we are not making available herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, exercise of any rights or collection of any interest) any portion of the temporary global security excepted in such certifications and (2) that as of the date hereof we have not received any notification from any of our Member Organisations to the effect that the statements made by such Member Organisations with respect to any portion of the part submitted herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, exercise of any rights or collection of any interest) are no longer true and cannot be relied upon as of the date hereof.
We understand that this certification is required in connection with certain tax laws and, if applicable, certain securities laws of the United States. In connection therewith, if administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certification is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorise you to produce this certification to any interested party in such proceedings.
ANY UNITED STATES PERSON WHO HOLDS THIS OBLIGATION WILL BE SUBJECT TO LIMITATIONS UNDER THE UNITED STATES INCOME TAX LAWS, INCLUDING THE LIMITATIONS PROVIDED IN SECTIONS 165(j) AND 1287(a) OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.
This permanent Global Note is issued in respect of the 750,000,000 5.375 per cent Notes due 2015 (the ) of NYSE Euronext (the ). The Notes are initially represented by a temporary Global Note interests in which will be exchanged in accordance with the terms of the temporary Global Note for interests in this permanent Global Note and, if applicable, definitive Notes. The Notes are issued subject to and with the benefit of an Agency Agreement (the ) dated 23 April 2008, between, among others, the Issuer and Citibank, N.A., London Branch as Fiscal Agent (the ) and the Conditions of the Notes (the ) set out in Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Agency Agreement.
Notes
Issuer
Agency Agreement
Fiscal Agent
Conditions
 
Subject as provided in this permanent Global Note, the Issuer, for value received, promises to pay the bearer of this permanent Global Note the sum of 750,000,000 (seven hundred and fifty million euros) or such lesser sum as is equal to the principal amount of the Notes represented by this permanent Global Note or such other amounts as are expressed to be payable in respect of the Notes represented by this permanent Global Note on early redemption of the Notes on 30 June 2015 or on such earlier date as the principal in respect of this permanent Global Note may become due under the Conditions and to pay interest on the principal sum for the time being outstanding at the rate of 5.375 per cent. per annum from 23 April 2008, payable annually in arrear on 30 June in each year until payment of the principal sum has been made or duly provided for in full together with any other amounts as may be payable, all subject to and under the Conditions.
The principal amount of Notes represented by this permanent Global Note shall be the aggregate amount from time to time entered in the records of both Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme (together the ). The records of the relevant Clearing Systems (which expression in this permanent Global Note means the records that each relevant Clearing System holds for its customers which reflect the amount of such customer's interest in the Notes) shall be conclusive evidence of the principal amount of Notes represented by this permanent Global Note and, for these purposes, a statement issued by a relevant Clearing System (which statement shall be made available to the bearer upon request) stating the nominal amount of Notes represented by this permanent Global Note at any time shall be conclusive evidence of the records of the relevant Clearing System at that time.
relevant Clearing Systems
Upon any exchange of an interest recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems in the temporary Global Note representing the Notes for an interest recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems in this permanent Global Note, the Issuer shall procure that details of such exchange shall be entered pro rata in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems.
 
Upon the occurrence of an Exchange Event (as further described below), this permanent Global Note may be exchanged for duly executed and authenticated definitive Notes without charge and the Fiscal Agent or such other person as the Fiscal Agent may direct (the ) shall deliver, in full (but not in partial) exchange for this permanent Global Note, an aggregate principal amount of duly executed and authenticated definitive Notes with Coupons attached equal to the total principal amount of this permanent Global Note.
Exchange Agent
An Exchange Event will occur if:
 
 
 
 
The Issuer will promptly give notice to Noteholders if an Exchange Event (other than an Exchange Event as described in (d) above) occurs. In the case of (a), (b), or (d), the bearer of this permanent Global Note, acting on the instructions of one or more of the Accountholders (as defined below), may give notice to the Issuer and the Fiscal Agent and, in the case of (c) above, the Issuer may give notice to the Fiscal Agent of its intention to exchange this permanent Global Note for definitive Notes on or after the Exchange Date (as defined below).
On or after the Exchange Date the holder of this permanent Global Note may or, in the case of (c) above, shall surrender this permanent Global Note to or to the order of the Fiscal Agent. In exchange for this permanent Global Note the Issuer will deliver, or procure the delivery of, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Notes (having attached to them all Coupons in respect of interest which has not already been paid on this permanent Global Note), security printed in accordance with any applicable legal and stock exchange requirements and in or substantially in the form set out in the Agency Agreement. On exchange of this permanent Global Note, the Issuer will procure that it is cancelled and, if the holder so requests, returned to the holder together with any relevant definitive Notes.
means a day specified in the notice requiring exchange falling not less than 30 days after that on which such notice is given, being a day on which banks are open for general business in the place in which the specified office of the Fiscal Agent is located and, except in the case of exchange pursuant to (b) above, in the place in which the relevant clearing system is located.
Exchange Date
The definitive Notes to be issued on exchange will be in bearer form in the denomination of 50,000 each with interest coupons () attached and will be substantially in the form set out in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Agency Agreement.
Coupons
Upon (a) receipt of instructions from the relevant Clearing Systems that, following the purchase by or on behalf of the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries of a part of this permanent Global Note, part is to be cancelled or (b) any redemption of a part of this permanent Global Note, the Issuer shall procure that the portion of the principal amount of this permanent Global Note so cancelled or redeemed shall be entered pro rata in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems. On an exchange in whole of this permanent Global Note, this permanent Global Note shall be surrendered to the Fiscal Agent.
 
Until the entire principal amount of this permanent Global Note has been extinguished in exchange for definitive Notes or in any other manner envisaged by the Conditions, the bearer of this permanent Global Note shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits as if he were the bearer of the definitive Notes referred to above. Accordingly, except as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction or as required by law or applicable regulation, the Issuer and any Paying Agent may deem and treat the holder of this permanent Global Note as the absolute owner of this permanent Global Note for all purposes. All payments of any amounts payable and paid to such holder shall, to the extent of the sums so paid, discharge the liability for the moneys payable on this permanent Global Note and on the relevant definitive Notes and/or Coupons.
 
Payments due in respect of Notes for the time being represented by this permanent Global Note shall be made to the bearer of this permanent Global Note and each payment so made will discharge the Issuer's obligations in respect thereof.
Upon any payment in respect of the Notes represented by this permanent Global Note, the Issuer shall procure that the amount so paid shall be entered pro rata in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems. In the case of any payment of principal the Issuer shall procure that the amount so paid shall be entered in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems and, upon any such entry being made, the principal amount of the Notes recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems and represented by this permanent Global Note shall be reduced by the amount so paid. Any failure to make such entries shall not affect the discharge referred to in the previous paragraph.
pro rata
 
For so long as any of the Notes is represented by this permanent Global Note or by this permanent Global Note and the temporary Global Note and such Global Note(s) is/are held on behalf of the relevant Clearing Systems, each person (other than a relevant Clearing System) who is for the time being shown in the records of a relevant Clearing Systems as the holder of a particular principal amount of Notes (each an Accountholder) (in which regard any certificate or other document issued by a relevant Clearing System as to the principal amount of such Notes standing to the account of any person shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes) shall be
treated as the holder of that principal amount for all purposes (including but not limited to for the purposes of any quorum requirements of, or the right to demand a poll or, meetings of the Noteholders and giving notice to the Issuer pursuant to Condition 9 and tendering Notes in any Change of Control Offer made pursuant to Condition 6.3) other than with respect to the payment of principal and interest on the Notes, the right to which shall be vested, as against the Issuer, solely in the bearer of this permanent Global Note in accordance with and subject to its terms. Each Accountholder must look solely to the relevant Clearing Systems, for its share of each payment made to the bearer of this permanent Global Note.
The Issuer covenants in favour of each Accountholder that it will make all payments in respect of the principal amount of Notes for the time being shown in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems as being held by the Accountholder and represented by this permanent Global Note to the bearer of this permanent Global Note in accordance with clause 1 above and acknowledges that each Accountholder may take proceedings to enforce this covenant and any of the other rights which it has under the first paragraph of this clause directly against the Issuer.
 
For so long as all of the Notes are represented by this permanent Global Note or by this permanent Global Note and the temporary Global Note and such Global Note(s) is/are held on behalf of a relevant Clearing System, notices to Noteholders may be given by delivery of the relevant notice to the relevant Clearing Systems for communication to the relative Accountholders rather than by publication as required by Condition 11, provided that, so long as the Notes are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, notice will also be given by publication in the daily newspaper published in Luxembourg of and to the extent that the rules of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange so require. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given to the Noteholders on the second day after the day on which such notice is delivered to the relevant Clearing Systems as aforesaid.
 
Claims against the Issuer in respect of principal and interest on the Notes represented by this permanent Global Note will be prescribed after 10 years (in the case of principal) and five years (in the case of interest) from the Relevant Date (as defined in Condition 7).
 
For so long as all of the Notes are represented by this permanent Global Note or by this permanent Global Note and the temporary Global Note and such Global Note(s) is/are held on behalf of the relevant Clearing Systems, the option of the Noteholders in respect of any Change of Control Offer made pursuant to Condition 6.3 may be exercised by an Accountholder giving notice to the Fiscal Agent in accordance with the standard procedures of the relevant Clearing Systems (which may include notice being given on his instructions by a relevant Clearing System or any common safekeeper for them to the Fiscal Agent by electronic means) and in a form acceptable to the relevant Clearing Systems of the principal amount of the Notes in respect of which such option is exercised and at the same time presenting or procuring the presentation of this permanent Global Note to the Fiscal Agent for notation accordingly within the time limits set forth in that Condition.
Notes represented by this permanent Global Note are transferable in accordance with the rules and procedures of the relevant Clearing Systems.
 
This permanent Global Note shall not become valid or enforceable for any purpose unless and until it has been authenticated by or on behalf of the Fiscal Agent and effectuated by the entity appointed as common safekeeper by the relevant Clearing Systems.
 
No rights are conferred on any person under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any term of this permanent Global Note, but this does not affect any right or remedy of any person which exists or is available apart from that Act.
 
This permanent Global Note is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law.
whereof this permanent Global Note has been executed as a deed on behalf of the Issuer.
IN WITNESS
 
()
Face of Note
 
The issue of the Notes was authorised by a resolution of a Special Committee of the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext (the ) passed on 25 March 2008. The Special Committee was duly appointed and authorised to take such action at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Issuer held on 13 March 2008.
Issuer
This Note forms one of a series of Notes issued as bearer Notes in the denomination of 50,000 each in an aggregate principal amount of 750,000,000.
The Issuer for value received and subject to and in accordance with the Conditions endorsed hereon hereby promises to pay to the bearer on 30 June 2015 (or on such earlier date as the principal sum (as determined under the Conditions) may become repayable under the said Conditions) the principal sum of:
together with interest on the principal sum of 50,000 at the rate of 5.375 per cent. per annum payable annually in arrear on each Interest Payment Date and together with such other amounts as may be payable, all subject to and under the Conditions.
The Notes are issued pursuant to an Agency Agreement (the ) dated 23 April 2008 between, among others, the Issuer and Citibank, N.A., London Branch as Fiscal Agent. The Notes have the benefit of, and are subject to, the provisions contained in the Agency Agreement and the Conditions.
Agency Agreement
Neither this Note nor any of the Coupons relating to this Note shall become valid or enforceable for any purpose unless and until this Note has been authenticated by or on behalf of the Fiscal Agent.
this Note and the Coupons relating to this Note have been executed on behalf of the Issuer.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
Dated as of 23 April 2008,
Issued in London, England.
 
ANY UNITED STATES PERSON WHO HOLDS THIS OBLIGATION WILL BE SUBJECT TO LIMITATIONS UNDER THE UNITED STATES INCOME TAX LAWS, INCLUDING THE LIMITATIONS PROVIDED IN SECTIONS 165(j) AND 1287(a) OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.
()
Reverse of Note
and/or such other or further Fiscal Agent or Paying Agents and/or specified offices as may from time to time be appointed by the Issuer and notice of which has been given to the Noteholders.
()
Face of Coupon
NYSE Euronext
750,000,000 5.375 per cent. Notes due 2015
 
NYSE Euronext
By:
ANY UNITED STATES PERSON WHO HOLDS THIS OBLIGATION WILL BE SUBJECT TO LIMITATIONS UNDER THE UNITED STATES INCOME TAX LAWS, INCLUDING THE LIMITATIONS PROVIDED IN SECTIONS 165(j) AND 1287(a) OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.
 
()
Reverse of Coupon
FISCAL AND PRINCIPAL PAYING AGENT:
Citibank, N.A., London Branch
21st Floor
Citigroup Centre
Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB
OTHER PAYING AGENTS:
Dexia Banque Internationale  Luxembourg, socit anonyme
69, route d'Esch
L-2953 Luxembourg
ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
Kemelstede 2
4817 ST Breda
The Netherlands
The 750,000,000 5.375 per cent. Notes due 2015 (the , which expression shall in these Conditions, unless the context otherwise requires, include any further notes issued pursuant to Condition 13 and forming a single series with the Notes) of NYSE Euronext (the ) are issued subject to and with the benefit of an Agency Agreement dated 23 April 2008 (such agreement as amended and/or supplemented and/or restated from time to time, the ) made between the Issuer, Citibank, N.A. as fiscal agent and principal paying agent (the ) and the other initial paying agents named in the Agency Agreement (together with the Fiscal Agent, the ).
Notes
Issuer
Agency Agreement
Fiscal Agent
Paying Agents
The statements in these Conditions include summaries of, and are subject to, the detailed provisions of and definitions in the Agency Agreement. Copies of the Agency Agreement are available for inspection during normal business hours by the holders of the Notes (the ) and the holders of the interest coupons appertaining to the Notes (the and the ) at the specified office of each of the Paying Agents. The Noteholders and the Couponholders are entitled to the benefit of, are bound by, and are deemed to have notice of, all the provisions of the Agency Agreement applicable to them. References in these Conditions to the Fiscal Agent and the Paying Agents shall include any successor appointed under the Agency Agreement.
Noteholders
Couponholders
Coupons
 
 
The Notes are in bearer form, serially numbered, in the denomination of 50,000, each with Coupons attached on issue.
 
Title to the Notes and to the Coupons will pass by delivery.
 
The Issuer and any Paying Agent may (to the fullest extent permitted by applicable laws) deem and treat the bearer of any Note or Coupon as the absolute owner for all purposes (whether or not the Note or Coupon shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing on the Note or Coupon or any notice of previous loss or theft of the Note or Coupon).
 
The Notes and the Coupons are direct, unconditional and (subject to the provisions of Condition 3) unsecured obligations of the Issuer and (subject as provided above) rank and will rank , without any preference among themselves, with all other outstanding unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer, present and future, but, in the event of insolvency, only to the extent permitted by applicable laws relating to creditors' rights.
pari passu
 
 
So long as any of the Notes remains outstanding, the Issuer will ensure that no Relevant Indebtedness will be secured by any mortgage, charge, lien, pledge or other security interest (each a ), other than a Permitted Security Interest, upon, or with respect to, any of the present or future business,
Security Interest
undertaking, assets or revenues (including any uncalled capital) of the Issuer or any of its Material Subsidiaries (as defined below) unless the Issuer, in the case of the creation of the Security Interest, before or at the same time and, in any other case, promptly, takes any and all action necessary to ensure that:
 
 
 
For the purposes of these Conditions:
 
 
 
 
all as more particularly defined in the Agency Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Notes bear interest from and including 23 April 2008 at the rate of 5.375 per cent. per annum, payable annually in arrear on 30 June (each an ). The first payment of interest (in respect of the period from and including 23 April 2008 to, but excluding, 30 June 2009 and amounting to 3,186.82 per 50,000 in principal amount of the Notes) shall be made on 30 June 2009.
Interest Payment Date
 
Each Note will cease to bear interest from and including its due date for redemption unless, upon due presentation, payment of the principal in respect of the Note is improperly withheld or refused or unless default is otherwise made in respect of payment. In such event, interest will continue to accrue until whichever is the earlier of:
 
 
When interest is required to be calculated in respect of a period of less than a full year, it shall be calculated on the basis of (a) the actual number of days in the period from and including the date from which interest begins to accrue (the ) to but excluding the date on which it falls due divided by (b) the actual number of days from and including the Accrual Date to but excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
Accrual Date
 
 
Payments of principal and interest in respect of each Note will be made against presentation and surrender (or, in the case of part payment only, endorsement) of the Note, except that payments of interest due on an Interest Payment Date will be made against presentation and surrender (or, in the case of part payment only, endorsement) of the relevant Coupon, in each case at the specified office outside the United States of any of the Paying Agents.
 
Payments will be made by credit or transfer to a euro account (or any other account to which euro may be credited or transferred) specified by the payee or, at the option of the payee, by euro cheque.
 
Each Note should be presented for payment together with all relative unmatured Coupons, failing which the full amount of any relative missing unmatured Coupon (or, in the case of payment not being made in full, that proportion of the full amount of the missing unmatured Coupon which the amount so paid bears to the total amount due) will be deducted from the amount due for payment. Each amount so deducted will be paid in the manner mentioned above against presentation and surrender (or, in the case of part payment only, endorsement) of the relative missing Coupon at any time before the expiry of 10 years after the Relevant Date (as defined in Condition 7) in respect of the relevant Note (whether or not the Coupon would otherwise have become void pursuant to Condition 8) or, if later, five years after the date on which the Coupon would have become due, but not thereafter.
 
Payments in respect of principal and interest on Notes are subject in all cases to any fiscal or other laws and regulations applicable in the place of payment, but without prejudice to the provisions of Condition 7.
 
A holder shall be entitled to present a Note or Coupon for payment only on a Presentation Date and shall not, except as provided in Condition 4, be entitled to any further interest or other payment if a Presentation Date is after the due date.
means a day which (subject to Condition 8):
Presentation Date
 
 
 
In this Condition, means, in relation to any place, a day on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments and are open for general business (including dealing in foreign exchange and foreign currency deposits) in that place and means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) system is open.
Business Day
Target Settlement Day
 
The names of the initial Paying Agents and their initial specified offices are set out at the end of these Conditions. The Issuer reserves the right at any time to vary or terminate the appointment of any Paying Agent and to appoint additional or other Paying Agents provided that:
 
 
 
Notice of any termination or appointment and of any changes in specified offices given to the Noteholders promptly by the Issuer in accordance with Condition 11.
 
 
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled as provided below, the Issuer will redeem the Notes at their principal amount on 30 June 2015.
 
If:
 
 
For the purposes of these Conditions, means an executive officer of the Issuer, including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or any person who holds the title of "Group Executive Vice President" or an equivalent title.
Executive Officer of the Issuer
 
 
In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101 per cent. of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (the ). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Issuer shall be required to deliver a notice to the Noteholders describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is delivered (the ), pursuant to the procedures required by the Notes and described in such notice. The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ) and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of the Notes, the Issuer shall be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under these Conditions by virtue of any such conflict.
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Exchange Act
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall be required, to the extent lawful, to:
 
 
 
The Issuer shall not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries (as defined above) may at any time purchase Notes (provided that all unmatured Coupons appertaining to the Notes are purchased with the Notes) in any manner and at any price.
 
All Notes which are (a) redeemed or (b) purchased by or on behalf of the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries will forthwith be cancelled, together with all relative unmatured Coupons attached to the Notes or surrendered with the Notes, and accordingly may not be reissued or resold.
Upon the expiry of any notice as is referred to in paragraphs 6.2 or 6.3 above the Issuer shall be bound to redeem the Notes to which the notice refers in accordance with the terms of such paragraph (in the case of paragraph 6.3 above, save as otherwise provided therein).
 
 
All payments in respect of the Notes by or on behalf of the Issuer shall be made without withholding or deduction for, or on account of, any present or future taxes, duties, assessments or governmental charges of whatever nature () imposed or levied by or on behalf of the Relevant Jurisdiction, unless the withholding or deduction of the Taxes is required by law. In that event, the Issuer will pay such additional amounts as may be necessary in order that the net amounts received by the Noteholders and Couponholders after the withholding or deduction shall equal the respective amounts which would have been receivable in respect of the Notes or, as the case may be, Coupons in the absence of the withholding or deduction; except that no additional amounts shall be payable in relation to any payment in respect of any Note or Coupon:
Taxes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In these Conditions:
 
 
 
Any reference in these Conditions to any amounts in respect of the Notes shall be deemed also to refer to any additional amounts which may be payable under this Condition.
 
Notes and Coupons will become void unless presented for payment within periods of 10 years (in the case of principal) and five years (in the case of interest) from the Relevant Date in respect of the Notes or, as the case may be, the Coupons, subject to the provisions of Condition 5.
 
 
The holder of any Note may give notice to the Issuer that the Note is, and it shall accordingly forthwith become, immediately due and repayable at its principal amount, together with interest accrued to the date of repayment, if any of the following events () shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of this Condition, means any indebtedness (whether being principal, premium, interest or other amounts) for or in respect of any notes, bonds, debentures, debenture stock, loan stock or other securities or any borrowed money or any liability under or in respect of any acceptance or acceptance credit.
Indebtedness for Borrowed Money
 
Should any Note or Coupon be lost, stolen, mutilated, defaced or destroyed it may be replaced at the specified office of the Fiscal Agent or the Paying Agents in Luxembourg or Amsterdam, upon payment by the claimant of the expenses incurred in connection with the replacement and on such terms as to evidence and indemnity as the Issuer may reasonably require. Mutilated or defaced Notes or Coupons must be surrendered before replacements will be issued.
 
 
All notices to the Noteholders will be valid if published in a leading English language daily newspaper published in London or such other English language daily newspaper with general circulation in Europe as
the Issuer may decide and, so long as the Notes are (i) listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and the rules of that exchange so require, in one daily newspaper published in Luxembourg and (ii) admitted to listing and trading on Euronext Amsterdam by NYSE Euronext and the rules of that exchange so require, in the Daily Official List of Euronext Amsterdam () and in one daily newspaper having general circulation in The Netherlands. It is expected that publication will normally be made in the and the or the . The Issuer shall also ensure that notices are duly published in a manner which complies with the rules and regulations of any stock exchange or other relevant authority on which the Notes are for the time being listed. Any such notice will be deemed to have been given on the date of the first publication or, where required to be published in more than one newspaper, on the date of the first publication in all required newspapers.
Officile Prijscourant
Financial Times
Luxemburger Wort
Tageblatt
 
Notices to be given by any Noteholder shall be in writing and given by lodging the same, together with the relative Note or Notes, with the Fiscal Agent or, if the Notes are held in a clearing system, may be given through the clearing system in accordance with its standard rules and procedures.
 
 
The Agency Agreement contains provisions for convening meetings of the Noteholders to consider any matter affecting their interests, including the modification by Extraordinary Resolution of any of these Conditions or any of the provisions of the Agency Agreement. The quorum at any meeting for passing an Extraordinary Resolution will be one or more persons present holding or representing more than 50 per cent. in principal amount of the Notes for the time being outstanding, or at any adjourned meeting one or more persons present whatever the principal amount of the Notes held or represented by him or them, except that at any meeting the business of which includes the modification of certain of these Conditions the necessary quorum for passing an Extraordinary Resolution will be one or more persons present holding or representing not less than two-thirds, or at any adjourned meeting not less than one-third, of the principal amount of the Notes for the time being outstanding. An Extraordinary Resolution passed at any meeting of the Noteholders will be binding on all Noteholders, whether or not they are present at the meeting, and on all Couponholders.
 
The Fiscal Agent may agree, without the consent of the Noteholders or Couponholders, to any modification of any of these Conditions or any of the provisions of the Agency Agreement either (i) for the purpose of curing any ambiguity or of curing, correcting or supplementing any manifest or proven error or any other defective provision contained herein or therein or (ii) in any other manner which is not materially prejudicial to the interests of the Noteholders. Any modification shall be binding on the Noteholders and the Couponholders and, unless the Fiscal Agent agrees otherwise, any modification shall be notified by the Issuer to the Noteholders as soon as practicable thereafter in accordance with Condition 11.
 
The Issuer may from time to time without the consent of the Noteholders or Couponholders create and issue further notes, having terms and conditions the same as those of the Notes, or the same except for the amount of the first payment of interest, which may be consolidated and form a single series with the outstanding Notes.
 
 
The Agency Agreement, the Notes and the Coupons are governed by, and will be construed in accordance with English law.
 
The Issuer has irrevocably agreed for the benefit of the Noteholders and the Couponholders that the courts of England are to have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any disputes which may arise out of or in connection
with the Notes or the Coupons and accordingly has submitted to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts. The Issuer waives any objection to the courts of England on the grounds that they are an inconvenient or inappropriate forum.
The Noteholders and the Couponholders may take any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with the Notes or the Coupons respectively (together referred to as ) against the Issuer in any other court of competent jurisdiction and concurrent Proceedings in any number of jurisdictions.
Proceedings
 
The Issuer hereby irrevocably and unconditionally appoints Clifford Chance Secretaries Limited at its registered office for the time being as its agent for service of process in England in respect of any Proceedings and undertakes that in the event of such agent ceasing so to act it will appoint another person as its agent for that purpose.
 
The Issuer has in the Agency Agreement submitted to the jurisdiction of the English courts and appointed an agent in England for service of process, in terms substantially similar to those set out above.
 
No rights are conferred on any person under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any term of this Note, but this does not affect any right or remedy of any person which exists or is available apart from that Act.
 
DEFINITIONS
 
means an English language certificate issued by a Paying Agent and dated in which it is stated that the bearer of the voting certificate is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and any adjourned meeting in respect of the Notes represented by the certificate;
voting certificate
means an English language document issued by a Paying Agent and dated which:
block voting instruction
 
 
 
 
a means, in respect of any Notes represented by a Global Note, any clearing system on behalf of which the Global Note is held or which is the bearer of the Global Note, in either case whether alone or jointly with any other clearing system(s);
relevant clearing system
means a period of 24 hours including all or part of a day on which banks are open for business both in the place where the meeting is to be held and in each of the places where the Paying Agents have their specified offices (disregarding for this purpose the day on which the meeting is to be held) and that period shall be extended by one period or, to the extent necessary, more periods of 24 hours until there is included all or part of a day on which banks are open for business in all of the places where the Paying Agents have their specified offices; and
24 hours
means a period of 48 hours including all or part of two days on which banks are open for business both in the place where the meeting is to be held and in each of the places where the Paying Agents have their specified offices (disregarding for this purpose the day on which the meeting is to be held) and that period shall be extended by one period or, to the extent necessary, more periods of 24 hours until there is included all or part of two days on which banks are open for business in all of the places where the Paying Agents have their specified offices.
48 hours
 
For the purposes of calculating a period of , no account shall be taken of the day on which a period commences or the day on which a period ends.
clear days
EVIDENCE OF ENTITLEMENT TO ATTEND AND VOTE
 
 
 
 
A Noteholder may require the issue by any Paying Agent of voting certificates and block voting instructions in accordance with the terms of paragraph 3 below.
For the purposes of paragraphs 3(a) and 3(d) below, the Fiscal Agent shall be entitled to rely, without further enquiry, on any information or instructions received from a relevant clearing system and shall have no liability to any Noteholder or other person for any loss, damage, cost, claim or other liability caused by its reliance on those instructions, nor for any failure by a relevant clearing system to deliver information or instructions to the Fiscal Agent.
The holder of any voting certificate or the proxies named in any block voting instruction shall for all purposes in connection with the meeting or adjourned meeting be deemed to be the holder of the Notes to which the voting certificate or block voting instruction relates and the Paying Agent with which the Notes have been deposited or the person holding the Notes to the order or under the control of any Paying Agent shall be deemed for those purposes not to be the holder of those Notes.
 
A holder of a Note in definitive form may obtain a voting certificate in respect of that Note from a Paying Agent (unless the Note is the subject of a block voting instruction which has been issued and is outstanding in respect of the meeting specified in the voting certificate or any adjourned meeting) subject to the holder procuring that the Note is deposited with the Paying Agent or (to the satisfaction of the Paying Agent) is held to its order or under its control or blocked in an account with a relevant clearing system upon terms that the Note will not cease to be deposited or held or blocked until the first to occur of:
 
 
 
A holder of a Note (not being a Note in respect of which instructions have been given to the Fiscal Agent in accordance with paragraph 3(d)) represented by a Global Note may procure the delivery of a voting certificate in respect of that Note by giving
 
notice to the relevant clearing system specifying by name a person (an ) (which need not be the holder himself) to collect the voting certificate and attend and vote at the meeting. The voting certificate will be made available at or shortly before the start of the meeting by the Fiscal Agent against presentation by the Identified Person of the form of identification previously notified by the holder to the relevant clearing system. The relevant clearing system may prescribe forms of identification (including, without limitation, passports) which it considers appropriate for these purposes. Subject to receipt by the Fiscal Agent from the relevant clearing system, no later than 24 hours before the time for which the meeting is convened, of notification of the nominal amount of the Notes to be represented by any voting certificate and the form of identification against presentation of which the voting certificate should be released, the Fiscal Agent shall, without any obligation to make further enquiry, make available voting certificates against presentation of forms of identification corresponding to those notified.
Identified Person
 
A holder of a Note in definitive form may require a Paying Agent to issue a block voting instruction in respect of that Note (unless the Note is the subject of a voting certificate which has been issued and is outstanding in respect of the meeting specified in the block voting instruction or any adjourned meeting) by depositing the Note with the Paying Agent or (to the satisfaction of the Paying Agent) by:
 
 
 
 
 
A holder of a Note (not being a Note in respect of which a voting certificate has been issued) represented by a Global Note may require the Fiscal Agent to issue a block
 
voting instruction in respect of the Note by first instructing the relevant clearing system to procure that the votes attributable to the holder's Note should be cast at the meeting in a particular way in relation to the resolution or resolutions to be put to the meeting. Any such instruction shall be given in accordance with the rules of the relevant clearing system then in effect. Subject to receipt by the Fiscal Agent, no later than 24 hours before the time for which the meeting is convened, of (i) instructions from the relevant clearing system, (ii) notification of the principal amount of the Notes in respect of which instructions have been given and (iii) the manner in which the votes attributable to the Notes should be cast, the Fiscal Agent shall, without any obligation to make further enquiry, attend the meeting and cast votes in accordance with those instructions.
 
 
CONVENING OF MEETINGS, QUORUM, ADJOURNED MEETINGS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the quorum shall be one or more Eligible Persons present and holding or representing in the aggregate not less than two-thirds in principal amount of the Notes for the time being outstanding.
 
 
 
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS AT MEETINGS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without prejudice to the obligations of the proxies named in any block voting instruction, any person entitled to more than one vote need not use all his votes or cast all the votes to which he is entitled in the same way.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Fiscal Agent and the Issuer will comply with the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


