FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20080630171829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
On June 24, 2008, NYSE Euronext, a Delaware corporation ("NYX"), entered into a Shareholders Agreement (the "Shareholders Agreement") with Qatar Investment Authority, a Qatar governmental authority ("QIA"). The Shareholders Agreement represents a strategic partnership between NYX and the State of Qatar to develop the Doha Securities Market ("DSM") as an internationally integrated financial market in the global exchange sector. Pursuant to the terms of the Shareholders Agreement, NYX has agreed to acquire a 25% ownership interest in the DSM for US$250 million in cash. The State of Qatar will retain the remaining 75% ownership of the DSM through QIA. Under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement, NYX will be responsible for providing management services and technology in accordance with terms to be negotiated by the parties and set forth in definitive documentation. The closing of the transaction is expected to take place early during the fourth quarter of 2008, subject to the completion of definitive documentation and obtaining regulatory approvals.
The foregoing description of the Shareholders Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Shareholders Agreement, which will be exhibited to and incorporated by reference within NYX's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008 to be subsequently filed with the SEC. Further, on June 24, 2008, NYX and the State of Qatar issued a joint press release announcing the Shareholders Agreement and its strategic partnership relating to the DSM and jointly participated in a press briefing. A copy of the press release and transcripts of the press briefing are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Doha / New York / Paris, 24 June 2008 - The State of Qatar and NYSE Euronext (NYSE Euronext: NYX) today announced a strategic partnership which will transform the Doha Securities Market ("DSM") into a significant international player in the global exchange space and provide NYSE Euronext with a valuable presence in the Middle East. The closing of the transaction is expected to take place early during the fourth quarter of 2008, subject to the completion of documentation and obtaining non-objection from regulators.
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commenting on today's announcement, His Excellency Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabor Al-Thani, Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Qatar, said:
"This represents a hugely significant development for Doha's financial markets, for the people of Qatar and for the Middle East. We are delighted to partner with NYSE Euronext which has a global reputation for excellence. It's a significant endorsement of Qatar's importance in the world's capital markets and will provide considerable opportunities for our future generations. This partnership lays the foundations for us to build Doha into a world class financial center. Our country's financial markets will be an integral part of a group which links together the world's major trading centers across the US and Europe and now the Middle East."
"Today's announcement represents the cornerstone of Qatar's vision to bring our entire economic infrastructure up to the highest international standards, thereby laying the best possible foundations for the development of this dynamic nation."
Duncan Niederauer, Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext, said: "On behalf of our Board and all my colleagues at NYSE Euronext, I welcome this mutually beneficial strategic partnership with the State of Qatar and the Doha Securities Market. It is a great privilege to align NYSE Euronext with Qatar and Doha's financial marketplace, whose role is increasingly important in the Gulf region and globally. We are greatly appreciative to His Excellency Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabor Al-Thani, His Excellency Yusof Kamal, Dr. Hussain Al-Abdulla and the entire leadership team of the Doha Securities Market for this exciting opportunity, which complements our strategic business goals and benefits our shareholders."
Added NYSE Euronext Deputy CEO Jean-Franois Thodore: "We share the entrepreneurial vision of Qatar and the Doha Securities Market. Our leading technology, focus on innovation and proven expertise will contribute greatly to the development of a world-class marketplace. In addition to proving beneficial to the people and business community of the Middle East, Europe and the United States, this partnership will serve to strengthen the global capital marketplace."
The Strategic Partnership
The strategic partnership between the State of Qatar and NYSE Euronext will transform the DSM into an internationally integrated exchange. It will provide Qatar with total market infrastructure capability and the opportunity to reinforce the country's position as a regional capital market with the introduction to Doha of new trading products, technology and international investors and issuers.
Under terms of the agreement, NYSE Euronext has agreed to purchase a 25% stake in the DSM for US$250 million in cash, the largest participation NYSE Euronext has taken in a foreign exchange. NYSE Euronext will be responsible for providing management services and technology. It will assist in identifying enhancements to the structure for the management of the exchange.
In addition, the collaboration is expected to benefit Qatar with significant intellectual knowledge transfer as NYSE Euronext has undertaken to base a number of its growing Middle East region operational and technology support functions in Doha. As a result, Doha will become a business hub for NYSE Euronext in the Middle East.
Objectives
The objective of the partnership is to develop Qatar's financial markets to best practice international standards, linking the DSM with the world's most important liquidity centres in the US and Europe.
Qatar is expected to be the second-largest economy in the region by 2015. Combining the liquidity and innovation of the DSM with NYSE Euronext, an integrated international exchange offers significant potential for the introduction of new trading products and international members.
A project management team has already been put together to finalize the scope and timetable for the launch of the new market, which will include cash equities, derivatives and other commodity-based trading products and will be adopted by the new DSM board.
Under terms of the agreement, the new venture will adopt NYSE Euronext technology for both cash equities and derivative markets.
The trading currency will be the Qatari Riyal, although it is expected that there will be capabilities to list multi-currency instruments.
The immediate focus for both partners will be to install the optimum management team as quickly as possible. Recruitment of the CEO and other senior officials is already underway.
The new exchange will be working with Qatar's financial regulators to finalize the necessary governance and transparency requirements to ensure DSM conforms to best practice international standards. A further objective of the partnership is to enhance the process of ongoing regulatory reform which is redefining Doha's financial market and to act as an active partner with the new regulator.
Extensive cooperation will continue across all issuers and investors to develop a portfolio of trading products and initiatives across both equities and derivatives which will develop to best possible effect the liquidity within the Doha market.
Further details of the above process will be made public when appropriate. The State of Qatar, however, views it as important to be able to allow the country's citizens to benefit directly in the success of this initiative and plans to sell a minority share stake of the DSM in a domestic IPO. The IPO process will be undertaken within the next three years.
In addition to cash equities and derivatives, the DSM also intends to enhance the post-trade infrastructure in Qatar in line with international standards. The DSM will continue in the short-term with its vertically integrated clearing and settlement model, although the exchange intends to link up with international clearing and settlement houses as the partnership progresses.
Both parties are committed to upholding the existing core values of the Doha market: a commitment to transparency, liquidity and fairness.
For further information, please contact:
For the State of Qatar and the Doha Securities Market:
 
For NYSE Euronext
 
 
 
 
Notes to Editors:
About the Doha Securities Market:
The Doha Securities Market (DSM) is the principal stock market of Qatar. Established in 1995, it officially commenced operations in May 1997.
The DSM has grown to become one of the leading stock markets in the Middle East. It currently has 43 listed companies and its market capitalization has climbed to QR500 billion (US$136 billion) from QR18.8 billion (US$5.2 billion) in 2000.
The primary aim of the DSM is to support Qatar's economy by giving investors a platform through which they can trade fairly and efficiently. The DSM also provides the public with access to information, oversees key participants in the securities world, ensures correct disclosure of information, and enforces securities regulations. The DSM is regulated by the Qatar Financial Markets Authority. The DSM moved to a fully electronic trading platform in March 2002. Since 2005, non-Qataris have been allowed to invest in all companies listed on the DSM. For more information, please visit www.dsm.com.qa.
About NYSE Euronext:
NYSE Euronext operates the world's leading and most liquid exchange group, and seeks to provide the highest levels of quality, customer choice and innovation. Its family of exchanges, located in six countries, includes the New York Stock Exchange, the world's largest cash equities market; Euronext, the Eurozone's largest cash equities market; Liffe, Europe's leading derivatives exchange by value of trading; and NYSE Arca Options, one of the fastest growing U.S. options trading platforms. NYSE Euronext offers a diverse array of financial products and services for issuers, investors and financial institutions in cash equities, options and derivatives, ETFs, bonds, market data, and commercial technology solutions. NYSE Euronext's nearly 4,000 listed companies represent a combined $ 30.9/  19.8 trillion in total global market capitalization (as of April 30, 2008), more than four times that of any other exchange group. NYSE Euronext's equity exchanges transact an average daily trading value of approximately $161.9 / 106.9 billion (as of April 30, 2008), which represents more than one-third of the worlds cash equities trading. NYSE Euronext is part of the S&P 500 index and the only exchange operator in the S&P 100 index. For more information, please visit www.nyx.com.
About Qatar :
The State of Qatar is an emirate occupying the Qatar Peninsula, located on the west coast of the Arabian Gulf.
Qatar is a constitutional monarchy, ruled by the Al-Thani family and a member of both the United Nations and the League of Arab States. The economy has grown strongly in recent years, and current GDP is estimated at some $64bn, up from $8bn in 1995. The economy is forecast to grow at least 10% per annum for the next 5 years, with further growth of at least 7% per annum beyond 2013.
This growth is due in part to the rising energy prices and higher exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG). As much as one third of the world's total gas reserves lies within Qatar. The country's government uses the money it obtains from selling this resource to develop Qatar's infrastructure, including education and health facilities. Some $130bn is earmarked for investment in those sectors over the next five to six years.
However, the government is keen to diversify away from depending on natural resources, and has established a number of organisations to ensure the security of future generations by diversifying income streams, as well as seeking to stimulate the private sector. Economic growth has been further strengthened by the benign economic conditions, including respect for the rule of law, stability, and the encouragement of private enterprise. The State now has 743,000 inhabitants (2004 population census), with 83% of inhabitants residing in the capital city, Doha, and its main suburb, Al-Rayyan.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NYSE Euronext's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are based on NYSE Euronext's current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause NYSE Euronext's results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: NYSE Euronext's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk and U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NYSE Euronext's reference document for 2007 ("document de rfrence") filed with the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers (Registered on May 15, 2008 under No. R. 08-054), 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NYSE Euronext that the projections will prove to be correct. This press release speaks only as of this date. NYSE Euronext disclaims any duty to update the information herein.

Exhibit 99.2
Press Briefing: 24 June 2008, Doha, Qatar
The State of Qatar and NYSE Euronext Strategic Partnership
Remarks of
His Excellency Yousef Hussain Kamal, the Minister of Finance of Qatar
[Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. Assalamu'alaikum warahmatullahita'ala wabarakatuh and good afternoon.]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[ends]
Remarks of
Dr. Hussain Al-Abdulla
[Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. Assalamu'alaikum warahmatullahita'ala wabarakatuh and good afternoon.]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[ends]
Remarks of Duncan Niederauer, Chief Executive Officer, NYSE Euronext
Thank you, Dr. Hussain and honored guests.
On behalf of our Board and all my colleagues at NYSE Euronext, I welcome this mutually beneficial strategic partnership with the State of Qatar and the Doha Securities Market.
It is a great privilege to align NYSE Euronext with Qatar and the Doha's financial marketplace, whose role is vital and growing in the Gulf region and globally.
We are greatly appreciative to His Excellency Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr Al-Thani, Dr. Hussain and the entire team of Doha Securities Market for this exciting opportunity
Our announcement breaks new ground in many ways. For instance, this partnership is the largest that NYSE Euronext has taken in an equity participation in an overseas exchange and also represents one of our more significant technology engagements to date.
Qatar is already widely recognised for its success in creating an open, vibrant and competitive environment, encouraging private enterprise, fostering innovation and promoting overseas investment.
As the world's leading, most diverse and most technologically advanced global exchange group, we have long recognised the importance and huge potential of the Middle East region.
We are delighted to achieve our aim of expanding into the region through this partnership with the State of Qatar.
Our technology and expertise will contribute to the vision that has been born of this historic agreement.
 
Qatar is in the midst of a spectacular transition to become a knowledge-based and diversified economy rather than one reliant on its natural resources of oil and gas.
The country's natural resources, which include one of the world's largest gas reserves, are the foundations of a strong and sustainable economy, however Qatar's vision has long been much more expansive and far-sighted.
It is committed to diversification, with a target that by 2020 Qatar will no longer be dependent on its income from oil and gas.
This partnership fits with our long-term strategic business goals and benefits our shareholders. We are very proud to be associated with Qatar and the Doha financial market.
I would also like to thank Qatar for its support in encouraging the United Nations to recognize World Autism Day. The efforts of Ambassador Al-Nasser, Permanent Representative to the UN of the State of Qatar, were exemplary.
The Leadership of Qatar and her Highness Sheikha Mozahon on the important issue of autism is contributing to the well-being of people around the world.
We will do our utmost to fulfil our obligations and responsibilities toward making this transaction successfulto contributing to the well-being of the people of Qatarand to realize the vision of Qatar and Doha in the global financial marketplace.
Thank you.
Remarks of Jean-Franois Thodore, Deputy Chief Executive, NYSE Euronext
I would like to add my thanks to that of Duncan, to say again how appreciative we are to His Excellency Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabor Al-Thani, His Excellency Yusof Kamal, Dr. Hussain Al-Abdulla and the entire management team of the Doha Securities Market for this very exciting opportunity to develop this market together with them, linking it to the major trading centres of US and Europe.
We are very proud to have been chosen by the State of Qatar to further develop the cash equity and derivatives segments of the Doha Securities Market, already one of the leading exchanges in the Middle East.
We consider this market has huge potential for growth, as Qatar is the fastest-growing economy in the Middle East. This is a great opportunity for NYSE Euronext to take part in reshaping and developing this market through a technology partnership and a significant equity participation.
We will provide Qatar with our skills, expertise and intellectual knowledge to develop their financial marketplace in three major ways. In terms of:
Technology. In order for the world's financial community to be able to access the Doha market we will provide connectivity solutions. We will also provide state-of-the-art electronic trading platforms for the cash equities and derivatives markets.
Secondly, in terms of product development. We will enlarge the product offering of the Doha Market so that it meets international investors' needs.
And thirdly, in terms of management; NYSE Euronext will assist in identifying a new management team and structure to ensure the successful development of the Doha Exchange.
To show our commitment to this venture our Board of Directors has agreed that we take a 25% equity stake in the Doha Securities Market for $250 million in cash, the largest stake NYSE Euronext has ever taken in an overseas exchange.
Through this partnership we look forward to building a strong, long-lasting and friendly relationship with the Doha Exchange which will see it transform, from a successful local market, into a significant global player for the benefit of the people of Qatar, the Middle East and the wider global financial community.


