FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20081031171420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 30, 2008, LIFFE Administration and Management ("LIFFE"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NYSE Euronext and a UK Recognised Investment Exchange, entered into a Clearing Relationship Agreement ("CRA") with LCH.Clearnet Limited ("LCH"), a UK Recognised Clearing House.
The CRA provides for LIFFE to become central counterparty and to earn clearing revenues in respect of contracts entered into by clearing members on the LIFFE market and for LCH to provide certain clearing services to LIFFE. The operative terms of the CRA will come into effect simultaneously on March 16, 2009, or thereafter following the fulfilment of certain conditions precedent, subject to a longstop date of September 30, 2009. The conditions precedent include any necessary approvals of the arrangements by the parties' regulators.
In consideration for the receipt of clearing services from LCH under the CRA, LIFFE agrees to pay LCH a base annual fee of 29,500,000 plus certain amounts to reflect inflation and an increase in the volume of trades on the LIFFE market over time. In addition, LIFFE agrees to provide LCH with certain dependent services to enable it to perform its obligations under the CRA. The primary obligation of LCH under the CRA is to accept the novation from LIFFE of the defaulting contracts of a LIFFE clearing member and to manage such member's positions under its default rules. Further, LCH will set minimum margin requirements for members; collect margins on LIFFE's behalf; and make and receive payments through its established PPS payment infrastructure. LCH will also collect member fees on behalf of LIFFE and manage the collateral which support the positions of members on the LIFFE market. The CRA provides for the agreement of binding service levels prior to commencement and contains customary warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations.
LCH is appointed as the exclusive provider of the services covered by the CRA wherever LIFFE acts as central counterparty to its members. LIFFE is otherwise free to appoint a third party to provide central counterparty and other clearing services to its members, provided that LCH benefits from certain preferred supplier arrangements. LCH's provision of services to LIFFE is on a non-exclusive basis. LCH is bound to clear new products for LIFFE that meet certain criteria.
LIFFE or LCH may terminate the CRA on one year's notice, subject to certain early termination penalties. In order to minimize the disruption to LIFFE markets upon the termination of the agreement, whether for cause or otherwise, the CRA includes an exit migration mechanism.
The foregoing description of the CRA does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to full text of the CRA, which will be exhibited to and incorporated by reference to NYSE Euronext's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 to be subsequently filed with the SEC.
The press release announcing the transaction is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.
On October 30, 2008, LIFFE Administration and Management ("LIFFE"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NYSE Euronext and a UK Recognised Investment Exchange, entered into a Termination Agreement ("TA") with LCH. The TA provides notice of termination of the current clearing arrangements between LIFFE and LCH and requires LIFFE to pay to LCH a sum of approximately 260,000,000 in connection with this termination (plus VAT if chargeable). The TA also provides for the settlement of any liabilities of the parties under the current clearing terms. The operative terms of the TA, including the obligation to pay the termination sum, will come into effect simultaneously on March 16, 2009, or thereafter following the fulfillment of certain conditions precedent, subject to a longstop date of September 30, 2009. The conditions precedent include any necessary approvals of the arrangements by the parties' regulators.
The foregoing description of the TA does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to full text of the TA, which will be exhibited to and incorporated by reference to NYSE Euronext's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 to be subsequently filed with the SEC.
The press release announcing the transaction is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.
On October 27, 2008, Euronext Amsterdam N.V., a subsidiary of NYSE Euronext (Euronext Amsterdam), entered into an employment agreement with Joost van der Does de Willebois. Mr. van der Does de Willebois' previous employment agreement dated as of September 8, 2004 with Euronext Amsterdam expired in accordance with its terms.
The new employment agreement provides for, among other things, that Mr. van der Does de Willebois shall (1) hold the position of chairman of the management board of Euronext Amsterdam; member of the management board of Euronext N.V., a subsidiary of NYSE Euronext; and a member of the management committee of NYSE Euronext; (2) be paid an annual salary, which for 2008 will be 400,000; (3) be eligible for an annual bonus subject to the discretion of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee and/or the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext, provided that at least 50% of the bonus shall be paid in cash and no more than 50% of the bonus shall be awarded in the form of equity compensation; (4) participation in health and other plans generally offered to employees. Mr. van der Does de Willebois is also entitled to reimbursement of certain expenses and is provided with a car and driver.
The agreement contains provisions restricting the use of confidential information and requiring a one-year non-compete and a one-year non-solicit after termination .
The agreement has an indefinite term, but is terminated in any event on the date Mr. van der Does de Willebois reaches the age of 65, and may be terminated by either party upon four months' notice (in the case of Euronext Amsterdam) or two months' notice (in the case of Mr. van der Does de Willebois). For termination other than for urgent cause (as defined in article 7:678 of the Dutch civil code) or a change in circumstance attributable to Mr. van der Does de Willebois (as defined in article 7:685 of the Dutch civil code), compensation for termination will not exceed the gross yearly salary and any bonus that was earned but not yet paid will become payable.
The foregoing description of the employment agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the employment agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
THE UNDERSIGNED:
 
and
 
The Company and the Managing Director shall jointly be referred to as the "" and individually as a "".
Parties
Party
WHEREAS:
 
 
 
 
page 1 of 9 pages
 
DECLARE AND HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 2 of 9 pages
 
 
The Managing Director's salary shall be determined annually by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee and/or the NYSE Euronext Board of Directors. For the year 2008 the salary of the Management Director shall amount to EUR 400,000 gross per year, which shall be paid by the Company to the Managing Director in fourteen (14) equal instalments, of which (i) twelve (12) instalments shall be paid at the end of each month; (ii) one (1) instalment shall be paid as a 13
th
month salary at the end of the month of December; and (iii) one (1) instalment shall be paid as a holiday allowance at the end of the month of April. If the Managing Director receives income from any other company that forms part of the group of companies to which the Company belongs, this income shall be deducted from the Management Director's salary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 3 of 9 pages
 
The Managing Director shall be entitled to twenty-five (25) business day's vacation per year. In taking vacation, the Managing Director shall duly observe the interests of the Company. The provisions regarding reduction of working hours () as included in the personnel manual of the Company (.'), which is attached to this Employment Agreement as (the ""), are not applicable to the Managing Director.
ATV
handbook personnel Euronext Amsterdam N.V
Annex 2
Personnel Manual
 
 
 
 
 
For the performance of his duties, the Company shall provide the Managing Director with a lease car in accordance with the applicable car lease scheme of the Company (.), which scheme is attached to this Employment Agreement as (the ""). Furthermore, for the performance of his duties in and from Amsterdam the Managing Director may benefit of the use of a (company) chauffeur.
Autolease-regeling Euronext Amsterdam N.V
Annex 3
Car Lease Scheme
 
All the fringe benefits as mentioned in the Personnel Manual shall apply to the Managing Director, this in so far as not provided otherwise in this Employment Agreement.
 
page 4 of 9 pages
 
In the event of sickness as defined in section 7:629 of the Dutch Civil Code, the provisions as set out in the Personnel Manual shall apply.
 
The Managing Director declares to be familiar with the prevailing pension scheme of the Company as stipulated in the Personnel Manual. Furthermore, the Parties agree (i) to fulfil the obligations arising from such pension scheme; and (ii) that the pensionable salary shall be equal to the salary amount mentioned in article 3 of this Employment Agreement. If the pension scheme of the Company changes during the term of this Employment Agreement, the consequences of such change for the Managing Director shall be discussed in advance with the Managing Director, taking due account of the policy of the Companies.
 
The Managing Director shall, throughout the duration of this Employment Agreement and after this Employment Agreement has been terminated for whatever reason, refrain from disclosing in any manner to any individual any information of a confidential nature concerning the Company or other companies affiliated to the Company, which has become known to the Managing Director as a result of his employment with the Company and of which the Managing Director knows or should have known to be of a confidential nature. Moreover, the Managing Director shall also take all steps to prevent this information from being used by third parties.
 
The Managing Director shall not have or keep in his possession any documents and/or correspondence and/or data carriers and/or copies thereof in any manner whatsoever, which belong to the Company or to other companies affiliated to the Company and which have been made available to the Managing Director as a result of his employment, except in so far as and for as long as is necessary for the performance of his duties for the Company. At termination of this Employment Agreement or upon suspension of the Managing Director from active duty for whatever reason, the Managing Director shall be obliged to return to the Company immediately, without necessitating the need for any request to be made in this regard, any and all such documents and/or correspondence and/or data carriers and/or copies thereof.
 
page 5 of 9 pages
 
 
 
 
The Managing Director shall throughout the duration of this Employment Agreement and for a period of one (1) year after termination thereof not (i) engage, (ii) employ, (iii) solicit or (iv) contact, with a view to hiring or engaging, employees of the Company or any of its affiliated companies.
 
In the event the Managing Director breaches the obligations as laid down in articles 11, 12, 13.1, 13.2 and/or 14 of this Employment Agreement, the Managing Director shall contrary to section 7:650, subs 3, 4 and 5 of the Dutch Civil Code, without notice of default being required, pay to the Company for each such breach a penalty equal to an amount of EUR 50,000, pIus a penalty of EUR 10,000 for each day such breach occurs and continues. Alternatively, the Company shall be entitled to claim full damages.
 
The Managing Director shall refrain from accepting remunerated or non-remunerated work activities with or for third parties or from doing business for his own account without the prior written consent of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of NYSE Euronext.
 
page 6 of 9 pages
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 7 of 9 pages
 
 
 
Employment Agreement has been executed in twofold by the Parties hereto:
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
page 8 of 9 pages
 
Seen and approved:
 
page 9 of 9 pages

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
NYSE Euronext (NYX) today announces that its derivatives subsidiary, LIFFE Administration & Management ("LIFFE"), is to take full responsibility for clearing activities in its London market, subject to regulatory approval, with the target of beginning operations in the first quarter of 2009.
Amsterdam, Brussels, Paris, Lisbon, London, New York, 31 October 2008 
To achieve this, LIFFE will become a self-clearing Recognised Investment Exchange and will outsource certain clearing functions to LCH.Clearnet Ltd. ("LCH.Clearnet"). LIFFE has entered into binding agreements with LCH.Clearnet to terminate its current clearing arrangements and to establish the new arrangements, known as "LiffeClear".
As part of the termination of its current clearing arrangements with LCH.Clearnet, NYSE Euronext will make a one-time 260 million payment to LCH.Clearnet. It is expected that the transaction will have a positive impact on earnings from 2009.
Hugh Freedberg, Group Executive Vice President and Head of Global Derivatives at NYSE Euronext, said: "
LiffeClear creates a new clearing solution that better suits LIFFE in today's market environment. For NYSE Euronext, LiffeClear will enable competition against LIFFE's vertically-integrated international peers on a more level playing field. For LCH.Clearnet, it means no disruption to its default backing arrangements and reaffirms its long-term relationship with LIFFE. Together, NYSE Euronext and LCH.Clearnet have created new, efficient and cost effective clearing arrangements that will benefit members and provide a strong basis for future innovation."
Under the LiffeClear arrangements, LIFFE will become central counterparty to its own contracts. The clearing guarantee arrangements and related risk functions will be outsourced to LCH.Clearnet, which will remain responsible for defaulting member positions, applying LCH.Clearnet regulation and resources to the resolution of such a default.
For clearing members, there will only be de minimis operational changes. Clearing members will benefit from the investments LIFFE will be making in its post-trade services, from increased innovation by LIFFE and from the stronger competitive offering that LiffeClear will afford LIFFE, all without losing the fundamental backing of LCH.Clearnet.
LiffeClear will enable NYSE Euronext, though LIFFE, to enter the clearing business, allow direct investment in clearing technology and services, and improve both the opportunity to innovate and time to market for innovation. In addition, control over its
clearing operations will position LIFFE to collaborate closely with NYSE Liffe, the new NYSE Euronext U.S. futures affiliate.
LIFFE and LCH.Clearnet have been liaising with FSA with respect to the new clearing arrangements. Commencement of LiffeClear operations remains subject to FSA's approval.
 
 
About NYSE Euronext
is the world's leading, most liquid and diverse exchange group. It offers a broad and growing array of financial products and services in cash equities, futures, options, exchange-traded products, bonds, market data, and commercial technology solutions, all designed to meet the evolving needs of issuers, investors and financial institutions. Spanning multiple asset classes and six countries, NYSE Euronext's exchanges include the New York Stock Exchange, Liffe, Euronext and NYSE Arca. With more than 6,500 listed issues, more than any other exchange group, trading on NYSE Euronext's equity markets represents more than one-third of the world's cash equities volume. NYSE Euronext is part of the S&P 500 index and the only exchange operator in the S&P 100 index. For more information, please visit .
NYSE Euronext (NYX)
www.nyx.com
is the global derivatives business of NYSE Euronext. LIFFE offers an unrivalled range of global futures and options products, which are made available to customers in over thirty countries worldwide on its state-of-the-art trading platform, LIFFE CONNECT. Every day business in derivatives on equities and interest rates, indices and commodities with an underlying value of over 1,700 billion changes hands on LIFFE  or 23m every second  making LIFFE the world's second largest derivatives exchange, by value of transacted business. Since 2004, average annual growth in volume stands at 20%.
LIFFE


