FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20090430185251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 30, 2009, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing its results of operations for, and its financial condition as of the end of, the first quarter 2009.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK  April 30, 2009  NYSE Euronext (NYX) today reported net income of $104 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2009, compared to net income of $230 million, or $0.87 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2008. Included in these GAAP results are $23 million of pre-tax merger expenses and exit costs for the first quarter of 2009, and $17 million for the first quarter of 2008.
Pro forma non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of 2009 was $112 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, compared to net income of $240 million, or $0.90 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2008. Pro forma non-GAAP results exclude activity assessment and Section 31 fees, merger expenses and exit costs, as well as favorable discrete tax credits. A full reconciliation of these non-GAAP results is included in the attached tables.
"Since we reported record results in the first quarter of 2008, the financial services landscape has undergone a significant transformation," said Duncan L. Niederauer, CEO, NYSE Euronext. "Despite adverse market conditions, we have stayed focused on executing our two pronged strategy, to broaden and diversify our streams of revenue, and at the same time, reduce our costs and make us more efficient, streamlined and agile. With each new quarter, we continue to make steady progress on both fronts, and I am confident that as market conditions stabilize we will be well positioned for growth."
The table below summarizes our first quarter pro forma non-GAAP results.
 
 
Financial highlights on a pro forma non-GAAP basis include:
 
 
 
 
"In the first quarter, we accelerated our cost efficiency initiatives, which resulted in a $51 million decline in fixed costs compared to the fourth quarter of 2008," said Michael S. Geltzeiler, Group Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, NYSE Euronext. "Furthermore we achieved our $120 million first quarter target for run-rate technology savings, we already achieved the $120 million in cost savings related to our acquisition of Amex, and we have significantly increased the pace of our restructuring plans in the U.S. and Europe. Based on our first quarter results and an accelerated company-wide focus on expense rationalization efforts, we are increasing our cost savings guidance by an incremental $100 million to be realized in 2009."
Other Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Market and Business Summary
U.S. Cash Equities
 
 
 
European Cash Equities
 
 
 
Global Exchange Traded Products
 
 
 
 
European Derivatives
 
 
U.S. Derivatives
 
 
 
Global Listings
NYSE Technologies
 
 
 
A presentation and live audio webcast of the first quarter 2009 earnings conference call will be available on the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website,
Analyst/Investor/Media Call: April 30, 2009 at 8:00am (NY/EDT)/2:00pm (Paris/CET)
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
. Those wishing to listen to the live conference via telephone should dial-in at least ten minutes before the call begins. An audio replay of the conference call will be available approximately one hour after the call on the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website,
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
or by dial-in beginning approximately two hours following the conclusion of the live call.
Live Dial-in Information:
: 800.510.0219
United States
: 617.614.3451
International
: 15588525
Passcode
Replay Dial-in Information:
: 888.286.8010
United States
: 617.801.6888
International
: 48841000
Passcode
The results of operations of Euronext N.V. for the three months ended March 31, 2009 are reported under U.S. GAAP under the caption "European Operations" in the accompanying tables. Questions regarding Euronext N.V.'s results should be directed to Investor Relations (contact details provided below).
NYSE Euronext net revenues (defined as total revenues less direct transaction costs comprised of Section 31 fees, liquidity payments, and routing and clearing fees) from its primary business activities are represented below as a percentage of total net revenues for the first quarter:
Note: 
-- Derivatives trading accounts for 24%
-- European cash trading accounts for 17%
-- U.S. cash trading accounts for 9%
-- Market data accounts for 17%
-- Listing accounts for 16%
-- Software and technology services accounts for 7%
To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position, or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses and exit costs, other non-recurring items, and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this release.
 
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is the world's most diverse exchange group, offering a broad and growing array of financial products and services in Europe and the United States that include cash equities, futures, options, exchange-traded products, bonds, market data, and commercial technology solutions. With over 8,000 listed issues globally, NYSE Euronext's equities markets -- the New York Stock Exchange, Euronext, NYSE Arca, and NYSE Amex -- represent nearly 40% of the world's cash equities trading volume, the most liquidity of any global exchange group. NYSE Euronext also operates NYSE Liffe, the leading European derivatives business and the world's second largest derivatives business by value of trading. NYSE Euronext offers comprehensive global commercial technology, connectivity, and market data products and services through its innovative trading solutions unit, NYSE Technologies. NYSE Euronext is part of the S&P 500 index and the only exchange operator in the S&P 100 index. For more information, please visit: .
www.nyx.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NYSE Euronext's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are based on NYSE Euronext's current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause NYSE Euronext's results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: NYSE Euronext's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk and U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NYSE Euronext's reference document for 2008 ("document de rfrence") filed with the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers (Registered on April 28, 2009 under No. R. 09-031), 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NYSE Euronext that the projections will prove to be correct. This press release speaks only as of this date. NYSE Euronext disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
CONTACT: Media
+31.20.550.4488 (Amsterdam)
+32.2.509.1392 (Brussels)
+351.217.900.029 (Lisbon)
+44.20.7379.2789 (London)
+1.212.656.2140 (New York)
+33.1.49.27.11.33 (Paris)
CONTACT: Investor Relations
+1.212.656.5700 (New York)
+33.1.49.27.58.60 (Paris)
 
 
 
The pro forma non-GAAP results of NYSE Euronext include the following adjustments to the GAAP results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pro forma non-GAAP results of NYSE Euronext include the following adjustments to the GAAP results:
 
 
 
 
 
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please refer to footnotes on the following page.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


