FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20090211122834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2009, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing its results of operations for, and its financial condition as of the end of, the fourth quarter 2008 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders is scheduled for Thursday, April 2, 2009, at 8:00 a.m., New York time, at 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005. The record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, or any adjournments or postponements thereof, is the close of business on February 10, 2009.
Additionally, in the press release dated February 9, 2009, NYSE Euronext announced the declaration of a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share through 2009. The cash dividend is payable on March 31, 2009 to shareholders of record as of March 13, 2009.
NYSE Euronext does not intend for Items 2.02 or 8.01 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK  Feb. 9, 2009  NYSE Euronext (NYSE: NYX) today reported a net loss of ($1,338) million, or ($5.06) per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2008, and ($738) million, or ($2.78) per diluted share, for the full year 2008. The net loss for the fourth quarter and full year 2008 includes a pre-tax $1,590 million non-cash charge, primarily for the impairment of certain goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets related to the merger of NYSE Group and Euronext. The charge adjusts the carrying values of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets to their estimated fair values. The impairment was driven primarily by adverse equity market conditions that have caused a material decline in industry market multiples in the latter part of 2008. This charge has no impact on debt covenants, cash flows, or normal day-to-day business operations. These results are presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Pro-forma non-GAAP net income in the fourth quarter was $137 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, compared to $0.65 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2007. On the same basis, net income for the full year 2008 was $763 million, or $2.87 per diluted share, an increase of 9% compared to 2007. Pro forma non-GAAP results exclude activity assessment and Section 31 fees, merger expenses and exit costs, impairment charges, gains on sale of businesses and equity investments and other non-recurring items. A full reconciliation of these non-GAAP results is included in the attached tables. Financial highlights include:
 
 
 
The table below summarizes the pro forma non-GAAP results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2008 and 2007.
 
"During this period of unprecedented market dislocation and uncertainty, we continue to focus on executing and delivering against our key strategic initiatives which will drive our long-term growth," said Duncan L. Niederauer, CEO, NYSE Euronext. "We recorded revenue growth, grew pro forma earnings per share by 9% in 2008, continued to reduce fixed operating expenses as a result of our non-technology and technology-related savings initiatives and we implemented a new NYSE market model which has stabilized our market share in the U.S. In light of challenging market conditions, we have decided to refrain from stock repurchases at this time, while keeping the Board authorization in place. At the same time, the Board has decided to maintain the $0.30 quarterly dividend for our shareholders through 2009. With these two actions, we are attempting to strike the right balance between capital management and shareholder value."
Fixed operating expenses from continuing operations were $473 million, compared to $447 million for the fourth quarter of 2007. For the full year 2008, total fixed operating expenses were $1,742 million, compared to $1,709 million in the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency translation, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, and selected strategic initiatives, fixed operating expenses in the fourth quarter decreased $61 million, or 14%, compared to fourth quarter of 2007. On the same basis, fixed operating expenses for the full year 2008 decreased $146 million, or 9%, compared to 2007. Fixed operating expenses are defined as operating expenses less merger expenses and exit costs, impairment charges, direct transaction costs, and excluding regulatory fine income. A full reconciliation of these non-GAAP results is included in the attached tables.
"In the fourth quarter, we continued to focus on driving the long-term growth of our franchise through investment in new initiatives and the integration of Amex into our operations," said Michael S. Geltzeiler, Group Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, NYSE Euronext. "At the same time that we are investing in growth initiatives, we are accelerating our focus to pull costs out of our operations and deliver against our efficiency initiatives, as reflected by the $146 million decrease in pro forma fixed operating expenses compared to 2007. The non-cash impairment charge brings our book value for the Euronext transaction in line with our fair value, which has been impacted by industry-wide multiple compression. Although the outlook is challenging and competitive pressures are increasing, our European revenues grew 13% to $1.8 billion in 2008."
Other Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business and Market Summary
 
U.S. Cash Equities
 
 
 
 
 
 
European Cash Equities
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global Exchange Traded Products
 
 
 
 
 
European Derivatives
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Derivatives
 
 
 
 
 
Global Listings
 
 
 
NYSE Technologies (formerly NYSE Euronext Advanced Trading Solutions Business)
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSE Regulation
 
Analyst/Investor/Media Call: Feb. 9, 8:00 am (NY/EST)/2:00 pm (Paris/CET)
A presentation and live audio webcast of the fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call will be available on the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website, . Those wishing to listen to the live conference via telephone should dial-in at least ten minutes before the call begins. An audio replay of the conference call will be available
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
approximately one hour after the call on the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website, or by dial-in beginning approximately two hours following the conclusion of the live call.
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
Live Dial-in Information:
: 800.901.5217
United States
: 617.786.2964
International
: 23774007
Passcode
Replay Dial-in Information:
: 888.286.8010
United States
: 617.801.6888
International
: 32531565
Passcode
The results of operations of Euronext N.V. for the three months ended Dec. 31, 2008 are reported under U.S. GAAP under the caption "European Operations" in the accompanying tables. Questions regarding Euronext N.V.'s results should be directed to Investor Relations (contact details provided below).
NYSE Euronext net revenues (defined as total revenues less direct transaction costs comprised of Section 31 fees, liquidity payments, and routing and clearing fees) from its primary business activities are represented below as a percentage of total net revenues for the fourth quarter:
Note:
 
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position, or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses and exit costs, impairment charges and other non-recurring items, and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this release.
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is the world's leading, most liquid and diverse exchange group. It offers a broad and growing array of financial products and services in cash equities, futures, options, exchange-traded products, bonds, market data, and commercial technology solutions, all designed to meet the evolving needs of issuers, investors and financial institutions. Spanning multiple asset classes and six countries, NYSE Euronext's exchanges include the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Liffe, the leading European derivatives exchange by value of trading, Euronext and NYSE Arca. With more than 6,500 listed issues, more than any other exchange group, trading on NYSE Euronext's equity markets represents more than one-third of the world's cash equities volume. NYSE Euronext is part of the S&P 500 index and the only exchange operator in the S&P 100 index. For more information, please visit www.nyx.com.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NYSE Euronext's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are based on NYSE Euronext's current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause NYSE Euronext's results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: NYSE Euronext's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk and U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NYSE Euronext's reference document for 2007 ("document de rfrence") filed with the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers (Registered on May 15, 2008 under No. R. 08-054), 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NYSE Euronext that the projections will prove to be correct. This press release speaks only as of this date. NYSE Euronext disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
 
 
 
The pro forma non-GAAP results of NYSE Euronext include the following adjustments to the GAAP results:
 
 
 
The pro forma non-GAAP results of NYSE Euronext include the following adjustments to the GAAP results:
 
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please refer to footnotes on the following page.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figures for Euronext present the operating companies listed on Eurolist, Alternext, and Free Market, and do not include closed-end funds, ETFs and structured product (warrants and certificates). As of December 31, 2008, 128 companies were listed on Alternext, 313 on Free Market and 396 ETFs were listed on NextTrack.
Source: NYSE Euronext


