FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20091030172442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 30, 2009, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing its results of operations for, and its financial condition as of the end of, the third quarter 2009.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Conference Call, Friday, October 30, 2009 at 8:00 a.m. (New York, EDT)/1:00 p.m. (Paris, CET)
NEW YORK  October 30, 2009  NYSE Euronext (NYX) today reported net income of $125 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2009, compared to net income of $174 million, or $0.66 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2008. Third quarter 2009 GAAP results include the impact from merger expenses and exit costs, the impact of the disposition of Hugin Group B.V., the sale of our investment in BM&F Bovespa and a fair value adjustment to our investment in BIDS Holdings, L.P. Pro forma non-GAAP diluted earnings per share excluding these items was $0.53 in the third quarter of 2009, compared to $0.72 in the third quarter of 2008.
"We continue to see stabilization in our core businesses and significant progress on our new initiatives," said Duncan L. Niederauer, CEO, NYSE Euronext. "We have successfully maintained market share in our U.S. (NYSE) and European cash markets and have grown market share in U.S. equity options. We have seen a strong increase in new issuances, where we lead the U.S. in both IPOs and secondaries. We significantly enhanced our global derivatives franchise with today's announced semi-mutualization of our U.S. futures exchange. In addition, we announced a similar semi-mutualization of our NYSE Amex equity options business, launched NYSE Liffe Clearing in Europe and established New York Portfolio Clearing, a joint venture with DTCC. Lastly, our announced acquisition of NYFIX will greatly expand our NYSE Technologies product offering and client base."
The table below summarizes our pro forma non-GAAP results:
 
 
Michael S. Geltzeiler, Group Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, NYSE Euronext, commented, "Despite lower overall trading volumes, the contribution of NYSE Liffe Clearing revenue during the quarter drove higher net revenues and earnings per share compared to the second quarter. Additionally, we continue to focus on initiatives to reduce our fixed cost base. Underlying fixed operating expenses through the third quarter, excluding the impact of M&A, foreign exchange fluctuations and investments in new businesses, were down $121 million, or 10% compared to the same period last year. With the anniversary of the Amex acquisition, we expect our fourth quarter fixed operating expenses to be considerably below prior year levels and will end the year below our full-year 2009 fixed cost guidance of $1,728 million."
Pro forma non-GAAP net income for the third quarter of 2009 was $138 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, compared to net income of $192 million, or $0.72 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2008. Pro forma non-GAAP results for the third quarter of 2009 exclude $8 million in merger expenses and exit costs. The results also exclude the impact of the disposition of Hugin Group B.V., the sale of our investment in BM&F Bovespa and a fair value adjustment to our investment in BIDS Holdings, L.P. Pro forma non-GAAP results for the third quarter of 2008 exclude $30 million in pre-tax merger expenses and exit costs, primarily severance. In addition, pro forma non-GAAP results also exclude activity assessment and Section 31 fees.
1
A full reconciliation of our pro forma non-GAAP results is included in the attached tables.
Financial highlights on a pro forma non-GAAP basis include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Market and Business Summary
Global Derivatives Markets
 
European Derivatives
 
 
 
 
U.S. Derivatives
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global Cash Markets
 
U.S. Cash Equities
 
 
 
European Cash Equities
 
 
 
Exchange Traded Products and Global Indexes
 
 
 
Global Listings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Technology Services
 
 
 
 
Analyst/Investor/Media Call: October 30, 2009 at 8:00 a.m. (NY/EDT)/1:00 p.m. (Paris/CET)
A presentation and live audio webcast of the third quarter 2009 earnings conference call will be available on the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website, . Those wishing to listen to the live conference via telephone should dial-in at least ten minutes before the call begins. An audio replay of the conference call will be available approximately one hour after the call on the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website, or by dial-in beginning approximately two hours following the conclusion of the live call.
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
Live Dial-in Information:
: 800.706.7745
United States
: 617.614.3472
International
: 26616734
Passcode
Replay Dial-in Information:
: 888.286.8010
United States
: 617.801.6888
International
: 34538720
Passcode
To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position, or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses, exit costs and other non-recurring items, and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this release.
NYSE Euronext Earnings News Release with Tables and Operating Data
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is a leading global operator of financial markets and provider of innovative trading technologies. The company's exchanges in Europe and the United States trade equities, futures, options, fixed-income and exchange-traded products. With more than 8,000 listed issues, NYSE Euronext's equities markets  the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext, NYSE Amex and NYSE Alternext as well as NYSE Arca  represent nearly 40 percent of the world's equities trading, the most liquidity of any global exchange group. NYSE Euronext also operates NYSE Liffe, the leading European derivatives business and the world's second-largest derivatives business by value of trading. The company offers comprehensive commercial technology, connectivity and market data products and services through NYSE Technologies. NYSE Euronext is in the S&P 500 index, and is the only exchange operator in the S&P 100 index and Fortune 500. For more information, please visit:
http://www.nyx.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NYSE Euronext's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are based on NYSE Euronext's current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause NYSE Euronext's results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: NYSE Euronext's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk and U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NYSE Euronext's reference document for 2008
("document de rfrence") filed with the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers (Registered on April 28, 2009 under No. R. 09-031), 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NYSE Euronext that the projections will prove to be correct. This press release speaks only as of this date. NYSE Euronext disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
CONTACT: Media
+31.20.550.4488 (Amsterdam)
+32.2.509.1392 (Brussels)
+351.217.900.029 (Lisbon)
+44.20.7379.2789 (London)
+1.212.656.2140 (New York)
+33.1.49.27.11.33 (Paris)
CONTACT: Investor Relations
+1.212.656.5700 (New York)
+33.1.49.27.58.60 (Paris)
 
 
 
The pro forma non-GAAP results of NYSE Euronext include the following adjustments to the GAAP results:
 
The pro forma non-GAAP results of NYSE Euronext include the following adjustments to the GAAP results:
 
 
 
 
 
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: NYSE Euronext, Options Clearing Corporation and Consolidated Tape as reported for equity securities.
All trading activity is single-counted, except European cash trading which is double counted to include both buys and sells. US data has been updated for Amex integration for October 2008 forward.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


