FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20090730155848.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 30, 2009, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing its results of operations for, and its financial condition as of the end of, the second quarter 2009.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEW YORK  July 30, 2009  NYSE Euronext (NYX) today reported a GAAP net loss of ($182) million, or ($0.70) per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2009, compared to net income of $195 million, or $0.73 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2008. Second quarter 2009 GAAP results include merger expenses and exit costs of ($1.21) per diluted share, primarily related to severance and a one-time termination charge for NYSE Liffe Clearing. Second quarter 2008 GAAP results include a net ($0.02) per diluted share negative impact from merger expenses and exit costs and the reversal of a litigation accrual. Pro forma non-GAAP diluted earnings per share excluding these items was $0.51 in the second quarter of 2009, compared to $0.75 in the second quarter of 2008.
"In the second quarter, we reported higher pro forma net revenue, operating income and diluted earnings per share compared to the first quarter of 2009 and continued to make significant progress with our new business initiatives that will diversify our business model and drive future growth," said Duncan L. Niederauer, CEO, NYSE Euronext. "While the severance and termination charges resulted in a GAAP loss for the quarter, the launch of NYSE Liffe Clearing in Europe earlier today is expected to generate revenues in excess of $100 million annually and is anticipated to be accretive in 2009, and the staffing reductions we have made will result in significant future cost savings. Additionally, we announced a joint venture with DTCC to establish a new, innovative and capital efficient approach to clearing interest rate derivatives and we completed the roll-out of speed enhancements for NYSE, reducing latency to an average of five milliseconds. As we move through the second half of 2009, we will continue to invest in future growth, while at the same time reducing our fixed-cost base."
The table below summarizes our pro forma non-GAAP results:
 
Michael S. Geltzeiler, Group Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, NYSE Euronext, commented, "The positive impact from our ongoing technology and non-technology cost saving initiatives continued in the second quarter with fixed costs down 6% year-over-year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates and investment in new businesses, our underlying fixed expenses were down $50 million, or 12%, compared to the second quarter of 2008. We now believe that we will exceed our cost savings targets for the year."
 
Pro forma non-GAAP net income for the second quarter of 2009 was $132 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, compared to net income of $199 million, or $0.75 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2008. Pro forma non-GAAP results for the second quarter of 2009 exclude ($442) million pre-tax, or ($1.21) per diluted share negative impact from merger expenses and exit costs, consisting of a $355 million contract termination charge for NYSE Liffe Clearing, which commenced operations today, and $87 million primarily related to the anticipated headcount reduction in Europe (approximately 230 employees) and a new voluntary resignation incentive program ("VRIP") in the U.S. (approximately 60 employees). Pro forma non-GAAP results for the second quarter of 2008 exclude a ($38) million pre-tax negative impact from merger expenses and exit costs, primarily related to the U.S. VRIP initiated in the second quarter of 2008, as well as a $36 million positive impact from the reversal of a litigation accrual. In addition to excluding merger expenses and exit costs and one-time items, pro forma non-GAAP results also exclude activity assessment and Section 31 fees, as well as favorable discrete tax items. A full reconciliation of these non-GAAP results is included in the attached tables.
Financial highlights on a pro forma non-GAAP basis include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Market and Business Summary
U.S. Cash Equities
 
 
 
 
European Cash Equities
 
 
 
 
clients of 150-400 microseconds, as compared to 1.5 milliseconds before the UTP migration. The speed improvement for NYSE Arca Europe has been even more pronounced, with latency measured as low as 60 microseconds (roundtrip) with an average latency of 140 microseconds (roundtrip). In addition, NYSE Euronext is now offering Sponsored Access for all its European markets, making low latency, highly efficient trading available to non-members via brokers.
 
 
 
Exchange Traded Products and Global Indexes
 
 
 
European Derivatives
 
 
processed through Bclear in the second quarter of 2008. Clearing fees related to Bclear are significantly lower than our other European derivatives products traded through our full-service offering, LIFFE CONNECT, and have fee caps. Year-to-date European derivatives products ADV of 4.3 million contracts was 3.6% below prior year levels.
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Derivatives
 
 
 
 
Corporation ("FICC") to offer innovative risk management, clearing and settlement efficiencies for U.S. fixed income securities and derivatives. The initiative is expected to be operational in the second quarter of 2010, subject to definitive documentation and approvals.
 
Global Listings
 
 
 
 
 
NYSE Technologies
 
 
 
 
Analyst/Investor/Media Call: July 30, 2009 at 8:00am (NY/EDT)/2:00pm (Paris/CEST)
A presentation and live audio webcast of the second quarter 2009 earnings conference call will be available on the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website, . Those wishing to listen to the live conference via telephone should dial-in at least ten minutes before the call begins. An audio replay of the conference call will be available approximately one hour after the call on the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website, or by dial-in beginning approximately two hours following the conclusion of the live call.
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
Live Dial-in Information:
United States: 866.700.0133
International: 617.213.8831
Passcode: 39687316
Replay Dial-in Information:
United States: 888.286.8010
International: 617.801.6888
Passcode: 55674310
Note: NYSE Euronext net revenues (defined as total revenues less direct transaction costs comprised of Section 31 fees, liquidity payments, and routing and clearing fees) from its primary business activities are represented below as a percentage of total net revenues for the second quarter:
 
 
To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position, or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses and exit costs, other non-recurring items, and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this release.
 
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is a leading global operator of financial markets and provider of innovative trading technologies. The company's exchanges in Europe and the United States trade equities, futures, options, fixed-income and exchange-traded products. With more than 8,000 listed issues, NYSE Euronext's equities markets  the New York Stock Exchange, Euronext, NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex  represent nearly 40 percent of the world's equities trading, the most liquidity of any global exchange group. NYSE Euronext also operates NYSE Liffe, the leading European derivatives business and the world's second-largest derivatives business by value of trading. The company offers comprehensive commercial technology, connectivity and market data products and services through NYSE Technologies. NYSE Euronext is in the S&P 500 index, and is the only exchange operator in the S&P 100 index and Fortune 500. For more information, please visit: www.nyx.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NYSE Euronext's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are based on NYSE Euronext's current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause NYSE Euronext's results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: NYSE Euronext's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk and U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NYSE Euronext's reference document for 2008 ("document de rfrence") filed with the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers (Registered on April 28, 2009 under No. R. 09-031), 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NYSE Euronext that the projections will prove to be correct. This press release speaks only as of this date. NYSE Euronext disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
 
 
 
 
 
The pro forma non-GAAP results of NYSE Euronext include the following adjustments to the GAAP results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pro forma non-GAAP results of NYSE Euronext include the following adjustments to the GAAP results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please refer to footnotes on the following page.
 
 
 
Source: NYSE Euronext, Options Clearing Corporation and Consolidated Tape as reported for equity securities.
All trading activity is single-counted, except European cash trading which is double counted to include both buys and sells.
US data has been updated for Amex integration for October 2008 forward.
 
 
 
Figures for new issuer listings include NYSE new listings and new ETP listings only (NYSE Amex and NYSE Arca are excluded). Figures for Euronext present the operating companies were listed on Euronext and do not include NYSE Alternext, Free Market, closed funds, ETFs and structured product (warrants and certificates). As of June 30, 2009, 123 companies were listed on NYSE Alternext, 307 on Free Market and 464 ETFs were listed on NextTrack.
 
 
 
 
Source: NYSE Euronext, Options Clearing Corporation and Consolidated Tape as reported for equity securities.
 


