FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20100106143803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     (c) On December 31, 2009, the Chairman's Committee of Euronext College of Regulators issued a non-objection regarding the appointment of Dominique Cerutti as Deputy Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext (the "Company"). Mr. Cerutti will also join NYSE Euronext's Management Committee.
     Mr. Cerutti, 48, most recently served as General Manager of IBM Southwest Europe. He had responsibility over IBM's financing arm IGF (IBM Global financing). Mr. Cerutti was a member of IBM Chairman and CEO Sam Palmisano's Senior Leadership Team. Previously, he was general manager of IBM's Global Services in Europe, Middle East & Africa, based in Paris. Prior to that role, in 2000, Mr. Cerutti was general manager of IBM Global Services, West region (France, Belgium and Luxembourg). From December 1998 to October 1999, he was appointed executive assistant at IBM's New York headquarters to former IBM Chairman and CEO Louis V. Gerstner. Mr. Cerutti joined IBM in 1986.
     The terms of Mr. Cerutti's employment agreement provide for an initial base salary of EUR 675,000 and an initial target bonus of EUR 1,000,000, half of which will be paid in cash and half in the form of restricted stock units ("RSUs"). For 2009, Mr. Cerutti will also be paid a one time additional exceptional bonus in the amount of EUR 390,000 which will be granted in the form of RSUs. In addition, for 2010, Mr. Cerutti will be eligible to receive a grant in the range of $1,500,000 to $1,750,000 in RSUs subject to time vesting conditions pursuant to the Company's long-term incentive program. Mr. Cerutti will also be provided with a company car and a driver to be used for business purposes only.
     The agreement provides for Mr. Cerutti to serve until such time as his employment is terminated by the Company or him. If Mr. Cerutti is terminated for any reason other than gross or willful misconduct or an agreed-upon termination, he is entitled to, among other things: a payment in the amount of his base salary plus the maximum annual bonus at such time multiplied by .5 or 1.5, depending upon, among other things, the duration of Mr. Cerutti's tenure with the Company; and accelerated vesting of RSUs granted to him prior to such termination. Upon resignation, subject to certain exceptions, unvested RSUs granted pursuant to the Company's long-term incentive program will be forfeited.
     During his employment and for a period of one year following termination of his employment, Mr. Cerutti is subject to customary non-solicitation and non-competition requirements and will be paid a monthly gross compensation of 50% of his base salary in effect on the termination date plus 50% of the maximum amount of annual bonus in effect on such date for the duration of the non-solicitation and non-competition periods.
ITEM 5.03 AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS; CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR
     On December 31, 2009, following the receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals, NYSE Euronext amended and restated its bylaws. The amendments provide that at least three-fourths of the members of the board of directors shall satisfy the independence requirements for directors of the Company, modifying the prior provision requiring that all members of the board of directors, other than the chief executive officer and deputy chief executive officer, satisfy the independence requirements. Accordingly, the amendment also provides that in addition to the CEO and deputy CEO, any other directors who do not satisfy the independence requirements shall be recused from acts of the board that are required to be taken by directors that satisfy the independence requirements.
     The amended and restated bylaws, marked to show changes to the former bylaws, are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and are incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 3.1
 
          Section 1.1. . The registered office of NYSE Euronext (the "") in the State of Delaware shall be established and maintained at the office of The Corporation Trust Company, located at the Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware 19801, and The Corporation Trust Company shall be the registered agent of the Corporation in charge thereof.
Registered Office
Corporation
          Section 1.2. . The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, at such places as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Other Offices
          Section 1.3. . The books and records of the Corporation may be kept outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records
          Section 2.1. . An annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, and for such other business as may be stated in the notice of the meeting, shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, and at such time and date as the Board of Directors, by resolution, shall determine and as set forth in the notice of the meeting. At each annual meeting, the stockholders entitled to vote shall elect a Board of Directors and they may transact such other corporate business as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting.
Annual Meetings
 
          Section 2.2. . Special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time by, and only by, (1) the Board of Directors acting pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the directors, (2) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (3) the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, (4) the Chief Executive Officer or (5) the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, in each case, to be held at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be stated in the notice of the meeting.
Special Meetings
          Section 2.3. . Written notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the general nature of the business to be considered, shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat, at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or required by the Delaware General Corporation Law (the ""). If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to have been given when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, canceled or adjourned by resolution of the Board of Directors at any time in advance of the date previously scheduled for such meeting.
Notice of Meetings
DGCL
          Section 2.4. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the ""), the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all of the then-outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum of such class or series for the transaction of such business. The chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. At any such adjourned meeting at which the requisite amount of stock entitled to vote shall be represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed, but only those stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting as originally noticed shall be entitled to vote at any adjournment or adjournments thereof. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment,
Quorum and Adjournment
Certificate of Incorporation
 
notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
          Section 2.5. . Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by such person or persons as the Board of Directors may have designated or, in the absence of such person, the Chairman or Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or in the absence of a Chairman or Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors by the Chief Executive Officer or Deputy Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of a Chief Executive Officer or Deputy Chief Executive Officer by an Executive Vice President, or in the absence of an Executive Vice President, by a chairman chosen at the meeting. A Corporate Secretary, or in the absence of a Corporate Secretary an Assistant Corporate Secretary, shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of a Corporate Secretary and any Assistant Corporate Secretary, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
          The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to adjourn a meeting of stockholders without a vote of stockholders and to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting and are not inconsistent with any rules or regulations adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, including the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls for each item upon which a vote is to be taken.
          Section 2.6. . Prior to any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Deputy Chief Executive Officer or any other officer designated by the Board of Directors shall appoint one or more inspectors, who shall have the powers and duties set forth in Section 231 of the DGCL as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended or replaced, which inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at such meeting and make a written report thereof and may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls
 
inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
          Section 2.7. . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder which has voting power upon the matter in question. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power, regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or an interest in the Corporation generally. A stockholder may revoke any proxy that is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with a Corporate Secretary. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot unless so directed by the chairman of the meeting or the Board of Directors. Subject to Section 3.2 of these Bylaws (unless such Section is suspended or has become void and of no force and effect as provided for under Section 10.11 of these Bylaws), directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. In all other matters, unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a majority of the votes cast for or against the matter at the meeting by stockholders entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders. Where a separate vote by class or classes is required, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority (or, in the case of an election of directors, a plurality) of the votes cast for or against the matter at the meeting by stockholders in that class or classes entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of such class or classes, except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Voting; Proxies
          Section 2.8. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may, except as otherwise required by the DGCL, fix a record date, which record date shall not
Stockholders Record Date
 
precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which record date: (1) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting and (2) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than sixty days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held and (2) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
          Section 2.9. . A complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each, and the number of shares held by each, shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, at the principal place of business of the Corporation or at such other location as specified in the notice of the meeting. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is entitled to be present.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
          Section 2.10. .
Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees for Director and Other Stockholder Proposals
          (A) Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
          (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 2.10, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.10.
          (2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Section 2.10, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of
 
the Corporation and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. For nominations, such notice must include the documentation necessary to determine whether the nominee is a U.S. Person or a European Person as of the date of such notice. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.
Exchange Act
          (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
          (B) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to
 
the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event that the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
          (C) General.
          (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall not be presented for stockholder action and shall be disregarded.
          (2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
public announcement
SEC
          (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
          Section 2.11. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, any action required
No Stockholder Action by Written Consent
 
or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
          Section 3.1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors. The number of directors on the Board of Directors shall be fixed and changed from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by two-thirds of the directors then in office. In addition to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon them by these Bylaws, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. A director need not be a stockholder.
General Powers
          Section 3.2. .
Certain Qualifications for the Board of Directors
          (A) In any election of directors, and subject to Section 3.4 of these Bylaws, the nominees whom shall be elected to the Board of Directors shall be nominees who receive the highest number of votes such that, immediately after such election, (1) U.S. Persons as of such election shall constitute at least half of, but no more than the smallest number of directors that will constitute a majority of, the directors on the Board of Directors, and (2) European Persons as of such election shall constitute the remainder of the directors on the Board of Directors. Any nominee who is not elected in accordance with this Section 3.2(A) of these Bylaws shall not be qualified to serve as a director and therefore shall not be elected to serve as a director. A "" shall mean, as of the date of his or her most recent election or appointment as a director, any person whose domicile as of such date is and for the immediately preceding twenty-four (24) months shall have been a country in Europe. A "" shall mean, as of the date of his or her most recent election or appointment as a director any person whose domicile as of such date is and for the immediately preceding twenty-four (24) months shall have been the United States.
European Person
U.S. Person
          (B) For each meeting of stockholders at which directors are elected, the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors shall nominate, and the Board of Directors shall propose, a slate of directors who, if elected, would meet the requirements of Section 3.2(A) of these Bylaws.
          (C) In the event that Section 3.2(A) shall be suspended or become void pursuant to Section 10.11(A) or 10.11(B), then (in the case of a suspension as provided for under Section 10.11(A), only so long as such suspension shall remain in effect) the number of directors on the
 
Board of Directors shall be fixed from time to time pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the directors then in office.
               Section 3.3. . Either (1) the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be a U.S. Person and the Chief Executive Officer shall be a European Person, in each case, as of the most recent election of directors, or (2) the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be a European Person and the Chief Executive Officer shall be a U.S. Person, in each case, as of the most recent election of directors.
Certain Qualifications for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
               Section 3.4. . The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and Deputy Chief Executive Officer may be members of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer shall be recused from acts of the Board of Directors, whether it is acting as the Board of Directors or as a committee of the Board of Directors, with respect to acts of any committee of the Board of Directors that is required to be comprised solely of directors that satisfy the independence requirements of the Corporation, as modified and amended by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Independence Requirements
At least three-fourths of the members of the Board of Directors shall satisfy the independence requirements for directors of the Corporation, as modified and amended by the Board of Directors from time to time.
All members of the Board of Directors, other than the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, shall satisfy the independence requirements for directors of the Corporation, as modified and amended by the Board of Directors from time to time.
and any other directors who do not satisfy the independence requirements
               Section 3.5. . Each director shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein (and if no time be specified, at the time of its receipt by the Board of Directors) and unless otherwise specified therein no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective.
Election; Term of Office; Resignation
               Section 3.6. . Any vacancy on the Board of Directors resulting from death, retirement, resignation, disqualification or removal from office or other cause, as well as any vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors which occurs between annual meetings of the stockholders at which directors are elected, shall be filled only by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director (and not by stockholders, unless there shall be no remaining directors), upon
Vacancies
 
the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. If a vacancy results from the death, retirement, resignation, disqualification or removal from office of a U.S. Person or European Person as of the most recent election of directors, then the director chosen to fill such vacancy shall be a U.S. Person or European Person, respectively, as of the date of the appointment of such person as a director. If one or more vacancies shall result from an increase in the number of directors between annual meetings of the stockholders at which directors are elected, then such vacancies shall be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office; provided that, after filling any such vacancy, (1) U.S. Persons as of the date of their most recent election or appointment as a director shall constitute at least half of, but no more than the smallest number of directors that will constitute a majority of, the directors on the Board of Directors, and (2) European Persons as of the date of their most recent election or appointment as a director shall constitute the remainder of the directors on the Board of Directors. The directors chosen to fill any vacancies shall hold office for a term expiring at the end of the next annual meeting of stockholders, but shall continue to serve despite the expiration of the director's term until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten or eliminate the term of any incumbent director. Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled by the Certificate of Incorporation to elect one or more directors, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by, and only by, a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series then in office, or by the sole remaining director so elected. If the office of any director becomes vacant and there are no remaining directors, the stockholders, by the affirmative vote of the holders of shares constituting a majority of the voting power of the Corporation, at a special meeting called for such purpose, may appoint any qualified person to fill such vacancy.
               Section 3.7. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the then-outstanding shares of the Corporation's capital stock entitled to vote in an election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Removal
               Section 3.8. . The newly elected directors may hold their first meeting for the purpose of organization and the transaction of business, if a quorum be present, immediately after the annual meeting of the stockholders; or the time and place of such meeting may be fixed by consent of all the Directors. Regular meetings
Meetings
 
of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such places and times as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held with substantially equal frequency in the United States and Europe. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by a Chairman of the Board, the Deputy Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the directors then in office, and shall be held at such place or places as may be determined by the Board of Directors.
               Section 3.9. . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director at his business or residence in writing by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, facsimile transmission, email or other electronic transmission or orally by telephone not later than twenty-four (24) hours prior to such meeting. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least four (4) days before such meeting; provided, that, any notice sent by U.S. mail to an address outside of the United States will also be sent by overnight mail or courier service to such director. If by overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting; provided, that, any notice sent by U.S. mail to an address outside of the United States will also be sent by overnight mail or courier service to such director. If by facsimile transmission, email or other electronic transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 10.3 of these Bylaws.
Notice
               Section 3.10. . Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board, shall be entitled to participate in a meeting of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Bylaw shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone Permitted
 
               Section 3.11. . At each meeting of the Board of Directors, a whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors (including any vacancies) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws shall require a vote of a greater number. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum. In case at any meeting of the Board a quorum shall not be present, the members or a majority of the members of the Board present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum; Vote Required for Action
               Section 3.12. . Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or in the absence of a Chairman of the Board of Directors, by the Deputy Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of both the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman of the Board, a chairman chosen at the meeting; provided, however, that, if the Chairman of the Board of Directors or Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors is also the Chief Executive Officer or Deputy Chief Executive Officer, he or she shall not participate in executive sessions of the Board of Directors. If the Chairman of the Board of Directors is not the Chief Executive Officer or Deputy Chief Executive Officer, he or she shall act as a liaison officer between the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer. A Corporate Secretary, or in the absence of a Corporate Secretary an Assistant Corporate Secretary, shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of a Corporate Secretary and any Assistant Corporate Secretary the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
               Section 3.13. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, then in office consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Action by Directors Without a Meeting
               Section 3.14. . Directors may be paid such compensation for their services and such reimbursement for expenses of attendance at meetings as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. No such payment shall
Compensation of Directors
 
preclude any director from serving the Corporation or any of its parents or subsidiaries in any other capacity and receiving compensation for such service.
               Section 3.15. .
Considerations of the Board
          (A) In discharging his or her responsibilities as a member of the Board, each director also must, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, take into consideration the effect that the Corporation's actions would have on the ability of:
          (1) the European Market Subsidiaries to carry out their responsibilities under the European Exchange Regulations as operators of European Regulated Markets;
          (2) the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries to carry out their responsibilities under the Exchange Act; and
          (3) the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries, NYSE Group, Inc. ("NYSE Group") (if and to the extent that NYSE Group continues to exist as a separate entity) and the Corporation (a) to engage in conduct that fosters and does not interfere with the ability of the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries, NYSE Group (if and to the extent that NYSE Group continues to exist as a separate entity) and the Corporation to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices in the securities markets; (b) to promote just and equitable principles of trade in the securities markets; (c) to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities; (d) to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanisms of a free and open market in securities and a U.S. national securities market system; and (e) in general, to protect investors and the public interest.
          (B) In discharging his or her responsibilities as a member of the Board or as an officer or employee of the Corporation, each such director, officer or employee shall (1) comply with the U.S. federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, (2) comply with the European Exchange Regulations and the rules and regulations thereunder, (3) cooperate with the SEC, (4) cooperate with the European Regulators, (5) cooperate with the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries pursuant to and, to the extent of, their regulatory authority and (6) cooperate with the European Market Subsidiaries pursuant to and, to the extent of, their regulatory authority.
          (C) Nothing in this Section 3.15 shall create any duty owed by any director, officer or employee of the Corporation to any Person to consider, or afford any particular weight to, any of the foregoing matters or to limit his or her consideration to the foregoing matters. No employee, former employee, beneficiary, customer, creditor, community or regulatory authority or member thereof shall have any rights against any director, officer or employee of the Corporation or the Corporation under this Section 3.15.
 
                Section 4.1. . The Board of Directors may from time to time designate one or more committees of the Board of Directors, with such lawfully delegable powers and duties as it thereby confers, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and shall, for those committees and any others provided for herein, elect a director or directors to serve as the member or members, designating, if it desires, other directors as alternate members who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of any committee and any alternate member in his or her place, the member or members of the committee present at the meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or she or they constitute a quorum, may by unanimous vote appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member. Subject to the requirements of Section 4.4 of these Bylaws (unless such section has been suspended or become void and of no force and effect as provided for under Section 10.11 of these Bylaws), the Board of Directors shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board of Directors from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board of Directors.
Committees of the Board of Directors
               Section 4.2. . Each committee may determine the procedural rules for meeting and conducting its business and shall act in accordance therewith, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law. A majority of any committee may fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide. Adequate provision shall be made for notice of such meetings to be given to members of the committees.
Committee Procedures
               Section 4.3. . Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may adopt, amend and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of a provision by the Board or a provision in the rules of such committee to the contrary, a majority of the entire authorized number of members of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business unless the committee shall consist of one (1) or two (2) members, in which event one (1) member shall constitute a quorum. The vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then present shall be the act of such
Committee Rules
 
committee. Action may be taken by any committee without a meeting if all members thereof consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of such committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
               Section 4.4. . The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors shall be comprised of an equal number of U.S. Persons (as determined as of their most recent election or appointment as directors) and European Persons (as determined as of their most recent election or appointment as directors).
Nominating and Governance Committee
               Section 5.1. . The Board of Directors shall take such action as may be necessary from time to time to ensure that the Corporation has such officers as are necessary, under this Section 5.1 of these Bylaws and the DGCL as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended, to enable it to sign stock certificates. In addition, the Board of Directors at any time and from time to time may elect (1) a Chairman of the Board of Directors from among its members, (2) a Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors from among its members, (3) a Chief Executive Officer, a Deputy Chief Executive Officer, one or more Presidents and/or one or more Chief Financial Officers, (4) one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Corporate Secretaries and/or (5) one or more other officers, in the case of each of (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) if and to the extent the Board deems desirable. The Board of Directors may give any officer such further designations or alternate titles as it considers desirable. In addition, the Board of Directors at any time and from time to time may authorize any officer of the Corporation to appoint one or more officers of the kind described in clauses (4) and (5) above. Any number of offices may be held by the same person and directors may hold any office unless the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws otherwise provide.
Officers and Chairmen; Election or Appointment
               Section 5.2. . Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors electing or authorizing the appointment of any officer, each officer shall hold office until his or her successor is elected or appointed and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board or to
Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies
 
such person or persons as the Board may designate. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and unless otherwise specified therein no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. The Board may remove any officer with or without cause at any time. Any officer authorized by the Board to appoint a person to hold an office of the Corporation may also remove such person from such office with or without cause at any time, unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board providing such authorization. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled by the Board at any regular or special meeting or by an officer authorized by the Board to appoint a person to hold such office.
               Section 5.3. . The officers of the Corporation shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Corporation as shall be stated in these Bylaws or in a resolution of the Board of Directors which is not inconsistent with these Bylaws and, to the extent not so stated, as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the Board. The Board may require any officer, agent or employee to give security for the faithful performance of his or her duties.
Powers and Duties
               Section 6.1. . The shares of stock in the Corporation shall be represented by certificates; provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to any such shares represented by a certificate theretofore issued until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. If shares of stock in the Corporation are certificated, any signature on such certificates may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation may bear such legends regarding restrictions on transfer or other matters as any officer or officers of the Corporation may determine to be appropriate and lawful.
Certificates; Uncertificated Shares
          If the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications or restrictions
 
of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, provided that, except as otherwise required by law, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of such class or series of stock and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares of any class or series of stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required by law to be set forth or stated on certificates representing shares of such class or series or a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of such class or series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
          Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
               Section 6.2. . No certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or any financial officer may in its or his discretion require.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates
               Section 6.3. . The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable only upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, and upon such transfer the old certificates shall be surrendered to the Corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books and ledgers, or to such other person as the Board of Directors may designate, by whom they shall be cancelled, and new certificates shall thereupon be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer.
Transfer of Shares
               Section 7.1. . The Corporation, its directors and officers, and those of
Submission to Jurisdiction of U.S. Courts and the SEC
 
its employees whose principal place of business and residence is outside of the United States shall be deemed to irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the U.S. federal courts and the SEC for the purposes of any suit, action or proceeding pursuant to the U.S. federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, commenced or initiated by the SEC arising out of, or relating to, the activities of the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries (and shall be deemed to agree that the Corporation may serve as the U.S. agent for purposes of service of process in such suit, action or proceeding), and the Corporation and each such director, officer or employee, in the case of any such director, officer or employee by virtue of his acceptance of any such position, shall be deemed to waive, and agree not to assert by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise in any such suit, action or proceeding, any claims that it or they are not personally subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC, that such suit, action or proceeding is an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such suit, action or proceeding is improper, or that the subject matter thereof may not be enforced in or by such courts or agency.
               Section 7.2. . The Corporation, its directors and officers and employees shall be deemed to irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the European Regulators and to courts in the capital city of the country of each such regulator for the purposes of any suit, action or proceeding pursuant to the European Exchange Regulations and the rules and regulations thereunder, commenced or initiated by the European Regulators arising out of, or relating to, the activities of the European Market Subsidiaries, and the Corporation and each such director, officer or employee, in the case of any such director, officer or employee by virtue of his acceptance of any such position, shall be deemed to waive, and agree not to assert by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise in any such suit, action or proceeding, any claims that it or they are not personally subject to the jurisdiction of the European Regulators, that such suit, action or proceeding is an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such suit, action or proceeding is improper, or that the subject matter thereof may not be enforced in or by such courts or regulator.
Submission to Jurisdiction of European Regulators
               Section 7.3. .
Certain Definitions
          (A) "" means (1) the Committee of Chairmen of the French Financial Market Authority (Autorit des Marchs Financiers), the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (Autoriteit Financiele Markten), the Belgian Banking, Finance, and Insurance Commission (Commission Bancaire, Financire, et des Assurances), the Portuguese Securities Market Commission (Comisso do Mercado de Valores Mobilirios  CMVM), and the U.K. Financial Services Authority (FSA), pursuant to the Memoranda of Understanding, dated March 3, 2003 and March 22, 2001, and (2) a successor body thereto created to include a European Regulator that regulates a European Market Subsidiary.
Euronext College of Regulators
 
          (B) "" shall mean (1) laws providing for the regulation of securities exchanges in France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal and the United Kingdom and (2) following the formation or acquisition by Euronext N.V. ("Euronext") of any European Regulated Market not owned and operated by Euronext as of 3:00am Eastern Daylight Time on April 4, 2007 (the ""), laws providing for the regulation of securities exchanges in the jurisdiction in which such European Regulated Market operates; provided that (a) the formation or acquisition of such European Regulated Market shall have been approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and (b) the jurisdiction in which such European Regulated Market operates is represented in the Euronext College of Regulators.
European Exchange Regulations
Effective Time
          (C) "" means each "" (as defined by the European Directive on Markets in Financial Instruments 2004/39 EC) in Europe that (1) is owned and operated by Euronext and was owned and operated by Euronext as of the Effective Time; or (2) is formed or acquired by Euronext after the Effective Time; provided that, in the case of clause (2), the formation or acquisition of such European Regulated Market shall have been approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the jurisdiction in which such European Regulated Market operates is represented in the Euronext College of Regulators.
European Regulated Market
regulated market
          (D) "" shall mean any of the Euronext College of Regulators, the Dutch Minister of Finance, the French Minister of the Economy, the French Financial Market Authority (Autorit des Marchs Financiers), the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (Autoriteit Financiele Markten), the Belgian Banking, Finance, and Insurance Commission (Commission Bancaire, Financire, et des Assurances), the French Committee of Credit Establishments and Investment Undertakings (Comit des Etablissements de Crdit et des Enterprises d'Investissement  CECEI), the Portuguese Securities Market Commission (Comisso do Mercado de Valores Mobilirios  CMVM), the U.K. Financial Services Authority (FSA), or any other governmental securities regulator in any European country where the Corporation or any European Market Subsidiary operates a European Regulated Market, in each case only to the extent that it has authority and jurisdiction in the particular context.
European Regulator
          (E) "" (and collectively, the "") shall mean any "" (as defined by the European Directive on Markets in Financial Instruments 2004/39 EC) that is (1) owned by Euronext as of the Effective Time and continues to be owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation; or (2) acquired by Euronext after the Effective Time; provided that, in the case of clause (2), the acquisition of such entity shall have been approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the jurisdiction in which such European Market Subsidiary operates is represented in the Euronext College of Regulators.
European Market Subsidiary
European Market Subsidiaries
market operator
          (F) "" shall mean (1) any and all of the jurisdictions in which Euronext or any of its subsidiaries operates a European Regulated Market, (2) any member state of the European Economic Area as of the Effective Time and any state that becomes a member of the European Economic Area after the Effective Time, and (3) Switzerland.
Europe
          (G) "" shall mean New York Stock Exchange LLC, NYSE Market, Inc., NYSE Regulation, Inc., NYSE Arca, L.L.C., NYSE Arca, Inc., NYSE Arca Equities, Inc. and NYSE Alternext US LLC or their successors, in each case to the extent that
U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries
 
such entities continue to be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation (and each, a "").
U.S. Regulated Subsidiary
               Section 8.1. . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, all confidential information that shall come into the possession of the Corporation pertaining to:
Limits on Disclosure
          (A) the self-regulatory function of New York Stock Exchange LLC, NYSE Market, Inc., NYSE Regulation, Inc., NYSE Arca, Inc., NYSE Arca Equities, Inc. and NYSE Alternext US LLC or their successors, in each case to the extent that such entities continue to be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation (including but not limited to disciplinary matters, trading data, trading practices and audit information) contained in the books and records of any of the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries (the ""); or
U.S. Subsidiaries' Confidential Information
          (B) the self-regulatory function of any of the European Market Subsidiaries under the European Exchange Regulations as operator of a European Regulated Market (including but not limited to disciplinary matters, trading data, trading practices and audit information) contained in the books and records of the European Market Subsidiaries (the "");
European Subsidiaries' Confidential Information
in each case, shall (x) not be made available to any Persons (other than as provided in Sections 8.2 and 8.3 of these Bylaws) other than to those officers, directors, employees and agents of the Corporation that have a reasonable need to know the contents thereof; (y) be retained in confidence by the Corporation and the officers, directors, employees and agents of the Corporation; and (z) not be used for any commercial purposes.
               Section 8.2. . Notwithstanding Section 8.1 of these Bylaws, nothing in these Bylaws shall be interpreted so as to limit or impede:
Certain Disclosure Permitted
          (A) the rights of the SEC or any of the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries to have access to and examine such U.S. Subsidiaries' Confidential Information pursuant to the U.S. federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder;
          (B) the rights of the European Regulators or any of the European Market Subsidiaries to have access to and examine such European Subsidiaries' Confidential Information pursuant to the European Exchange Regulations; or
          (C) the ability of any officers, directors, employees or agents of the Corporation to disclose (1) the U.S. Subsidiaries' Confidential Information to the SEC or the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries or (2) the European Subsidiaries' Confidential Information to the European Regulators or the European Market Subsidiaries.
 
               Section 8.3. . The Corporation's books and records shall be subject at all times to inspection and copying by:
Inspection
          (A) the SEC;
          (B) each of the European Regulators;
          (C) any U.S. Regulated Subsidiary; provided that such books and records are related to the operation or administration of such U.S. Regulated Subsidiary or any other U.S. Regulated Subsidiary over which such U.S. Regulated Subsidiary has regulatory authority or oversight; and
          (D) any European Market Subsidiary; provided that such books and records are related to the operation or administration of such European Market Subsidiary or any European Regulated Market over which such European Market Subsidiary has regulatory authority or oversight.
               Section 8.4. Subject to Section 8.6 of these Bylaws, the Corporation's books and records related to U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries shall be maintained within the United States. For so long as the Corporation directly or indirectly controls any U.S. Regulated Subsidiary, the books, records, premises, officers, directors and employees of the Corporation shall be deemed to be the books, records, premises, officers, directors and employees of such U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries for purposes of and subject to oversight pursuant to the Exchange Act.
               Section 8.5. Subject to Section 8.6 of these Bylaws, the Corporation's books and records related to European Market Subsidiaries shall be maintained within the home jurisdiction of one or more European Market Subsidiaries. For so long as the Corporation directly or indirectly controls any European Market Subsidiary, the books, records, premises, officers, directors and employees of the Corporation shall be deemed to be the books, records, premises, officers, directors and employees of such European Market Subsidiaries for purposes of and subject to oversight pursuant to the European Exchange Regulations.
               Section 8.6. If and to the extent that any of the Corporation's books and records may relate to both European Market Subsidiaries and U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries, the Corporation shall be entitled to maintain such books and records either in the home jurisdiction of one or more European Market Subsidiaries or in the United States.
 
                Section 9.1. The Corporation shall comply with the U.S. federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder and shall cooperate with the SEC and the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries pursuant to and to the extent of their respective regulatory authority, and shall take reasonable steps necessary to cause its agents to cooperate, with the SEC and, where applicable, the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries pursuant to their regulatory authority.
                Section 9.2. The Corporation shall comply with the European Exchange Regulations and the rules and regulations thereunder and shall cooperate with the European Regulators pursuant to and to the extent of their respective regulatory authority, and shall take reasonable steps necessary to cause its agents to cooperate, with the European Regulators pursuant to their regulatory authority.
               Section 9.3. The Corporation shall take reasonable steps necessary to cause its officers, directors and employees, prior to accepting a position as an officer, director or employee, as applicable, of the Corporation to consent in writing to the applicability to them of Articles VII and VIII and Sections 3.15 and 9.4 of these Bylaws, as applicable, with respect to their activities related to any U.S. Regulated Subsidiary.
               Section 9.4. The Corporation, its directors, officers and employees shall give due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries (to the extent of each U.S. Regulated Subsidiary's self-regulatory function) and to its obligations to investors and the general public, and shall not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of any decisions by the board of directors or managers of the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries relating to their regulatory responsibilities (including enforcement and disciplinary matters) or that would interfere with the ability of the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries to carry out their respective responsibilities under the Exchange Act.
               Section 9.5. The Corporation, its directors, officers and employees shall give due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of the European Market Subsidiaries (to the extent of each European Market Subsidiaries' self-regulatory function) and to its obligations to investors and the general public, and shall not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of any decisions by the board of directors or managers of the European Market Subsidiaries relating to their regulatory responsibilities
 
(including enforcement and disciplinary matters) or that would interfere with the ability of the European Market Subsidiaries to carry out their respective regulatory responsibilities under the European Exchange Regulations.
               Section 9.6. No stockholder, employee, former employee, beneficiary, customer, creditor, community, regulatory authority or member thereof shall have any rights against the Corporation or any director, officer or employee of the Corporation under this Article IX.
               Section 10.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
               Section 10.2. . The Corporation may have a corporate seal which shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors. The corporate seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
Seal
               Section 10.3. . Whenever notice is required to be given by law or under any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice or any waiver by electronic transmission unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Waiver of Notice of Meetings of Stockholders, Directors and Committees
               Section 10.4. . Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct.
Contracts
 
Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. The Chairman of the Board, the Deputy Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President may execute bonds, contracts, deeds, leases and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the Deputy Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President of the Corporation may delegate contractual powers to others under his jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
               Section 10.5. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Deputy Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies
               Section 10.6. .
Indemnification and Insurance
          (A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a ""), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the DGCL, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, to the fullest extent permitted by law, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all
proceeding
 
expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement, and excise taxes or penalties arising under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Section 10.6, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board. The right to indemnification conferred in this Section 10.6 shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, if the DGCL requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section 10.6 or otherwise. The Corporation may, by action of the Board, provide indemnification to employees and agents of the Corporation with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of directors and officers. For purposes of this Bylaw, the term "Corporation" shall include any predecessor of the Corporation and any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed by the Corporation in a consolidation or merger.
          (B) To obtain indemnification under this Section 10.6, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, even if less than a quorum, or (iii) if there are no Disinterested Directors, or if a majority of the Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iv) if a majority of the Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event that the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control," in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
 
          (C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Section 10.6 is not paid in full by the Corporation within thirty (30) days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Section 10.6 has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct that makes it permissible under the DGCL for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the DGCL, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
          (D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Section 10.6 that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Section 10.6.
          (E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Section 10.6 that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
          (F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right that any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
          (G) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the DGCL. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Section 10.6, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
 
          (H) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Section 10.6 with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
          (I) If any provision or provisions of this Section 10.6 shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Section 10.6 (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Section 10.6 containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Section 10.6 (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Section 10.6 containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
          (J) For purposes of this Section 10.6:
          (1) "" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
Disinterested Director
          (2) "" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Section 10.6.
Independent Counsel
          (3) "" means the first to occur of:
Change of Control
 
 
          (K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Section 10.6 shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
          Section 10.7. . Unless otherwise required by applicable law, any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account and minute books, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards, magnetic tape, photographs, microphotographs or any other information storage device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time. The Corporation shall so convert any records so kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same.
Form of Records
          Section 10.8. . For purposes of these Bylaws, any reference to a statute, rule or regulation of any governmental body means such statute, rule or regulation (including any successor thereto) as the same currently exists or may be amended from time to time. Any reference in these Bylaws to the close of business on any day shall be deemed to mean 5:00 P.M., New York time, on such day, whether or not such day is a business day.
Laws and Regulations; Close of Business
          Section 10.9. . The affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then in office shall be required for (1) the consummation of any Extraordinary Transaction, or (2) the execution by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of a definitive agreement providing for an Extraordinary Transaction. An
Certain Extraordinary Transactions
 
"" shall mean any of the following: (a) the direct or indirect acquisition, sale or disposition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of assets or equity securities where the consideration received in respect of such assets or equity securities has a fair market value, measured as of the date of the execution of the definitive agreement providing for such acquisition, sale or disposition (or, if no definitive agreement is executed for such acquisition, sale or disposition, the date of the consummation of such acquisition, sale or disposition), in excess of 30% of the aggregate equity market capitalization of the Corporation as of such date; (b) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries with any entity with an aggregate equity market capitalization (or, if such entity's equity securities shall not be traded on a securities exchange, with a fair market value of assets), measured as of the date of the execution of the definitive agreement providing for such merger or consolidation (or, if no definitive agreement is executed for such merger or consolidation, the date of the consummation of such merger or consolidation), in excess of 30% of the aggregate equity market capitalization of the Corporation as of such date; or (c) any direct or indirect acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of assets or equity securities of an entity whose principal place of business is outside of the United States and Europe, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries with an entity whose principal place of business is outside of the United States and Europe, pursuant to which the Corporation has agreed that one or more directors of the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be a person who is neither a U.S. Person nor a European Person as of the most recent election of directors.
Extraordinary Transaction
          Section 10.10. .
Amendment of Bylaws
          (A) By the Board.
          (1) These Bylaws may be amended or repealed, and new Bylaws may be adopted at any time, by a majority of the Board of Directors, except as set forth in Section 10.10(A)(2) of these Bylaws (unless such section has become void as provided for under Section 10.11(B) of these Bylaws).
          (2) None of Section 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.6, 3.9, 3.10, 3.15, 4.4, 7.3(F), 10.9, 10.10(A) or 10.10(B) of these Bylaws may be amended or repealed, and no new bylaw that contradicts these sections may be adopted, by the Board of Directors, other than pursuant to an affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the directors then in office.
          (B) By Stockholders. Stockholders of the Corporation may amend or repeal any Bylaw; provided that notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the stockholders meeting at which such action is to be taken and, provided, further, that in addition to any vote of
 
the holders of any class or series of stock of the Corporation required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation:
          (1) the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the then-outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required for the stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal Section 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.6, 3.9, 3.10, 3.15, 4.4, 7.3(F), 10.9, 10.10(A) or 10.10(B) of these Bylaws; and
          (2) the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the then-outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required for the stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal any other Section of these Bylaws.
          (C) Notwithstanding paragraphs (A) and (B) of this Section 10.10, (1) for so long as the Corporation shall control, directly or indirectly, any European Market Subsidiary, before any amendment or repeal of any provision of these Bylaws shall be effective, such amendment or repeal shall either be (i) filed with or filed with and approved by a European Regulator under European Exchange Regulations or (ii) submitted to the boards of directors of the European Market Subsidiaries and, if any or all of such boards of directors shall determine that such amendment or repeal must be filed with or filed with and approved by a European Regulator under European Exchange Regulations before such amendment or repeal may be effectuated, then such amendment or repeal shall not be effectuated until filed with or filed with and approved by the relevant European Regulator(s); and (2) for so long as the Corporation shall control, directly or indirectly, any of the U.S. Regulated Subsidiaries before any amendment or repeal of any provision of these Bylaws shall be effective, such amendment or repeal shall either be (i) filed with or filed with and approved by the SEC under Section 19 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder or (ii) submitted to the boards of directors of New York Stock Exchange LLC, NYSE Market, Inc., NYSE Regulation, Inc., NYSE Arca, Inc., NYSE Arca Equities, Inc. and NYSE Alternext US LLC or the boards of directors of their successors, in each case only to the extent that such entity continues to be controlled directly or indirectly by the Corporation, and if any or all of such boards of directors shall determine that such amendment or repeal must be filed with or filed with and approved by the SEC under Section 19 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder before such amendment or repeal may be effectuated, then such amendment or repeal shall not be effectuated until filed with or filed with and approved by the SEC, as the case may be.
          Section 10.11. .
Automatic Suspension and Revocation of Certain Provisions
          (A) Immediately following the exercise of a Euronext Call Option, and for so long as the Foundation shall continue to hold any Priority Shares or ordinary shares of Euronext, or the voting securities of one or more of the subsidiaries of Euronext that, taken together, represent a substantial portion of Euronext's business, then each of the second sentence of Section 2.10(A)(2), the second and third sentences of Section 3.6, the third sentence of Section 3.8 and Sections 3.2(A), 3.2(B), 3.3, 3.15(A)(1), 3.15(B)(2), 3.15(B)(4), 3.15(B)(6), 4.4, 7.2, 8.1(B),
 
8.2(B), 8.2(C)(2), 8.3(B), 8.3(D), 8.5, 9.2, 9.5 and 10.9 of these Bylaws shall be suspended and be of no force and effect.
          (B) If, (1) after a period of six (6) months following the exercise of a Euronext Call Option, the Foundation shall continue to hold any ordinary shares of Euronext, or the securities of one or more subsidiaries of Euronext that, taken together, represent a substantial portion of Euronext's business, (2) after a period of six (6) months following the exercise of a Euronext Call Option, the Foundation shall continue to hold any Priority Shares of Euronext, or the priority shares or similar securities of one or more subsidiaries of Euronext that, taken together, represent a substantial portion of Euronext's business or (3) at any time, the Corporation no longer holds a direct or indirect Controlling Interest in Euronext, or in one or more subsidiaries of Euronext that, taken together, represent a substantial portion of Euronext's business, then each of the second sentence of Section 2.10(A)(2), the second and third sentences of Section 3.6, the third sentence of Section 3.8 and Sections 3.2(A), 3.2(B), 3.3, 3.15(A)(1), 3.15(B)(2), 3.15(B)(4), 3.15(B)(6), 4.4, 7.2, 7.3(A), 7.3(B), 7.3(C), 7.3(D), 7.3(E), 7.3(F), 8.1(B), 8.2(B), 8.2(C)(2), 8.3(B), 8.3(D), 8.5, 9.2, 9.5, 10.9, 10.10(A)(2), 10.10(B)(1) and 10.10(C)(1) of these Bylaws, shall automatically and without further action become void and be of no further force and effect, and any directors and officers of the Corporation that are European Persons shall resign or be removed from their offices; provided, however, that, in the case of clause (2) of this Section 10.11(B), such provisions shall be deleted and become void only if and to the extent that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall approve of such deletion by resolution adopted by a majority of the directors then in office.
          (C) For the purposes of this Section 10.11:
          (1) A "" in any entity shall mean fifty percent (50%) or more of both (1) the then-outstanding shares of each class of voting securities of such entity and (2) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the such entity entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Controlling Interest
          (2) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Articles of Formation of the Foundation.
Euronext Call Option
          (3) "" shall mean Stichting NYSE Euronext, a foundation ("") organized under the laws of The Netherlands, formed by the Corporation on April 4, 2007.
Foundation
stichting
          (4) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Articles of Formation of the Foundation.
Priority Shares
          Section 10.12. .
Voting and Ownership Limitations
          (A) Subject to its fiduciary obligations under applicable law, for so long as the Corporation directly or indirectly controls NYSE Alternext US LLC (or its successor), the Board shall not adopt any resolution pursuant to clause (2) of Section 1(B) of Article V of the Certificate of Incorporation unless the Board shall have determined that:
 
          (1) in the case of a resolution to approve the exercise of voting rights in excess of 20% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on such matter, neither such Person nor any of its Related Persons is a "member," as defined in Sections 3(a)(3)(A)(i), 3(a)(3)(A)(ii), 3(a)(3)(A)(iii) and 3(a)(3)(A)(iv) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, of NYSE Alternext US LLC (or its successor) (a "Member") (any such Person that is a Related Person of such member shall hereinafter also be deemed to be a "Member" for purposes of these Bylaws, as the context may require); and
          (2) in the case of a resolution to approve the entering into of an agreement, plan or other arrangement under circumstances that would result in shares of stock of the Corporation that would be subject to such agreement, plan or other arrangement not being voted on any matter, or the withholding of any proxy relating thereto, where the effect of such agreement, plan or other arrangement would be to enable any Person, but for Article V of the Certificate of Incorporation, either alone or together with its Related Persons, to vote, possess the right to vote or cause the voting of shares of stock of the Corporation that would exceed 20% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on such matter (assuming that all shares of stock of the Corporation that are subject to such agreement, plan or other arrangement are not outstanding votes entitled to be cast on such matter), neither such Person nor any of its Related Persons is, with respect to NYSE Alternext US LLC (or its successor), a Member.
          (B) Subject to its fiduciary obligations under applicable law, for so long as the Corporation directly or indirectly controls NYSE Alternext US LLC (or its successor), the Board shall not adopt any resolution pursuant to clause (2) of Section 2(B) of Article V of the Certificate of Incorporation, unless the Board shall have determined that neither such Person nor any of its Related Persons is a Member.
          (C) For the purposes of this Section 10.12, "Person" shall have the meaning assigned in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as it shall be in effect from time to time.
          (D) "Related Person" shall have the meaning assigned by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as it shall be in effect from time to time.
          Section 10.13. . For so long as the Corporation shall control, directly or indirectly, NYSE Alternext US LLC (or its successor), the Board of Directors shall not adopt any resolution to repeal or amend any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation unless such amendment or repeal shall either be (A) filed with or filed with and approved by the SEC under Section 19 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder or (B) submitted to the board of directors of NYSE Alternext US LLC (or the board of directors of its successor), and if such board of directors determines that such amendment or repeal must be filed with or filed with and approved by the SEC under Section 19 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder before such amendment or repeal may be effectuated, then such amendment or repeal shall not be effectuated until filed with or filed with and approved by the SEC, as the case may be.
Amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation


