FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20100325170700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
     As previously announced, beginning in the first quarter of 2010, NYSE Euronext will report results in three reportable business segments: Derivatives; Cash Trading and Listings; and Information Services and Technology Solutions. This Form 8-K provides information on this change in segment reporting and a summary of the effects of this change on our 2009 historical segment results of operations. This change in segment reporting will be reflected retrospectively but in no way revises or restates our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity and Comprehensive Income or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for any period.
     Our new reportable segments are focused on NYSE Euronext's three primary global business units and are determined based on the management of such business units and the services provided and products sold by each business unit. Derivatives is comprised of our derivatives trading and clearing businesses and includes NYSE Liffe, NYSE Liffe Clearing, Bclear, NYSE Liffe US and NYSE Amex Options and related derivatives market data. Cash Trading and Listings consists of our cash trading and listings businesses and includes the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext, NYSE Amex, NYSE Arca, NYSE Alternext, NYSE Arca Europe and SmartPool, as well as BlueNext and InterBolsa, and related cash trading market data. Information Services and Technology Solutions refers to our commercial technology transactions, data and infrastructure businesses and includes NYSE Technologies.
     The new reporting segments were determined based primarily on how NYSE Euronext's chief operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. We recently evaluated our revenue and expense allocation methodologies and are now able to produce discrete financial information for each of our new business segments. Our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews such discrete financial information to make decisions about resources to be allocated to each segment and to assess its performance.
     The change to our reportable business segments was effective as of January 1, 2010. All segment financial information, beginning in the first quarter of 2010, will reflect this change. This change will be reflected on a retrospective basis, with prior years also adjusted to reflect the change in segments. NYSE Euronext is issuing this Form 8-K in order to provide investors with 2009 summary financial information and historical data that is consistent with our new reporting structure. Exhibits 99.1 through 99.6 provide quarterly financial summary information by reportable segment for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Certain items in the table above have been reclassified to conform to the anticipated presentation in our 2010 results of operations. To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses, exit costs and other special items and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this filing.

Exhibit 99.2
Certain items in the table above have been reclassified to conform to the anticipated presentation in our 2010 results of operations. To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses, exit costs and other special items and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this filing.

Exhibit 99.3
Certain items in the table above have been reclassified to conform to the anticipated presentation in our 2010 results of operations. To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses, exit costs and other special items and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this filing.

Exhibit 99.4
Certain items in the table above have been reclassified to conform to the anticipated presentation in our 2010 results of operations. To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses, exit costs and other special items and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this filing.

Exhibit 99.5
Certain items in the table above have been reclassified to conform to the anticipated presentation in our 2010 results of operations. To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses, exit costs and other special items and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this filing.

Exhibit 99.6
Certain items in the table above have been reclassified to conform to the anticipated presentation in our 2010 results of operations. To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses, exit costs and other special items and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this filing.


