FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20110516172526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[X]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01  OTHER EVENTS
 
On May 16, 2011, NYSE Euronext
issued a press release acknowledging the withdrawal of the proposal from NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. to acquire all outstanding shares of NYSE Euronext.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 (d)      Exhibits
                               
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
                                                             NYSE Euronext
 
Dated: May 16, 2011                           By:
   /s/  Janet L. McGinness             
                                             
                                                             Name:     Janet L. McGinness
                                                             Title:       Senior Vice President &
                                                                            Corporate Secretary
                                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NYSE EURONEXT ACKNOWLEDGES WITHDRAWAL OF PROPOSAL BY NASDAQ OMX GROUP, INC. AND INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE, INC.
NEW YORK, N.Y., May 16, 2011
 NYSE Euronext (NYSE: NYX) today acknowledged the withdrawal of the proposal from Nasdaq OMX Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: NDAQ) and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (NYSE: ICE) to acquire all outstanding shares of NYSE Euronext.
"As we have consistently maintained, the combination with Deutsche Boerse creates the world's premier exchange group -- a geographically diverse business across multiple asset classes that will create compelling long term value for our shareholders. We look forward to continuing to share this vision with shareholders and other stakeholders as we move toward our vote on July 7
th
," said Duncan L. Niederauer, Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext."
NYSE Euronext's financial advisers are Perella Weinberg Partners, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Goldman, Sachs and Co., and Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc. Its legal advisers are Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, Stibbe N.V. and Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP.
Contacts:
Robert J. Rendine                                + 1.212.656.2180
Rich Adamonis                                    + 1.212.656.2140
George Sard/Paul Verbinnen             + 1.212.687.8080
Investor Relations:
Stephen Davidson                               + 1 212 656 2183
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is a leading global operator of financial markets and provider of innovative trading technologies. The company's exchanges in Europe and the United States trade equities, futures, options, fixed-income and exchange-traded products. With approximately 8,000 listed issues (excluding European Structured Products), NYSE Euronext's equities markets -the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext, NYSE Amex, NYSE Alternext and NYSE Arca - represent one-third of the world's equities trading, the most liquidity of any global exchange group. NYSE Euronext also operates NYSE Liffe, one of the leading European derivatives businesses and the world's second-largest derivatives business by value of trading. The company offers comprehensive commercial technology, connectivity and market data products and services through NYSE Technologies. NYSE Euronext is in the S&P 500 index, and is the only exchange operator in the Fortune 500. For more information, please visit:
http://www.nyx.com
.
Safe Harbour Statement
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG, Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding N.V. ("Holding"), a newly formed holding company, has filed, and the SEC has declared effective on May 3, 2011, a Registration Statement on Form F-4 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that includes (1) a proxy statement of NYSE Euronext that also constitutes a prospectus for Holding and (2) an offering prospectus of Holding to be used in connection with Holding's offer to acquire Deutsche Boerse AG shares held by U.S. holders. Holding has also filed an offer document with the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (
Bundesanstalt fuer Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht
)
 
("BaFin"), which was approved by the BaFin for publication pursuant to the German Takeover Act (
Wertpapiererwerbs-und bernahmegesetz
) on May 2, 2011, and was published on May 4, 2011.
Investors and security holders are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus, the offering prospectus and the offer document regarding the proposed business combination transaction because they contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the definitive proxy statement/prospectus, the offering prospectus and other related documents filed by NYSE Euronext and Holding with the SEC on the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov. The definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other documents relating thereto may also be obtained for free by accessing NYSE Euronext's Web site at www.nyse.com. The offer document is available at Holding's Web site at www.global-exchange-operator.com.
This document is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell shares of Holding, Deutsche Boerse AG or NYSE Euronext. The final terms and further provisions regarding the public offer are disclosed in the offer document that has been approved by the BaFin and in documents that have been filed with the SEC.
No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable European regulations. Subject to certain exceptions to be approved by the relevant regulators or certain facts to be ascertained, the public offer is not being made directly or indirectly in or into any jurisdiction where to do so would constitute a violation of the laws of such jurisdiction, or by use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality (including without limitation, facsimile transmission, telephone and the internet) of interstate or foreign commerce, or any facility of a national securities exchange, of any such jurisdiction.
This announcement and related materials do not constitute in France an offer for ordinary shares in Holding. The relevant final terms of the proposed business combination transaction will be disclosed in the information documents reviewed by the competent European market authorities.
Participants in the Solicitation
NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse AG, Holding and their respective directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NYSE Euronext stockholders in respect of the proposed business combination transaction. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC.
Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes forward-looking statements about NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse AG, Holding, the enlarged group and other persons, which may include statements about the proposed business combination, the likelihood that such transaction could be consummated, the effects of any transaction on the businesses of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Boerse AG, and other statements that are not historical facts. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and the development of the industries in which NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG operate may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this document. Any forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this document. Except as required by applicable law, none of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse AG or Holding undertakes any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
# # #
 


