FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20110502165548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.07 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
The stockholders of NYSE Euronext voted on seven proposals at the annual stockholders' meeting held on April 28, 2011:
1. To elect 16 directors of NYSE Euronext to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
2. To act upon a proposal to ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as NYSE Euronext's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011.
3. To act upon a Company proposal to amend its certificate of incorporation to eliminate certain supermajority voting requirements.
4. To act upon, on a non-binding, advisory basis, a Company proposal to approve executive compensation ("Say-on-Pay" Proposal).
5. To act upon, on a non-binding, advisory basis, a Company proposal to determine the frequency of the non-binding, advisory vote to approve executive compensation ("Say-When-On-Pay" Proposal).
6. To act upon a stockholder proposal regarding the power of stockholders to call special meetings.
7. To act upon a stockholder proposal regarding stockholder action by written consent.
The final results for each of the matters submitted to a vote of stockholders at the annual meeting are as follows:
: All of the director nominees were elected to NYSE Euronext's Board of Directors based upon the following votes:
Proposal No. 1
 
There were 44,796,364 broker non-votes for this proposal.
The proposal to ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as NYSE Euronext's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 received the following votes:
Proposal No. 2:
 
 
 
There were no broker non-votes for this proposal.
The proposal to amend the certificate of incorporation to eliminate certain supermajority voting requirements received the following votes:
Proposal No. 3:
 
 
 
There were no broker non-votes for this proposal.
The "Say-On-Pay" Proposal received the following votes:
Proposal No. 4:
 
 
 
There were 44,796,364 broker non-votes for this proposal.
The "Say-When-On-Pay" Proposal received the following votes:
Proposal No. 5:
 
 
 
 
There were 52,274,539 broker non-votes for this proposal.
The stockholder proposal regarding the power of stockholders to call special meetings received the following votes:
Proposal No. 6:
 
 
 
There were 44,796,364 broker non-votes for this proposal.
The stockholder proposal regarding stockholder action by written consent received the following votes:
Proposal No. 7:
 
 
 
There were 44,796,364 broker non-votes for this proposal.
A copy of the press release announcing the results of the stockholder vote is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
New York, May 2, 2011  At the Company's annual stockholders' meeting held on April 28, 2011, NYSE Euronext () shareholders:
NYX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To be approved, the proposal to adopt a simple majority vote requirement to amend or repeal certain provisions in the Company's charter required the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the shares of our outstanding stock entitled to be voted at the meeting. The proposal received the support of 94.66% of the shares of our outstanding stock actually voted but only 75.45% the shares of our outstanding stock entitled to be voted, and therefore the proposal was not approved.
Among the 16 elected directors is Dominique Cerutti, the Company's president and deputy chief executive officer and head of Global Technology, who is a newly elected member of the Board. Mr. Cerutti has considerable experience in leading the business operations of a global technology company, where he served in several senior leadership roles. Prior to joining NYSE Euronext, Mr. Cerutti served as general manager of IBM Southwest Europe from 2005 until 2009. For more details click here:
http://www.nyse.com/corpgovernance/1261133696939.html
The Company's Inspector of Elections, MacKenzie Partners, Inc., informed the Company of the following shareholder vote results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is a leading global operator of financial markets and provider of innovative trading technologies. The company's exchanges in Europe and the United States trade equities, futures, options, fixed-income and exchange-traded products. With approximately 8,000 listed issues (excluding European Structured Products), NYSE Euronext's equities markets  the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext, NYSE Amex, NYSE Alternext and NYSE Arca  represent one-third of the world's equities trading, the most liquidity of any global exchange group. NYSE Euronext also operates NYSE Liffe, one of the leading European derivatives businesses and the world's second-largest derivatives business by value of trading. The company offers comprehensive commercial technology, connectivity and market data products and services through NYSE Technologies. NYSE Euronext is in the S&P 500 index, and is the only exchange operator in the Fortune 500. For more information, please visit: http://www.nyx.com.


