FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20110216172338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 15, 2011, NYSE Euronext, a Delaware corporation ("NYSE Euronext"), and Deutsche Brse AG, a company organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Deutsche Brse"), entered into a Business Combination Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2011 (the "Business Combination Agreement"), pursuant to which they agreed to combine their respective businesses and become subsidiaries of a newly formed Dutch holding company (the "Transaction").
Under the terms of the Business Combination Agreement, Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding N.V., a newly created holding company organized under the laws of the Netherlands, ("Holding"), shall make a public tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of Deutsche Brse (the "Offer"). In the Offer, Deutsche Brse shareholders will be asked to tender each of their Deutsche Brse ordinary shares in exchange for one ordinary share of Holding. Immediately following the acquisition of validly tendered Deutsche Brse shares pursuant to the Offer, Pomme Merger Corporation, a wholly owned Delaware subsidiary of Holding, will merge with and into NYSE Euronext, with NYSE Euronext surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Holding (the "Merger"). In the Merger, each share of NYSE Euronext common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.47 of a Holding ordinary share. Assuming that all Deutsche Brse shares are tendered into the Offer, it is expected that the former Deutsche Brse shareholders would own 60% of the equity of Holding, and the former NYSE Euronext shareholders would own 40% of the equity of Holding, on a fully diluted basis. As a result of the Offer and the Merger, each of Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext will become a subsidiary of Holding.
After the Transaction, Holding's ordinary shares are expected to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris. The combined company is expected to have dual headquarters located in New York and Frankfurt, with key businesses, infrastructure and executives located in Paris, London, Luxembourg and other locations.
Under the terms of the Business Combination Agreement, Reto Francioni, who is currently Chief Executive Officer of Deutsche Brse, will become the Chairman of Holding, and Duncan Niederauer, who is currently Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext, will become the Chief Executive Officer of Holding. The Board of Directors of Holding will consist of 17 directors, seven of whom are to be designated by NYSE Euronext (including the CEO of Holding) and 10 of whom are to be designated by Deutsche Brse (including the Chairman of Holding). The companies have agreed to a balanced governance structure to be implemented through Holding's Articles of Association, Rules for the Board of Directors and Rules for the Global Executive Committee. The Global Executive Committee will consist of members drawn equally from NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse.
The Business Combination Agreement contains mutual customary representations and warranties of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse relating to their respective businesses and public filings. Additionally, the Business Combination Agreement provides for customary pre-closing covenants, including the obligation of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse to conduct
their businesses in the ordinary and usual course consistent with past practice and to refrain from taking certain actions without receiving consent of the other party.
Completion of the Transaction will be subject to the satisfaction (or waiver, if legally permitted) of conditions, including: (a) approval of the Merger by holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of NYSE Euronext common stock, (b) the tender in the Offer of at least 75% of the outstanding Deutsche Brse shares, (c) approval by requisite governmental regulators and authorities, including approvals under applicable competition laws and approval by the relevant exchange regulators and, if required, approval by the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States (CFIUS) under the Exon-Florio Amendment, (d) the listing of the Holding ordinary shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris, (e) the absence of certain governmental proceedings, (f) absence of any law or order prohibiting the completion of the Transaction, (g) the receipt of certain tax rulings and (h) that there has been no material adverse effect on either NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse as judged by a third-party independent expert.
The Business Combination Agreement, including the forms of Holding's Articles of Association, Rules for the Board of Directors and Rules for the Global Executive Committee, is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to such documents.
 
On February 15, 2011, the published on its website an interview with Duncan Niederauer, Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext. The text of the interview is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Wall Street Journal
 
 
 
 Schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. NYSE Euronext hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally copies of any of the omitted schedules upon request by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 Schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. NYSE Euronext hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally copies of any of the omitted schedules upon request by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This BUSINESS COMBINATION AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of February 15, 2011, is by and among NYSE Euronext, a Delaware corporation (""), Deutsche Brse AG, an organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany (""), Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding N.V., a organized under the laws of the Netherlands (""), and Pomme Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a newly formed, wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco ("").
Agreement
NYSE Euronext
Aktiengesellschaft
Deutsche Brse
naamloze vennootschap
Holdco
Merger Sub
WHEREAS, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse desire to effect a strategic combination of their businesses;
WHEREAS, in furtherance thereof, the parties hereto propose that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement: (a) Holdco shall make a public tender offer following the legal provisions of the German Securities Acquisition and Takeover Act () (as amended from time to time, the "") and the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the ""), to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Deutsche Brse (the ""), pursuant to which each Deutsche Brse Share tendered and not withdrawn and accepted for exchange shall be exchanged for one (the "") ordinary share, nominal value 1.00 per share, of Holdco ("") (such offer, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with this Agreement, the ""); and (b) immediately following the acquisition of Deutsche Brse Shares pursuant to the Offer, Merger Sub shall merge with and into NYSE Euronext (the ""), with NYSE Euronext surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco, pursuant to which each share of NYSE Euronext common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), shall be converted into the right to receive 0.47 (the "") of a Holdco Share;
Wertpapiererwerbs- und bernahmegesetz
Takeover Act
Exchange Act
Deutsche Brse Shares
Deutsche Brse Exchange Ratio
Holdco Share
Offer
Merger
NYSE Euronext Shares
NYSE Euronext Exchange Ratio
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext has determined that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consistent with, and will further, the business strategies and goals of NYSE Euronext, and are in the best interests of the NYSE Euronext stockholders, as well as its employees and other stakeholders, and (a) has approved and declared advisable this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Merger and (b) has determined, subject to applicable Law, to recommend that the NYSE Euronext stockholders adopt this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (such recommendation, the "");
NYSE Euronext Recommendation
WHEREAS, each of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Brse and the Management Board of Deutsche Brse (together, the "") has
Deutsche Brse Boards
determined that the Offer and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consistent with, and will further, the business strategies and goals of Deutsche Brse, and are in the best interests of Deutsche Brse, its shareholders, employees and other stakeholders and (a) has approved the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Offer, and (b) has determined that, subject to its duties under applicable Law, it will recommend, in its statement on the Offer under Section 27 of the Takeover Act, that the Deutsche Brse shareholders accept the Offer and tender their Deutsche Brse Shares in the Offer (such recommendations of each of the Deutsche Brse Boards collectively, the "");
Deutsche Brse Recommendation
WHEREAS, the sole shareholder of Holdco and the Board of Directors of Holdco (the "") has determined that the Merger and the Offer and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consistent with, and will further, the business strategies and goals of Holdco, and are in the best interests of Holdco and its shareholders and has approved this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Offer, the Merger and the Holdco Capital Increase;
Holdco Board
WHEREAS, each of Holdco, as the sole shareholder of Merger Sub, and the Board of Directors of Merger Sub has determined that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consistent with, and will further, the business strategies and goals of Merger Sub, and are in the best interests of Merger Sub and its stockholder and has approved this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Merger;
WHEREAS, it is intended that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, (i) the Merger shall qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and/or the Merger and the Offer, taken together, shall qualify as a transaction described in Section 351(a) of the Code, (ii) the Merger shall qualify for an exception to the general rule of Section 367(a)(1) of the Code, (iii) the Offer, and/or the Merger and the Offer, taken together, shall qualify as a transaction described in Section 351(a) of the Code, and (iv) this Agreement shall be, and is hereby, adopted as a "plan of reorganization";
Code
WHEREAS, it is intended that, for German tax purposes, the Offer is intended not to result in the recognition of any taxable gain or loss by the shareholders of Deutsche Brse; and
WHEREAS, each of the parties hereto desires to make certain representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in connection with this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
Section 1.1. .
The Offer
(a) On the date of this Agreement, Holdco will (i) notify the relevant stock exchanges and the German Federal Agency for Financial Services Supervision () ("") of its intention to make the Offer, and (ii) publish its decision to launch the Offer (the "") in accordance with Section 10 para. 1 sentence 1, para. 3 of the Takeover Act, which Offer Announcement shall include a description of the Offer Consideration and such further information about the Offer as deemed to be necessary or beneficial by the parties for further communication with shareholders until the Offer has been cleared by BaFin. On the date hereof, Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext shall also issue an initial press release pursuant to Section 7.7, and Deutsche Brse shall issue an ad-hoc release in accordance with Section 15 of the German Securities Dealing Act () to the effect that, in the opinion of each of the Deutsche Brse Boards, a strategic business combination between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse is in the best interest of Deutsche Brse and its shareholders, and that therefore each of the Deutsche Brse Boards has determined that, subject to its duties under applicable Law, it will recommend, in its statement on the Offer under Section 27 of the Takeover Act, that the Deutsche Brse shareholders accept the Offer and tender their Deutsche Brse Shares in the Offer. The wording of the Offer Announcement required by this Section 1.1(a) shall be, to the extent reasonably practicable, agreed between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse in advance.
Announcement of the Offer.
Bundesanstalt fr Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht
BaFin
Offer Announcement
Wertpapierhandelsgesetz
(b) . As promptly as practicable after the date of this Agreement, NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse and Holdco shall prepare, and Holdco shall file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") one or more registration statements on Form F-4 (together with any supplements or amendments thereto, the "") to register the offer and sale of Holdco Shares to be issued pursuant to the Offer and the Merger. The Registration Statement will include (1) a proxy statement/prospectus (the "") to be used for the NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting to adopt this Agreement and to approve certain aspects of the Holdco articles of association that will be in effect after the Merger and (2) a prospectus to be used as a prospectus sent to U.S. holders of Deutsche Brse Shares (and, if NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse mutually agree, the holders of American Depositary Shares representing the right to receive Deutsche Brse Shares) for the Offer (the "" and together with the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the ""). If Holdco shall file the Registration Statement with the SEC prior to the date on which BaFin approves the Tender Offer Prospectus (or, if earlier, the expiration of the review period required under the Takeover Act), then Holdco shall file such Registration Statement with the SEC on a confidential basis to the extent a confidential filing is permitted by the SEC. Timely prior to the Acceptance Time, NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse and Holdco
Submission of Offer Documents to Regulators
SEC
Registration Statement
Proxy Statement/Prospectus
U.S. Tender Offer Prospectus
F-4 Prospectuses
 
shall prepare, and Holdco shall submit to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets () (the "") for the purpose of admission of the Holdco Shares to trading on the regulated markets of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris, (i) a listing prospectus (the ""), in accordance with applicable Dutch Law (which shall be identical with the Offer Documents in terms of content relating to NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse, and Holdco and their respective businesses to the greatest extent practicable) and (ii) applications for notification of the admission prospectus to the relevant authorities in Germany and France. On the date that is eight weeks following the Offer Announcement or such earlier time as may be required by applicable Law, Holdco shall submit to BaFin a tender offer document () in accordance with the Takeover Act, including as an annex the listing and offering disclosure information as required by Section 7 German Securities Prospectus Act () in combination with Commission regulation (EC) No. 809/2004 of 29 April 2004 and any further disclosure information as deemed necessary or beneficial by the parties (the "" and, together with the F-4 Prospectuses, the "") and the related letter of transmittal form and other ancillary documents with respect to the Offer; that, if the parties agree, Holdco may, in lieu of submitting the Tender Offer Prospectus to BaFin, (x) submit to BaFin a tender offer document containing the information pursuant to Section 11 of the Takeover Act and, in addition, (y) submit to the AFM a securities prospectus containing the listing and offering disclosure information required by applicable Dutch Law in combination with Commission regulation (EC) No. 809/2004 of 29 April 2004 and any further disclosure information as deemed necessary or beneficial by the parties (in which case, such tender offer document and securities prospectus together shall constitute the "Tender Offer Prospectus" for purposes of this Agreement), for the purpose of passporting such securities prospectus that is compliant with the relevant prospectus regulations for the offer of Holdco Shares as consideration in the Offer and the Merger. Subject to applicable Law, NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse and Holdco agree that the information relating to NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse and Holdco and their respective businesses included in the Offer Documents shall be identical in terms of content to the greatest extent practicable. The parties agree to correct promptly any information provided by it for use in the Offer Documents if and to the extent that such information shall have become false or misleading in any material respect or as otherwise required by applicable Law. The disclosure in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus of material U.S. federal income tax consequences of the Merger to holders of NYSE Euronext common stock shall include a description of material U.S. federal income tax consequences of the Merger to holders of NYSE Euronext common stock in the event of a waiver of the condition set forth in paragraph II.(b)(ii) of Annex II. Subject to Section 7.4(c), the parties further agree to take all steps necessary to cause the Offer Documents, as so corrected, to be filed with the SEC, BaFin and, if applicable, the AFM, and to be disseminated to holders of NYSE Euronext Shares and Deutsche Brse Shares, as applicable, in each case as and to the extent required by applicable Law. As soon as practicable prior to the consummation of the Offer and the Merger, Holdco shall apply for admission of its entire issued share capital to trading on
Autoriteit Financile Markten
AFM
Admission Prospectus
Angebotsunterlage
Wertpapierprospektgesetz
Tender Offer Prospectus
Offer Documents
provided
 
the regulated markets of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris on the basis of the Admission Prospectus.
(c) . Following approval by BaFin (or the expiration of the review period required under the Takeover Act) of the terms of the Offer and the Tender Offer Prospectus filed by Holdco as set forth in Section 1.1(b), Holdco shall (i) publish the Tender Offer Prospectus without undue delay () in accordance with Section 14 para. 2 of the Takeover Act and, thereby, commence the Offer, and (ii) on the date of such publication, file with the SEC the U.S. Tender Offer Prospectus, together with the related letter of transmittal form and other ancillary documents with respect to the Offer, pursuant to Rule 424 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") and disseminate the U.S. Tender Offer Prospectus and such documents to the Deutsche Brse shareholders in accordance with Rule 14d-4 promulgated under the Exchange Act. If permitted by applicable Law, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse may mutually agree that Holdco shall split the Offer into two or more separate exchange offers, including a separate U.S. offer and a non-U.S. offer. If the Offer shall be split into multiple exchange offers, each reference to the "Offer" set forth in this Agreement and the Annexes hereto shall refer to each of these separate offers unless the context otherwise requires.
Commencement of the Offer
ohne schuldhaftes Zgern
Securities Act
(d) . Each Deutsche Brse Share accepted by Holdco pursuant to the Offer (including during the subsequent offering period ()) shall be exchanged for one Holdco Share (the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if between the date of this Agreement and the time that any particular Deutsche Brse Share is accepted for exchange pursuant to the Offer, the outstanding NYSE Euronext Shares or Deutsche Brse Shares shall have been changed into a different number of shares or a different class by reason of any stock dividend, subdivision, reclassification, recapitalization, split, combination or exchange of shares, or any similar event shall have occurred, then the Offer Consideration will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted to provide to the holder of such Deutsche Brse Share the same economic effect as contemplated by this Agreement prior to such event.
Offer Consideration
weitere Annahmefrist
Offer Consideration
(e) . The Offer shall have an acceptance period that ends at a time (such time, as it may be extended in accordance with this Agreement and applicable Laws, the "") on a date that is the earlier of (i) 10 weeks after the commencement of the Offer pursuant to Section 1.1(c) and (ii) the Termination Date; that (A) in no event shall the Expiration Time occur on a date that is earlier than 20 business days (as defined in Rule 14d-1(g)(3) under the Exchange Act) after (and including the day of) the date of commencement of the Offer; and (B) Holdco shall be permitted to extend the Expiration Time if such extension is permitted by applicable Law and NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse mutually agree to such extension.
Acceptance Period of the Offer
Expiration Time
provided
(f) . Holdco's obligation to accept for exchange, and to exchange, any Deutsche Brse Shares validly tendered and not
Conditions to the Offer
 
withdrawn prior to the expiration of the Offer shall be solely () subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions () set forth in (the ""), including the condition that there shall be validly tendered in accordance with the terms of the Offer prior to the Expiration Time and not withdrawn, in each case in accordance with applicable Laws, a number of Deutsche Brse Shares that represents at least 75% of the Deutsche Brse Shares outstanding on a Fully Diluted Basis as of the Expiration Time (the ""). As used in this Agreement, "" means, as of any particular time, the number of Deutsche Brse Shares issued and outstanding at such time after taking into account all Deutsche Brse Shares issuable upon the conversion of Deutsche Brse's convertible securities or upon the exercise of any options, warrants or rights to purchase or subscribe for shares of the capital stock of Deutsche Brse.
ausschlielich
aufschiebende Bedingungen
Annex II
Offer Conditions
Minimum Condition
Fully Diluted Basis
(g) . Prior to the date of commencement of the Offer, Deutsche Brse will reasonably determine the percentage of its share capital held by U.S. holders in accordance with Instruction 2 to subsections (c) and (d) of Exchange Act Rule 14d-1. If the conditions set forth for a "Tier II" offer, as set forth in Rule 14d-1(d) under the Exchange Act, are satisfied for the Offer, Holdco will conduct the Offer in reliance on the exemptions for "Tier II" offers pursuant to Rule 14d-1(d) under the Exchange Act. Subject to its duties under applicable Law, Deutsche Brse will provide such information as NYSE Euronext and Holdco reasonably request to allow NYSE Euronext and Holdco to make a determination that U.S. holders do not hold more than 40% of the outstanding Deutsche Brse Shares and will otherwise cooperate with their reasonable inquiries. The parties agree to comply with, and agree that the terms and conditions of the Offer shall be conducted so as to comply with, Regulation 14E of the Exchange Act, as modified by any applicable exemptions pursuant to Rule 14d-1(d)(2) under the Exchange Act.
Other Terms of the Offer
(h) . If BaFin permits the publication of the Tender Offer Prospectus only in a form that is not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the parties hereto shall in good faith cooperate to make changes to the Tender Offer Prospectus so as to be consistent with the changes required by BaFin and to be consistent with the original intent of the parties. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, nothing shall require the parties to agree to amend or waive any of the terms or conditions of the Offer contemplated by this Agreement without the prior written consent of both Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext, including any changes as to the form or amount of the Offer Consideration, the number of Deutsche Brse Shares sought to be purchased in the Offer, any changes to the conditions to the Offer or reduce the time period during which the Offer shall remain open, or any changes to modify or amend any term of the Offer in any manner that is adverse to either the holders of NYSE Euronext Shares or the holders of Deutsche Brse Shares. The parties understand and agree that, pursuant to Section 21 of the Takeover Act, a waiver or amendment of any of the Offer Conditions generally is only permitted until the end of the working day prior to the expiration date as published in the Tender Offer Prospectus.
Amendments and Waivers to Offer Terms and Conditions
 
(i) . Provided that this Agreement shall not have been earlier terminated in accordance with Article IX, and subject to the prior satisfaction or waiver of the Offer Conditions, Holdco shall promptly consummate the Offer in accordance with its terms and applicable Law, and accept for exchange, and exchange, all Deutsche Brse Shares validly tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to the Offer (the time that Holdco accepts for exchange, and exchanges, all of the Deutsche Brse Shares validly tendered and not withdrawn, the "").
Closing of the Offer
Acceptance Time
(j) . Following the Expiration Time and the satisfaction or waiver by Holdco of the Offer Conditions, with the exception of the Offer Conditions set forth in paragraphs I.(b), I.(c), I.(e), I.(f), I.(g), II.(b) and/or III.(b) of Annex II, Holdco shall conduct a subsequent offering period () for the Offer in accordance with the Takeover Law, during which Holdco shall offer to acquire all remaining outstanding Deutsche Brse Shares.
Subsequent Offering Period
weitere Annahmefrist
(k) . Holdco, Deutsche Brse and the Escrow Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the Offer Consideration otherwise required to be delivered to any tendering holder of Deutsche Brse Shares such amounts as it is required to deduct and withhold with respect to the making of such payment under the Code and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any provision of state, local or non-U.S. tax law. To the extent that amounts are so deducted and withheld by or on behalf of Holdco, Deutsche Brse or the Escrow Agent, as the case may be, and paid over to the applicable Governmental Entity, such deducted and withheld amounts shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of the Deutsche Brse Shares in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made.
Withholding
Section 1.2. . Unless NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse agree otherwise, and subject to applicable Law, the Offer shall not include any offer to acquire any outstanding option to purchase Deutsche Brse Shares, but, in accordance with the Takeover Act, shall include an offer to purchase any Deutsche Brse Share that is purchased or subscribed for as a result of the exercise of any such option prior to the Expiration Time.
Effect of the Offer on Deutsche Brse Stock Options
Section 1.3. . In connection with the Offer, Deutsche Brse shall, to the extent consistent with applicable Law, promptly furnish Holdco with such information and assistance as Holdco or its agent(s) may reasonably request for the purpose of communicating the Offer to the record and beneficial holders of Deutsche Brse Shares.
Cooperation to Transmit the Offer
Section 2.1. . As promptly as possible following the date hereof, Holdco shall appoint a United States bank or trust company or
Appointment of Escrow Agent
 
other independent financial institution in the United States reasonably satisfactory to Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext (the "") to act, among other things, as escrow agent and exchange agent for the Merger and to deliver the Merger Consideration to former stockholders of NYSE Euronext. NYSE Euronext and Holdco shall enter into an Escrow Agency Agreement with the Escrow Agent (the ""), which agreement shall set forth the duties, responsibilities and obligations of the Escrow Agent consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
Escrow Agent
Escrow Agency Agreement
Section 2.2. . Merger Sub is a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware and is a constituent company in the Merger. Except as provided in or contemplated by the immediately following sentence, Holdco owns 100% of the outstanding capital stock of Merger Sub. Solely to accommodate the transactions described in this Article II and subject to the terms and conditions of the Escrow Agency Agreement, at least one day prior to the Effective Time, Holdco shall cause the Escrow Agent to be registered as Holdco's fiduciary (for the period prior to the Effective Time) as the record holder of all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Merger Sub (the "").
Shares of Merger Sub
Merger Sub Shares
Section 2.3. . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended (the ""), at the Effective Time, the Merger shall occur pursuant to which Merger Sub shall merge with and into NYSE Euronext, with NYSE Euronext surviving the Merger (the "") and the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub shall thereupon cease. The Surviving Corporation shall continue to exist under the laws of the State of Delaware, with all its rights, privileges, immunities, powers and franchises, unaffected by the Merger except as set forth in this Article II. After the Merger, but subject to Section 2.6, the Surviving Corporation shall be a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco. The Merger shall have the effects specified in the DGCL.
The Merger
DGCL
Surviving Corporation
Section 2.4. . The closing of the Merger (the "") shall take place at the offices of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, 51 West 52
Closing
Closing
nd
Street, New York, New York 10019, on the date on which the Acceptance Time shall occur, unless a later date or place is agreed to by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse (the "").
Closing Date
Section 2.5. .
Effective Time
(a) On the Closing Date, NYSE Euronext shall file a certificate of merger relating to the Merger (the "") with the Secretary of State of Delaware, in such form as is required by and executed and acknowledged in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL, and shall make all other filings or recordings required under the DGCL.
Certificate of Merger
(b) The Merger shall become effective at (i) the date and time on which the Certificate of Merger is duly filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware as required to effect the Merger, or (ii) such subsequent date and time as NYSE Euronext
 
and Deutsche Brse shall agree and as shall be specified in the Certificate of Merger (such time that the Merger shall become effective being the ""). The parties agree to cause the Effective Time to occur immediately after the Acceptance Time.
Effective Time
Section 2.6. . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and the Escrow Agency Agreement, and in accordance with provisions of Section 2:94b of the Dutch Civil Code, as soon as possible after the Effective Time, on the Closing Date:
Merger Exchange
(a) The Escrow Agent, acting as exchange agent and solely for the account of the former stockholders of NYSE Euronext, shall contribute, for the account of the former stockholders of NYSE Euronext, all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation (""), that were issued to the Escrow Agent solely for the account and benefit of the former stockholders of NYSE Euronext pursuant to Section 2.7(b) to Holdco as a contribution in kind ().
Surviving Corporation Shares
inbreng op aandelen anders dan in geld
(b) In consideration of the contribution pursuant to Section 2.6(a), Holdco shall issue and deliver to the Escrow Agent solely for the account and benefit of the former stockholders of NYSE Euronext, the maximum number of Holdco Shares that has become issuable pursuant to Section 2.7(a)(i) for delivery to the Merger Consideration recipients entitled thereto (such Holdco Shares being the ""). At the Effective Time, the obligations of Holdco and the Escrow Agent under Section 2.6 shall be unconditional.
Exchange Fund
Section 2.7. .
Effect of the Merger on Shares
(a) As a result of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder of any capital stock of NYSE Euronext, Holdco, Deutsche Brse or Merger Sub, at the Effective Time:
(i) each NYSE Euronext Share issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than any NYSE Euronext Share owned directly by NYSE Euronext or Merger Sub and in each case not held on behalf of third parties (each, an "")) shall automatically be converted into the right to receive 0.47 of a fully paid and non-assessable Holdco Share (such number of a Holdco Share, the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, the outstanding NYSE Euronext Shares or Deutsche Brse Shares shall have been changed into a different number of shares or a different class, by reason of any stock dividend, subdivision, reclassification, recapitalization, split, combination or exchange of shares, or any similar event shall have occurred, then the Merger Consideration will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted to provide to the holder of such NYSE Euronext Share the same economic effect as contemplated by this Agreement prior to such event;
Excluded Share
Merger Consideration
 
(ii) each Excluded Share shall cease to be outstanding, shall be cancelled and retired without payment of any consideration therefor and shall cease to exist; and
(iii) each Merger Sub Share issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall no longer be outstanding, be canceled and retired.
(b) Immediately following the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall issue to the Escrow Agent, solely for the account and benefit of the former stockholders of NYSE Euronext, a number of Surviving Corporation Shares equal to the total number of NYSE Euronext Shares outstanding immediately prior to the Merger.
(c) From and after the Effective Time, no NYSE Euronext Shares shall remain outstanding and all NYSE Euronext Shares shall be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist. Each entry in the records of NYSE Euronext or its transfer agent formerly representing NYSE Euronext Shares (the "") shall thereafter represent only the right to receive the Merger Consideration and any distribution or dividend pursuant to Section 2.9(c). From and after the Effective Time, there shall be no further registration of transfers on the stock transfer books of the Surviving Corporation of NYSE Euronext Shares that were outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time. If, after the Effective Time, any Book-Entry Interests formerly representing NYSE Euronext Shares are presented to the Surviving Corporation or the Escrow Agent for any reason, they shall be canceled and exchanged as provided in this Article II.
Book-Entry Interests
(d) In accordance with Section 262 of the DGCL, no appraisal rights shall be available to holders of NYSE Euronext Shares in connection with the Merger.
Section 2.8. .
Effect of the Merger on NYSE Euronext Stock Options and Awards
(a) Each option to purchase NYSE Euronext Shares (a "") granted under the employee and director stock plans of NYSE Euronext (the ""), whether vested or unvested, that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall cease to represent a right to acquire NYSE Euronext Shares and shall be converted, at the Effective Time, into a stock option to acquire Holdco Shares (a "") on substantially the same terms and conditions as were applicable under such NYSE Euronext Stock Option. The number of Holdco Shares subject to each such Holdco Stock Option (rounded down to the nearest whole share) shall be equal to the number of NYSE Euronext Shares subject to each such NYSE Euronext Stock Option immediately prior to the Effective Time multiplied by the Merger Consideration (as adjusted pursuant to Section 2.7(a)(i)), and such Holdco Stock Option shall have an exercise price per share (rounded up to the nearest penny) equal to the per-share exercise price applicable to such NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext Stock Option
NYSE Euronext Stock Plans
Holdco Stock Option
 
Stock Option immediately prior to the Effective Time divided by the Merger Consideration (as adjusted pursuant to Section 2.7(a)(i)).
(b) At the Effective Time, subject to the last sentence of this Section 2.8(b), each restricted stock unit or deferred stock unit measured in NYSE Euronext Shares (each, an ""), whether vested or unvested, which is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall cease to represent a restricted stock unit or deferred stock unit with respect to NYSE Euronext Shares and shall be converted, at the Effective Time, into a restricted stock unit or deferred stock unit denominated in Holdco Shares (a "") on substantially the same terms and conditions as were applicable under the NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Awards. The number of Holdco Shares subject to each such Holdco Stock-Based Award (rounded down to the nearest whole share) shall be equal to the number of NYSE Euronext Shares subject to the NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Award immediately prior to the Effective Time multiplied by the Merger Consideration (as adjusted pursuant to Section 2.7(a)(i)). All restricted stock units granted under NYSE Euronext's Omnibus Incentive Plan or under NYSE Euronext's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan that are outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall (i) to the extent unvested, vest as of the Effective Time, and (ii) be distributed as of the Effective Time; that, with respect to any such units that constitute deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, such distribution shall occur on the date that it would occur under the applicable award agreement absent the application of this Section 2.8(b)(ii).
NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Award
Holdco Stock-Based Award
provided
(c) As soon as practicable after the Effective Time, Holdco shall deliver to the holders of NYSE Euronext Stock Options and NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Awards appropriate notices setting forth such holders' rights pursuant to the respective NYSE Euronext Stock Plans and agreements evidencing the grants of such NYSE Euronext Stock Options and NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Awards and stating that such NYSE Euronext Stock Options and NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Awards and agreements have been assumed by Holdco and shall continue in effect on substantially the same terms and conditions (but subject to the adjustments required by this Section 2.8 after giving effect to the Merger and the terms of the NYSE Euronext Stock Plans and the Escrow Agency Agreement).
(d) Prior to the Effective Time, NYSE Euronext shall take all necessary action for the adjustment of NYSE Euronext Stock Options and NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Awards under this Section 2.8. Holdco shall reserve for issuance a number of Holdco Shares at least equal to the number of Holdco Shares that will be subject to Holdco Stock Options and Holdco Stock-Based Awards as a result of the actions contemplated by this Section 2.8.
(e) As soon as practicable following the Effective Time, Holdco shall file a registration statement on Form S-8 (or any successor form, or if Form S-8 is not available, other appropriate forms) with respect to the Holdco Shares subject to such Holdco Stock Options and Holdco Stock-Based Awards and shall maintain the
 
effectiveness of such registration statement or registration statements (and maintain the current status of the prospectus or prospectuses contained therein) for so long as such Holdco Stock Options and Holdco Stock-Based Awards remain outstanding.
Section 2.9. .
Delivery of Merger Consideration
(a) . NYSE Euronext and Holdco shall cause appropriate transmittal materials (the "") to be provided by the Escrow Agent to holders of record of NYSE Euronext Shares (other than holders of Excluded Shares) as soon as practicable after the Effective Time advising such holders of the effectiveness of the Merger and the procedure for providing instructions to the Escrow Agent to effect the transfer and cancellation of Book-Entry Interests in exchange for the Merger Consideration. The Merger Transmittal Letter shall contain such other terms and conditions as NYSE Euronext and Holdco may reasonably specify.
Merger Transmittal Letter
Merger Transmittal Letter
(b) . After the Effective Time, and upon delivery to the Escrow Agent of instructions authorizing transfer and cancellation of Book-Entry Interests in accordance with the terms of the Merger Transmittal Letter and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Escrow Agent, the holder of such Book-Entry Interests shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor, and the Escrow Agent shall be required to deliver to each such holder (subject to Section 2.9(f)), (i) the number of Holdco Shares in respect of the aggregate Merger Consideration that such holder is entitled to receive pursuant to Section 2.7 (after taking into account all NYSE Euronext Shares then held by such holder), and (ii) any cash in lieu of fractional shares which the holder has the right to receive pursuant to Section 2.9(d) and in respect of any dividends or other distributions which the holder has the right to receive pursuant to Section 2.9(c). The Book-Entry Interests that are the subject of such authorization shall forthwith be cancelled. No interest will be paid or accrued on any amount payable upon such transfer and cancellation of any Book-Entry Interests. The Holdco Shares issued and paid in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.9(b) upon conversion of any NYSE Euronext Shares (including any cash paid in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to Section 2.09(d)) shall be deemed to have been issued and paid in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to such NYSE Euronext Shares. In the event of a transfer of ownership of any NYSE Euronext Shares that is not registered in the transfer records of NYSE Euronext, the proper number of Holdco Shares may be transferred by the Escrow Agent to such a transferee if written instructions authorizing the transfer of the Book-Entry Interests are presented to the Escrow Agent, in any case, accompanied by all documents required to evidence and effect such transfer and to evidence that any applicable stock transfer Taxes have been paid. If any Holdco Shares are to be delivered to a Person other than the holder in whose name any Book-Entry Interests are registered, it shall be a condition of such exchange that the Person requesting such delivery shall pay any transfer or other similar Taxes required by reason of the transfer of Holdco Shares to a Person other than the registered holder of any Book-Entry Interests, or shall establish to the satisfaction of Holdco or the Escrow Agent that such Tax has been paid or is not applicable. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited
Merger Consideration
Person
 
liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization, Governmental Entity or Self-Regulatory Organization or other entity of any kind or nature. "" means any U.S. or non-U.S. commission, board, agency or body that is not a Governmental Entity but is charged with the supervision or regulation of brokers, dealers, securities underwriting or trading, stock exchanges, commodities exchanges, electronic communication networks, insurance companies or agents, investment companies or investment advisers.
Self-Regulatory Organization
(c) . All Holdco Shares to be transferred to the Escrow Agent pursuant to Section 2.6(b) shall be deemed issued and outstanding as of the Effective Time and whenever a dividend or other distribution is declared by Holdco in respect of Holdco Shares, the record date for which is at or after the Effective Time, that declaration shall include dividends or other distributions in respect of all Holdco Shares issuable pursuant to this Agreement. No dividends or other distributions in respect of the Holdco Shares shall be paid to any holder of any Book-Entry Interests until the instructions for transfer and cancellation provided in this Article II and in accordance with the terms of the Merger Transmittal Letter, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Escrow Agent pursuant to Section 2.9(b), have been delivered to the Escrow Agent. Subject to the effect of applicable Laws, following delivery to the Escrow Agent of such instructions with respect to Book-Entry Interests, there shall be issued to the holder of Holdco Shares issued in exchange therefor, without interest, (A) at the time of such surrender or delivery of such instructions, the dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time theretofore payable with respect to such Holdco Shares and not paid and (B) at the appropriate payment date, the dividends or other distributions payable with respect to such Holdco Shares with a record date after the Effective Time but with a payment date subsequent to surrender.
Distributions with Respect to Unexchanged Shares; Voting
(d) . No fractional Holdco Shares will be issued in the Merger to any holder of NYSE Euronext Shares. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, each holder of NYSE Euronext Shares converted pursuant to Section 2.7(a) who would otherwise have been entitled to receive a fraction of a share of Holdco Shares shall receive from the Escrow Agent, in lieu thereof, cash (without interest) in an amount representing such holder's proportionate interest in the net proceeds from the sale by the Escrow Agent on behalf of all such holders of Holdco Shares which would otherwise be issued (the ""). The sale of the Excess Merger Shares by the Escrow Agent shall be executed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, through one or more member firms of the New York Stock Exchange and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, as the case may be, and shall be executed in round lots to the extent practicable. Until the net proceeds of such sale or sales have been distributed to such holders of NYSE Euronext Shares, the Escrow Agent shall hold such proceeds in trust for such holders (the ""). Holdco shall pay all commissions, transfer taxes and other out-of-pocket transaction costs incurred in connection with such sale of the Excess Merger Shares. The Escrow Agent shall determine the portion of the Fractional Interests Trust to which each holder of NYSE Euronext Shares shall be entitled, if any, by multiplying
Fractional Shares
Excess Merger Shares
Fractional Interests Trust
 
the amount of the aggregate net proceeds comprising the Fractional Interests Trust by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of fractional interests to which such holder of NYSE Euronext Shares is entitled and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of fractional interests to which all holders of NYSE Euronext Shares are entitled. As soon as practicable after the determination of the amount of cash, if any, to be paid to holders of NYSE Euronext Shares in lieu of fractional interests, the Escrow Agent shall make available such amounts to such holders of NYSE Euronext Shares. Any such sale shall be made within ten business days or such shorter period as may be required by applicable Law after the Effective Time.
(e) . Each of Holdco, the Surviving Corporation and the Escrow Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from any amounts payable pursuant to this Article II to any Person who was a holder of NYSE Euronext Shares, NYSE Euronext Stock Options or NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Awards immediately prior to the Effective Time, such amounts as it is required to deduct and withhold with respect to the making of such payment under the Code, or any provision of state, local or non-U.S. tax law. To the extent that amounts are so deducted and withheld by or on behalf of Holdco, the Surviving Corporation or the Escrow Agent, as the case may be, and paid over to the relevant Governmental Entity, such deducted and withheld amounts shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of the NYSE Euronext Shares, NYSE Euronext Stock Options or NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Awards, as the case may be, in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made.
Withholding Rights
(f) . Any portion of the Exchange Fund and Fractional Interests Trust that remains unclaimed by the former stockholders of NYSE Euronext for 180 days after the Effective Time shall be delivered to Holdco. Any former stockholders of NYSE Euronext who have not theretofore complied with this Article II shall thereafter look only to Holdco for delivery of any Holdco Shares or Fractional Interests Trust of such stockholders and payment of any dividends and other distributions in respect of Holdco Shares of such stockholders payable and/or issuable pursuant to this Article II upon delivery to the Escrow Agent of written instructions for the transfer and cancellation of any Book-Entry Interests, in each case, without any interest thereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of Holdco, NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse, Merger Sub, the Escrow Agent or any other Person shall be liable to any former holder of NYSE Euronext Shares for any amount properly delivered to a public official pursuant to applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Laws.
Termination of Exchange Fund and Fractional Interests Trust
Section 2.10. . The parties hereby agree and acknowledge that, with the prior consent of Deutsche Brse, NYSE Euronext may restructure the Merger; that such restructuring shall not (i) reduce or change the form of the Merger Consideration, (ii) materially delay or prevent consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (iii) prevent or materially impede the qualification of the Merger as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and/or the qualification of the Merger and the Offer, taken together, as a transaction
Restructuring of the Merger
provided
 
described in Section 351(a) of the Code, or (iv) prevent or materially impede the qualification of the Offer and/or the Merger and the Offer, taken together, as a transaction described in Section 351(a) of the Code.
Section 3.1. .
Post-Closing Reorganization
(a) Holdco intends, simultaneously with or as soon as practicable after the Closing, to effectuate one or more corporate reorganization transactions (the "") intended to achieve legal and operational integration of Deutsche Brse with Holdco and its Subsidiaries to the greatest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
Post-Closing Reorganization
(b) The Post-Closing Reorganization may include any of the following, each of which has been or will be, to the extent required, approved in principle by the Deutsche Brse Boards:
(i) if 95% or more of the outstanding Deutsche Brse Shares shall have been acquired by Holdco, Holdco may (A) commence a mandatory buy-out of the Deutsche Brse Shares from any remaining holders thereof by way of a squeeze-out transaction pursuant to Section 327a of the German Stock Corporation Act () (the "") or by applying for a court order in accordance with Sections 39a of the Takeover Act and (B) enter into a domination agreement () and/or, at the election of Holdco, a combination of a domination agreement () and a profit transfer agreement (), in each case pursuant to Sections 291 . of the Stock Corporation Act with Deutsche Brse as the controlled company and with Holdco Shares offered to the outside Deutsche Brse shareholders as consideration () pursuant to Section 305 para. 2 of the Stock Corporation Act; and
et seq.
Aktiengesetz
Stock Corporation Act
et seq.
Beherrschungsvertrag
Beherrschungsvertrag
Gewinnabfhrungsvertrag
et seq
Abfindung
(ii) if less than 95% of the outstanding Deutsche Brse Shares shall have been acquired by Holdco, Holdco may enter into a domination agreement () and/or, at the election of Holdco, a combination of a domination agreement () and a profit transfer agreement (), in each case pursuant to Sections 291. of the Stock Corporation Act with Deutsche Brse as the controlled company and with Holdco Shares offered to the outside Deutsche Brse shareholders as consideration () pursuant to Section 305 para. 2 of the Stock Corporation Act;
Beherrschungsvertrag
Beherrschungsvertrag
Gewinnabfhrungsvertrag
et seq
Abfindung
that, in each case, the Post-Closing Reorganization shall be structured with the goal of providing holders of Deutsche Brse Shares who do not exchange their Deutsche Brse Shares in the Offer with the same number of Holdco Share(s) per Deutsche Brse
provided
 
Share or consideration having the same value (without taking into account the different tax treatment or withholding requirements that may apply) that such holders would have received in the Offer had such holder tendered its Deutsche Brse Shares in the Offer (it being understood that, in the Post-Closing Reorganization, holders of Deutsche Brse Shares may under certain circumstances receive a different amount or form of consideration than they would have received in the Offer). If Holdco shall determine to enter into a domination agreement and/or into a combination of a domination agreement and a profit transfer agreement pursuant to the foregoing sentence, Deutsche Brse agrees that it shall enter into such domination agreement and/or, subject to tax, legal, regulatory and operational consideration, enter into such combination of a domination agreement and a profit transfer agreement, in each case in accordance with Sections 291. of the Stock Corporation Act.
et seq
(c) Holdco shall have the right to change the structure of the Post-Closing Reorganization (including to determine whether the domination agreement and/or the profit transfer agreement shall be entered into with Deutsche Brse as the controlled company by a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco in the legal form of a German stock corporation or a German (SE) instead of by Holdco); , , that it shall be effectuated in accordance with applicable Law and, if the domination agreement is entered into with Deutsche Brse as the controlled company by a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco in the legal form of a German stock corporation or a German (SE) instead of by Holdco, an additional domination agreement shall be entered into with such German stock corporation or German (SE) as controlled company by Holdco. Holdco, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall cooperate with each other in identifying and obtaining any tax or other governmental clearances necessary or desirable in connection with the Post-Closing Reorganization.
societas europaea
provided
however
societas europaea
societas europaea
Section 3.2. . Except to the extent prohibited by applicable Law or contrary to the requirements of any Regulatory Authority or other Governmental Entity, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall take, on or after the date of this Agreement, all actions reasonably necessary or desirable to accomplish the Post-Closing Reorganization, including if requested by Holdco such actions as may be required for Holdco and Deutsche Brse to enter into a domination agreement and/or a combination of a domination agreement and a profit transfer agreement; that the Post-Closing Reorganization shall not be required to be effective prior to the Effective Time.
Cooperation of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse
provided
 
Section 4.1. .
Articles of Association, Rules for the Board of Directors and Rules for the Global Executive Committee; Organizational Documents of Subsidiaries of Holdco
(a) . Subject to any required approval of the SEC and any Regulatory Authority, prior to the Effective Time, the sole stockholder(s) of Holdco shall (i) adopt the Articles of Association of Holdco by notarial deed, substantially in the form attached hereto as (the ""), and (ii) cause the Holdco Board to adopt the Rules for the Board of Directors of Holdco, substantially in the form attached hereto as (the "") and the Rules for the Global Executive Committee of Holdco, substantially in the form attached hereto as (the ""), in each case to be in effect as of the Effective Time, or prior to the Effective Time if mutually agreed by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse. If, in connection with providing approval of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the SEC, any Regulatory Authority or other Governmental Entity with jurisdiction in connection with obtaining any required approval for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or otherwise requires an amendment or modification to (1) the form of Holdco Articles of Association, (2) the form of Holdco Rules for the Board of Directors, (3) the form of Rules for the Global Executive Committee, (4) the form of Governance Resolutions or (5) the governance structure of the Holdco and its Subsidiaries (together, the "") contemplated by this Agreement to be in effect as of the Effective Time ((1) through (5), taken together, the ""), then NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse and Holdco agree to amend or modify such forms or governance structure in a way that comes as close as possible to the balance of the Corporate Governance Structure contemplated by this Agreement as of the date hereof, including the balance of powers and responsibilities between the Chairman of the Holdco Group and the Chief Executive Officer of the Holdco Group; that neither NYSE Euronext nor Deutsche Brse shall be obligated to agree to any such amendment or modification (and, in such case, Holdco shall not implement any amendment) if such amendment or modification would significantly change the balance of the Corporate Governance Structure contemplated by this Agreement as of the date hereof, including the balance of powers and responsibilities between the Chairman of the Holdco Group and the Chief Executive Officer of the Holdco Group. The parties acknowledge and agree that neither of the following (either alone or together) shall be considered to significantly change the balance of the Corporate Governance Structure (a) any requirement to adopt the restrictions, resolutions or provisions in the governing documents of Holdco or its Subsidiaries similar to those described in the proposed rule change (Release No. 34-56733; File No. SR-ISE-2007-101) filed by the International Securities Exchange, LLC in connection with its acquisition by Eurex Frankfurt AG
Articles of Association, Rules for the Board of Directors and Rules for the Global Executive Committee
Exhibit A
Holdco Articles of Association
Exhibit B
Holdco Rules for the Board of Directors
Exhibit C
Rules for the Global Executive Committee
Holdco Group
Corporate Governance Structure
provided
 
(including provisions relating to ownership and voting restrictions, jurisdiction, books and records, notification, cooperation, compliance with U.S. federal securities laws, confidentiality, preservation of independence of self-regulatory functions, directors' considerations of effect of actions on ability of exchange to carry out responsibilities under the Exchange Act and the implementation of a Delaware trust); and (b) any requirement to preserve the Delaware trust and the Dutch foundation that currently exists for NYSE Euronext. The parties are in agreement and have been advised by their respective Dutch legal advisors that the powers and responsibilities of the Chairman of the Holdco Group and the Chief Executive Officer of the Holdco Group contemplated by the Holdco Articles of Association and the Holdco Rules for the Board of Directors comply, as of the date hereof, with applicable Dutch Law in effect as of the date hereof (it being acknowledged that certain of such powers and responsibilities do not conform to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and therefore the deviations must be disclosed and explained in Holdco's annual accounts) and the rules in the current draft legislation set forth in Bill 31 763 (), presently before the First Chamber of Dutch Parliament. "" means any of the SEC, BaFin, the German Stock Exchange Supervisory Authorities, the Luxembourg Supervisory Authority for the Financial Sector () and the Luxembourg Supervisory Authority for the Insurance Sector (), the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (), the Dutch Minister of Finance, the French Minister of the Economy, the French Prudential Supervisory Authority (), Belgian Banking, Finance and Insurance Commission () (the ""), the AFM, the Portuguese Securities Market Commission (), the U.K. Financial Services Authority, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, and the College of Regulators, and any other regulatory authority (as mutually determined by the parties), in each case only to the extent that it has authority and jurisdiction in the particular context. "" means the Committee of Chairmen of the AMF, the AFM, the CBFA, the Portuguese Securities Market Commission (), and the U.K. Financial Services Authority, pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding, dated June 24, 2010. "" means the Exchange Supervisory authority of the State of Hesse (), the Saxonian Exchange Supervisory Authority () and the Berlin Exchange Supervisory Authority ().
Bestuur en toezicht
Regulatory Authorities
Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier
Commissariat aux Assurances
Eidgenssische Finanzmarktaufsicht, FINMA
Autorit de Contrle Prudentiel
De Commissie voor het Bank-, Financie- en Assurantiewezen
CBFA
Comisso do Mercado de Valores Mobilirios
College of Regulators
Comisso do Mercado de Valores Mobilirios
German Stock Exchange Supervisory Authorities
Hesissche Brsenaufsichtsbehrde
Schsische Brsenaufsichtsbehrde
Berliner Brsenaufsichtsbehrde
(b) . In order to secure the implementation of the Corporate Governance structure as agreed between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse, in particular the Chairmanship of the Group Chairman in the Nomination Committee of Holdco and his membership in the Compensation Committee of Holdco, the parties agree to proceed as follows: Simultaneously and in parallel and with equal priority, NYSE Euronext will use reasonable best efforts to amend Rules 303A.04 and 303A.05 of the New York Stock Exchange Rules, so that such rules would permit the Chairman of the Holdco Group to become Chairman of the Nomination Committee of Holdco and
Listing Rule Amendment and Availability of FPI-Status for Holdco after the Effective Time
 
member of the Compensation Committee of Holdco for a period of five years after the Effective Time (the "") and, without any modification to the Corporate Governance Structure, including, in particular, that, after the Effective Time, the office of the Chief Executive Officer shall be in New York, NYSE Euronext will use reasonable best efforts to secure the availability and maintaining of FPI-Status after the Effective Time. If the parties are not able to confirm prior to the date that the Proxy Statement/Prospectus is mailed to the NYSE Euronext stockholders that the Listing Rule Amendment will be approved or that Holdco shall continue to have FPI-Status after the Effective Time, then NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse agree to amend the Corporate Governance Structure in accordance with applicable Law so that a director designated by Deutsche Brse prior to the Effective Time will be nominated by the Group Chairman to become the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Compensation Committee after the Effective Time, it being understood that the Group Chairman shall have a permanent right of attendance at the meetings of the Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee without having the right to vote. NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse will further secure, in accordance with applicable Law, that such director designated by Deutsche Brse will be re-appointed as a member of the Holdco Board and as Chairman of the Nomination Committee and as member of the Compensation Committee of the Holdco Board after the Initial Board Term (as defined in the Articles of Association of Holdco) for a second term of three years, it being understood that the Group Chairman has a permanent attendance right without having the right to vote also during the second Board term of such director designated by Deutsche Brse until the end of his initial term.
Listing Rule Amendment
(c) Subject to any required approval of the SEC and any Regulatory Authority, the parties shall take all requisite action to cause the organizational documents of those entities that will be Subsidiaries of Holdco as of the Effective Time to be substantially in such form as agreed to by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse.
Organizational Documents of Subsidiaries of Holdco.
Section 4.2. . Subject to the legal power of the Holdco Board, the Executive Committee of Holdco or the shareholders of Holdco to determine otherwise, Holdco and Holdco Group shall have the following characteristics as of and after the Effective Time:
Future Structure and Business Model of the Holdco Group
(a) Holdco, having its legal seat in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, shall, following the consummation of the Offer and the Merger, serve as a holding company for the combined businesses of Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext. In order to comply with regulatory requirements and other applicable Laws and to ensure close proximity to customers, there shall continue to be a separate operational subsidiary legal entity in each of the different countries where Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext operate securities exchanges (, the United States, Germany, Belgium, France, The Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Portugal). NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse will review the organizational structure of the Holdco Group with a view to organizing it in such a way that, in the medium term, all European businesses and assets of the Holdco Group are held directly or indirectly by a
Legal Structure of Holdco Group.
i.e.
 
European legal entity and all U.S. businesses and assets are held directly or indirectly by a U.S. legal entity, taking into account and subject to tax, regulatory and operational considerations. NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse intend to appoint two regional coordinators for the European and the U.S. businesses of Holdco Group, with a view to regional coordination in relation to regulatory matters. The divisional structure of Holdco Group and the responsibilities of the divisional heads for their respective divisions shall not be affected thereby.
(b) . NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall decide, after the Effective Time and in accordance with any regulatory requirements, to harmonize the trading platforms of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse. Subject to further review by the parties, the parties intend to migrate:
Trading Platforms
(i) to two platforms, one for the combined cash business and one for the combined derivatives business of the Holdco Group. In the case of a migration to two platforms, it is the intention of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse that, subject to further review of the parties, one of those platforms will be a platform currently used by NYSE Euronext, and the other will be a platform currently used by Deutsche Brse; and/or
(ii) to one single platform for both cash and derivatives businesses of the Holdco Group in the medium term;
that any such migration shall be consistent with the primary goals of maximizing synergies and creating an efficient market place for customers.
provided
(c) . The Holdco Group shall have five global divisions with the following locations:
Divisional Structure of Holdco Group
(i) Global Cash Trading and Listings with a Global Hub in New York and key locations in the following locations (in alphabetical order): Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt, Lisbon and Paris;
(ii) Global Derivatives with a Global Hub in Frankfurt and key locations in the following locations (in alphabetical order): Amsterdam, Chicago, London, New York and Zurich;
(iii) Global Settlement and Custody with a Global Hub in Frankfurt and key locations in the following locations (in alphabetical order): Luxembourg, New York, Porto, Prague and Singapore, and with the office of the divisional head for this division located in Luxembourg;
(iv) Technology Services/IT with a Global Hub in New York and a key location in the following locations (in alphabetical order): Belfast, Frankfurt, London, Luxembourg, Paris and Prague, and with the office of the divisional head for this division located in Paris; and
 
(v) Market Data and Analytics with a Global Hub in Frankfurt and key locations in the following locations (in alphabetical order): London, New York, Paris and Zurich.
The "" of a global division of the Holdco Group shall mean the location from where such global division is managed. Prior to the Effective Time, the Holdco Board and the sole shareholder of Holdco shall approve and adopt resolutions substantially in the form attached hereto as , which, among other things, contemplate the locations of the global divisions of the Holdco Group as set out in this Section 4.2(c). For the divisions, the best existing names and brands by product or market shall be used.
Global Hub
Schedule I
(d) . The European equities businesses of Holdco Group expects to run its five markets (Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt, Lisbon and Paris) on the same trading technology platform. This business will be led by the current Head of the European Cash Markets of NYSE Euronext, and the deputy of this business will be a person designated by Deutsche Brse. As has been the case, all five stock exchanges will remain independently operated as listing venues/market undertakings, but will share the same technology platform. Subsequent leaders of this business will run the European equities business from the domicile of the cash market which they operate.
European Equities Businesses of Holdco Group
(e) . Prior to the Effective Time, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to seek the continued inclusion after the Effective Time of the Holdco Shares in the DAX30, EuroStoxx50 and S&P500 indices.
Inclusion of Holdco Shares in Indices
(f) . Prior to the Effective Time, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall use their respective reasonable best efforts so that, after the Effective Time, Holdco shall receive an "AA" rating from the rating agencies of S&P or Fitch or an equivalent rating at one or several other rating agencies.
Rating for Holdco
Section 4.3. . It is the parties' understanding that the status of a foreign private issuer ("") as defined by Rule 3b-4 under the Exchange Act should be available to Holdco until the Effective Time and that the parties will make use of this availability until such time and shall use their reasonable best efforts to cooperate and agree on any necessary measures in order to ensure that the structure of Holdco allows it all times prior to the Effective Time to maintain FPI-Status.
Availability of FPI-Status for Holdco
FPI-Status
 
Section 5.1. .
Board of Directors and Board Committees of Holdco; Management of the Holdco Group
(a) Unless otherwise agreed by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse, the parties hereto shall cause the Holdco Board to consist, within one month after the Expiration Time, of seventeen members. Such Board of Directors shall be comprised of: (i) the Chief Executive Officer of Deutsche Brse as of immediately prior to the Effective Time; (ii) the Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext as of immediately prior to the Effective Time; (iii) six individuals designated by NYSE Euronext; and (iv) nine individuals designated by Deutsche Brse. As of immediately prior to or concurrently with the Effective Time, each of the members of the Holdco Board, other than the Chief Executive Officer of the Holdco Group and the Chairman of the Holdco Group, shall satisfy Holdco's director independence policy, as determined by the Holdco Board and subject to approval by the SEC and the Regulatory Authorities, and each member of the Holdco Board shall meet all applicable legal and regulatory qualification requirements.
(b) At the Effective Time, the Holdco Board shall constitute the following committees of the Holdco Board, each of which shall consist of three members of the Holdco Board designated by Deutsche Brse and two members of the Holdco Board designated by NYSE Euronext, in each case subject to applicable legal and regulatory requirements (including listing standards of applicable Self-Regulatory Organizations): (i) the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee, (ii) the Nomination, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee, (iii) the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, (iv) the Strategy Committee, (v) the Integration Committee and (vi) the Technology Committee.
Section 5.2. . Prior to the Effective Time, the parties shall cause the sole shareholder of Holdco and the Holdco Board to adopt a resolution substantially in the form of attached hereto, which shall contain resolutions that contemplate (a) the appointments to the Holdco Board and the Holdco Board committees, and (b) the appointments of the management of the Holdco Group and of the member of the Global Executive Committee ((a) and (b) together, the ""), in each case, with such changes as may be agreed to in writing by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse prior to the Effective Time and subject to any amendments that may be required in view of resignations, removals and other changes determined by NYSE Euronext, in the case of the individuals designated by or employees of NYSE Euronext or "A" directors, or by Deutsche Brse, in the case of the individuals designated by or employees of Deutsche Brse or "B" directors.
Management of the Holdco Group
Schedule I
Governance Resolutions
 
Section 6.1. . Except as set forth (1) in the case of any representation and warranty made by NYSE Euronext, in the disclosure letter dated as of the date hereof, delivered to Deutsche Brse by NYSE Euronext on or prior to entering into this Agreement (the "") and except as disclosed in any report, schedule, form, statement or other document of NYSE Euronext filed with or furnished to the SEC prior to the date hereof and on or after December 31, 2007 and publicly available on the date hereof on the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (EDGAR) (collectively, the "") (other than disclosures in the "Risk Factors" or "Forward Looking Statements" sections of any NYSE Euronext Reports or any other disclosure in any NYSE Euronext Report to the extent that such disclosure is predictive or forward-looking in nature), and (2) in the case of any representation and warranty made by Deutsche Brse, in the disclosure letter dated as of the date hereof, delivered to NYSE Euronext by Deutsche Brse on or prior to entering into this Agreement (the "") and except as disclosed in (x) any annual report of Deutsche Brse prior to the date hereof and on or after December 31, 2007, (y) ad hoc announcement of Deutsche Brse prior to the date hereof and on or after December 31, 2007 or (z) any report, schedule, form, statement or other document filed with BaFin or the German Company Register () prior to the date hereof and on or after December 31, 2007 and, in each of cases (x), (y) and (z), only if such annual report, ad hoc announcement or other report, schedule, form, statement or document is publicly available on the website of Deutsche Brse on the date hereof ((x), (y) and (z), collectively, the "") (other than, in the case of the annual report or other report, schedule, form, statement or document filed with BaFin or the Germany Company Register, disclosures in the "Risk Factors," "Forward Looking Statements" or "Risk Report" sections of any Deutsche Brse Report or any other disclosure in any Deutsche Brse Report to the extent that such disclosure is predictive or forward-looking in nature), each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse hereby represents and warrants to the other as set forth in this Section 6.1; that any representation or warranty in this Section 6.1 that relates (i) specifically to NYSE Euronext or its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be a representation or warranty made only by NYSE Euronext to Deutsche Brse or (ii) specifically to Deutsche Brse or its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be a representation or warranty made only by Deutsche Brse to NYSE Euronext.
Representations and Warranties of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse
NYSE Euronext Disclosure Letter
NYSE Euronext Reports
Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter
Unternehmensregister
Deutsche Brse Reports
provided
(a) . Such party is an entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (where such concept is recognized under applicable Law) under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization. Each of such party's Subsidiaries is an entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (where such concept is recognized under applicable Law) under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of organization, except where the failure to be so organized, existing and in good standing when taken together with all other such failures, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and is not reasonably expected to have a
Organization, Good Standing and Qualification
 
Material Adverse Effect on such party. Each of such party and its Subsidiaries has all requisite corporate, company or similar power and authority to own and operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as presently conducted, except where the failure to have such power or authority when taken together with all other such failures, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and is not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on such party.
"" on NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, means a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations or financial condition of the NYSE Euronext Group or the Deutsche Brse Group, respectively; , , that the following shall not be considered in determining whether a Material Adverse Effect has occurred: (A) any change or development in economic, business or securities markets conditions generally (including any such change or development resulting from acts of war or terrorism) to the extent that such change or development does not affect NYSE Euronext Group or Deutsche Brse Group, respectively, in a materially disproportionate manner relative to other securities exchanges or trading markets; (B) any change or development to the extent resulting from the execution or announcement of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby; or (C) any change or development to the extent resulting from any action or omission by any member of the NYSE Euronext Group or the Deutsche Brse Group, respectively, that is required by this Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
provided
however
"" means NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
NYSE Euronext Group
"" means Deutsche Brse and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Deutsche Brse Group
"" means, with respect to any Person, any entity (including a subsidiary () within the meaning of Section 2:24a of the Dutch Civil Code), whether incorporated or unincorporated, of which at least a majority of the securities or ownership interests having by their terms voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person or by one or more of its respective Subsidiaries and, with respect to Deutsche Brse for purposes of Article VII, shall include the Swiss Subsidiaries; that any obligation of Deutsche Brse in this Agreement to cause the Swiss Subsidiaries to take an action or not to take an action shall be limited to the extent that Deutsche Brse does not have the right to cause such action or non-action by the Swiss Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
dochtermaatschappij
provided
"" means Eurex Zurich AG and STOXX Ltd and their respective Subsidiaries.
Swiss Subsidiaries
(b) .
Capitalization
 
(i) The authorized capital stock of NYSE Euronext consists of 800,000,000 NYSE Euronext Shares, of which 261,292,924 NYSE Euronext Shares were outstanding at the close of business on February 10, 2011 (not including 1,645,415 NYSE Euronext Shares held by NYSE Arca, Inc., an indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of NYSE Euronext, and not including 13,363,661 NYSE Euronext Shares held directly by NYSE Euronext in treasury), and 400,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), of which none are outstanding as of the date hereof. All of the outstanding NYSE Euronext Shares have been duly authorized and are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. Except as set forth above, at the close of business on February 10, 2011, no shares of capital stock or other equity interests in NYSE Euronext were issued or outstanding. NYSE Euronext has no NYSE Euronext Shares or NYSE Euronext Preferred Stock reserved for issuance, except that, at the close of business on February 10, 2011, there were 430,884 NYSE Euronext Shares underlying NYSE Euronext Stock Options, 4,348,614 NYSE Euronext Shares underlying NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Awards and 3,507,510 NYSE Euronext Shares reserved for issuance for NYSE Euronext employees and directors under NYSE Euronext's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective as of May 15, 2008, and non-U.S. stock incentive plans. Each of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests in each of NYSE Euronext's Subsidiaries is duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and, except as otherwise set forth in the NYSE Euronext Group structure chart set forth in the NYSE Euronext Disclosure Letter, owned by NYSE Euronext or by a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NYSE Euronext. All shares of capital stock or other equity interests in each of NYSE Euronext's Subsidiaries owned by NYSE Euronext or by a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NYSE Euronext are free and clear of any lien, pledge, security interest, claim or other encumbrance (""). Except as set forth above, there are no preemptive or other outstanding rights, options, warrants, conversion rights, stock appreciation rights, redemption rights, repurchase rights, agreements, arrangements, calls, commitments or rights of any kind that obligate NYSE Euronext or any of its Subsidiaries to issue or sell any shares of capital stock or other securities of NYSE Euronext or any of its Subsidiaries or any securities or obligations convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for, or giving any Person a right to subscribe for or acquire, any shares of capital stock or other securities of NYSE Euronext or any of its Subsidiaries, and no securities or obligations evidencing such rights are authorized, issued or outstanding. NYSE Euronext does not have outstanding any bonds, debentures, notes or other obligations the holders of which have the right to vote (or convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for securities having the right to vote) with the stockholders of NYSE Euronext on any matter.
NYSE Euronext Preferred Stock
Lien
(ii) The authorized capital stock () of Deutsche Brse amounts to EUR 195,000,000 and consists of 195,000,000 Deutsche Brse Shares, of which 195,000,000 Deutsche Brse Shares were outstanding at the close of business on February 10, 2011 (including 8,956,997 Deutsche Brse Shares held in treasury by Deutsche Brse ("")). All of the outstanding Deutsche Brse Shares have been duly authorized and are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. Except as set forth above, at the close of business on February 10, 2011, no shares of capital stock or other equity interests in Deutsche Brse were issued or
Grundkapital
Deutsche Brse Treasury Shares
 
outstanding. Deutsche Brse has no Deutsche Brse Shares reserved for issuance, except that, at the close of business on February 10, 2011, there were 174,583 Deutsche Brse Shares reserved for issuance to Deutsche Brse employees and directors under Deutsche Brse's group share plan. Each of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each of Deutsche Brse's Subsidiaries and each Joint Venture is duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and, except as otherwise set forth in the Deutsche Brse Group structure chart set forth in the Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter, owned by Deutsche Brse or by a direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of Deutsche Brse. All shares of capital stock or other equity interests in each of Deutsche Brse's Subsidiaries owned by Deutsche Brse or by a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Deutsche Brse are free and clear of any Lien. Except as set forth above, there are no preemptive or other outstanding rights, options, warrants, conversion rights, stock appreciation rights, redemption rights, repurchase rights, agreements, arrangements, calls, commitments or rights of any kind that obligate Deutsche Brse or any of its Subsidiaries to issue or sell any shares of capital stock or other securities of Deutsche Brse or any of its Subsidiaries or any securities or obligations convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for, or giving any Person a right to subscribe for or acquire, any shares of capital stock or other securities of Deutsche Brse or any of its Subsidiaries, and no securities or obligations evidencing such rights are authorized, issued or outstanding. Deutsche Brse does not have outstanding any bonds, debentures, notes or other obligations the holders of which have the right to vote (or convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for securities having the right to vote) with the stockholders of Deutsche Brse on any matter.
(c) .
Corporate Authority
(i) NYSE Euronext has all requisite corporate power and authority and has taken all corporate action necessary in order to authorize, execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement, and to consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby, subject only (A) in the case of the Merger, to the approval and adoption of this Agreement and the Merger by a vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding NYSE Euronext Shares entitled to vote thereon, (B) to the approval of certain aspects of the articles of association of Holdco that will be in effect after the Merger by a vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding NYSE Euronext Shares present at the NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting ((A) and (B) collectively, the "") and (C) to the extent required, approval of the SEC or a Regulatory Authority. This Agreement is a valid and binding agreement of NYSE Euronext enforceable against NYSE Euronext in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles (the ""). The Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext: (A) has approved and declared advisable this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Merger; (B) has determined, subject to applicable Law, to recommend that the NYSE Euronext stockholders adopt this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and (C) has received the opinion of its financial advisor, Perella Weinberg Partners LP, to
NYSE Euronext Requisite Vote
Bankruptcy and Equity Exception
 
the effect that, as of the date of such opinion and based upon and subject to the assumptions, qualifications and limitations set forth therein, the NYSE Euronext Exchange Ratio is fair, from a financial point of view, to the holders of NYSE Euronext Shares (other than Deutsche Brse or any affiliate of Deutsche Brse), a copy of which opinion has been delivered to Deutsche Brse. It is agreed and understood that such opinion is for the benefit of NYSE Euronext's Board of Directors and may not be relied on by Deutsche Brse.
(ii) Deutsche Brse has all requisite company power and authority and has taken all company action necessary in order to authorize, execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement, and to consummate the Offer and the other transactions contemplated hereby, subject only, to the extent required, to approval of the SEC or a Regulatory Authority. This Agreement is a valid and binding agreement of Deutsche Brse, enforceable against Deutsche Brse in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception. Each Deutsche Brse Board: (A) has approved the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Offer; (B) has determined that, subject to its duties under applicable Law, it will recommend, in its statement on the Offer under Section 27 of the Takeover Act, that the Deutsche Brse shareholders accept the Offer and tender their Deutsche Brse Shares in the Offer; and (C) has received the opinion of each of its financial advisors, Deutsche Bank AG and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, in each case to the effect that, as of the date of such opinions and based upon and subject to the assumptions, qualifications and limitations set forth therein, the Deutsche Brse Exchange Ratio is fair, from a financial point of view, to the holders of Deutsche Brse Shares (other than Deutsche Brse), a copy of which opinions have been delivered to NYSE Euronext. It is agreed and understood that such opinion is for the benefit of the Deutsche Brse Boards and may not be relied on by NYSE Euronext.
(d) .
No Conflicts
(i) (A) Neither the execution and delivery by such party of this Agreement, the compliance by it with all of the provisions of and the performance by it of its obligations under this Agreement, nor the consummation of the Offer, the Merger and the other transactions herein contemplated will conflict with, or result in a breach or violation of, or result in any acceleration of any rights or obligations or the payment of any penalty under or the creation of a Lien on the assets of such party or any of its Subsidiaries (with or without the giving of notice or the lapse of time) pursuant to, or permit any other party any improvement in rights with respect to or permit it to exercise, or otherwise constitute a default under, any provision of any Contract, or result in any change in the rights or obligations of any party under any Contract, in each case to which such party or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which such party or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective assets is bound, (B) nor, subject, in the case of NYSE Euronext, to any required approval of the Holdco Articles of Association by the SEC or any Regulatory Authority, will such execution and delivery, compliance, performance or consummation result in any breach or violation of, or a default under, the provisions of the Organizational Documents of such party or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Law applicable to it, except (in each of clauses (A) and (B), as applicable) for such conflicts, breaches, violations, defaults,
 
payments, accelerations, creations or changes that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect on such party.
(ii) Neither NYSE Euronext nor Deutsche Brse nor any of their Subsidiaries is a party to or bound by any non-competition Contracts or other Contract that purports to limit in any material respect either the type of business in which NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or any of their Subsidiaries (or, after giving effect to the Merger and the Offer, Holdco or its Subsidiaries) may engage or the manner or locations in which any of them may so engage in any business.
"" means, with respect to any Person, any agreement, indenture, loan agreement, undertaking, note or other debt instrument, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, permit, license, understanding, arrangement, commitment or other obligation to which such Person or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them may be bound or to which any of their properties may be subject.
Contract
"" means, with respect to any Person, the certificate of incorporation, articles of association, limited liability company agreement, bylaws or similar organizational documents of such Person.
Organizational Documents
(e) . Other than (i) the filings and/or notices under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976, as amended (the ""), Council Regulation (EC) 139/2004 of the European Community (the (""), and (ii) other merger control or competition law filings and/or notices (as mutually determined necessary or advisable by the parties) (subsections (i) and (ii) collectively, the ""), (iii) the approval from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States ("") under the Exon-Florio Amendment, (iv) the approvals and consents to be obtained from the SEC or any Regulatory Authority, including with respect to the Offer Documents, (v) the filing of the Certificate of Merger, and (vi) as required in order to comply with state securities, takeover and "blue sky" laws, no authorizations, consents, approvals, orders, permits, notices, reports, filings, registrations, qualifications and exemptions of, with or from, or other actions are required to be made by such party or any of its Subsidiaries with, or obtained by such party or any of its Subsidiaries from, any governmental or regulatory authority, agency, commission, body or other governmental or regulatory entity, U.S. or non-U.S., including the SEC and the Regulatory Authorities ("") or any Self-Regulatory Organization, in connection with the execution and delivery by such party of this Agreement, the performance by such party of its obligations hereunder and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Governmental Approvals and Consents
HSR Act
EMCR
Competition Approvals
CFIUS
Governmental Entity
(f) .
Reports; Financial Statements
(i) Each of the NYSE Euronext Reports and Deutsche Brse Reports were filed in a timely manner and in material compliance with all applicable Laws
 
and other requirements applicable thereto. As of their respective dates (or if amended prior to the date hereof, as of the date of such amendment), the NYSE Euronext Reports and the Deutsche Brse Reports complied in all material respects with requirements under applicable Law regarding the accuracy and completeness of the disclosures contained therein.
(ii) The consolidated balance sheet (including the related notes and schedules) included in the audited consolidated financial statements of NYSE Euronext for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 (the "") fairly presents the consolidated financial position of NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries as of its date, and the consolidated statements of income, equity, and cash flows and of changes in financial position included in the NYSE Euronext Financial Statements (including any related notes and schedules) fairly present the results of operations, equity, cash flows and changes in financial position, as the case may be, of NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries for the periods set forth therein, in each case in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("") consistently applied during the periods involved, except as may be noted therein.
NYSE Euronext Financial Statements
GAAP
(iii) The consolidated balance sheet (including the related notes and schedules) included in the audited consolidated financial statements of Deutsche Brse for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 (the "") fairly presents the consolidated financial position of Deutsche Brse and its Subsidiaries as of its date, and the consolidated statements of income, equity and cash flows and of other changes in financial position included in the Deutsche Brse Financial Statements (including any related notes and schedules) fairly present the results of operations, retained earnings, stockholders' equity, cash flows and changes in financial position, as the case may be, of Deutsche Brse and its Subsidiaries for the periods set forth therein, in each case in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("") consistently applied during the periods involved, except as may be noted therein.
Deutsche Brse Financial Statements
IFRS
(g) . Except as disclosed in the NYSE Euronext Financial Statements (in the case of NYSE Euronext) or the Deutsche Brse Financial Statements (in the case of Deutsche Brse), since December 31, 2009, such party and its Subsidiaries have conducted their respective businesses only in, and have not engaged in any material transaction other than according to, the ordinary and usual course of such businesses and there has not been any change or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or is reasonably expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect on such party.
Absence of Certain Changes
(h) . Neither such party nor any of its Subsidiaries is in conflict with, or in default or violation of, (i) any federal, state, local law, statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, order, injunction, decree, arbitration award, agency requirement, writ, franchise, variance, exemption, approval, license or permit in
Compliance
 
the United States, Germany or elsewhere (each, a "" and collectively "") of any Governmental Entity or Self-Regulatory Organization or (ii) any Contract to which such party or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which such party or any of its Subsidiaries or its or any of their respective properties is bound or affected, except in each of clauses (i) and (ii), for any such conflicts, defaults or violations that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on such party. Each of such party and its Subsidiaries has all permits, licenses, franchises, variances, exemptions, orders and other authorizations, consents and approvals (together, "") of all Governmental Entities necessary to conduct its business as presently conducted, except where the failure to have such Permits, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and is not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on such party.
Law
Laws
Permits
(i) . There are no (i) civil, criminal or administrative actions, suits, claims, hearings, investigations or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of such party, threatened against such party, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective directors or officers in their capacity as such or (ii) except as disclosed in the NYSE Euronext Financial Statements (in the case of NYSE Euronext) or the Deutsche Brse Financial Statements (in the case of Deutsche Brse), obligations or liabilities, whether or not accrued, contingent or otherwise and whether or not required to be disclosed, including those relating to, or any other facts or circumstances of which, to the knowledge of such party, could result in any claims against, or obligations or liabilities of, such party or any of its affiliates, except, in case of either clause (i) or (ii), for those that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on such party.
Litigation and Liabilities
(j) .
Employee Benefits
(i) All material benefit and compensation plans, contracts, policies or arrangements covering current or former employees of such party and its Subsidiaries and current or former directors of such party and its Subsidiaries, including deferred compensation, Pension Commitments, equity option, equity purchase, equity appreciation rights, equity based incentive and bonus plans (the "") are listed in Section 6.1(j) of the NYSE Euronext Disclosure Letter (in the case of NYSE Euronext) or Section 6.1(j) of the Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter (in the case of Deutsche Brse). True and complete copies of all material Benefit Plans listed in Section 6.1(j) of the NYSE Euronext Disclosure Letter (in the case of NYSE Euronext) or Section 6.1(j) of the Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter (in the case of Deutsche Brse), including any trust instruments, insurance contracts and all amendments thereto, have been made available to the other party.
Benefit Plans
"" means any agreement or other commitment of individual or collective nature, including commitments based on works custom (), to the extent known to such party, or collective grant
Pension Commitments
betriebliche bung
 
() regarding pensions () under which a company or its subsidiaries has any obligations.
Gesamtzusage
betriebliche Altersversorgung
(ii) All Benefit Plans are operated and established in substantial compliance with their terms and all applicable Laws. All Benefit Plans intended to qualify for special tax treatment meet all requirements for such treatment, and all Benefit Plans required to be funded and/or book-reserved are funded and/or book reserved, as appropriate, based upon reasonable actuarial assumptions.
(iii) Other than as required by applicable Law, neither NYSE Euronext nor any of its Subsidiaries has any material obligations for retiree health and life benefits to any current or former employees of such party or any of its Subsidiaries. Other than as prohibited by applicable Law, such party or its Subsidiaries may amend or terminate any such plan at any time without incurring any liability thereunder other than in respect of claims incurred prior to such amendment or termination.
(iv) There has been no amendment to, announcement by such party or any of its Subsidiaries relating to, or change in employee participation or coverage under, any Benefit Plan which would increase the expense of maintaining such plan above the level of the expense incurred therefor for the most recent fiscal year. Neither the execution of this Agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will (A) entitle any employees or other service providers of such party and its Subsidiaries to additional compensation or to severance pay or any increase in severance pay upon any termination of employment after the date hereof, (B) accelerate the time of payment or vesting or result in any payment or funding (through a grantor trust or otherwise) of compensation or benefits under, increase the amount payable or result in any other material obligation pursuant to, any of the Benefit Plans or accelerate options or restricted stock units, (C) accelerate the time of payment or vesting of the NYSE Euronext Stock Options or the NYSE Euronext Stock-Based Awards (in the case of NYSE Euronext) or the Deutsche Brse Stock Options or the Deutsche Brse Stock-Based Awards (in the case of Deutsche Brse), or (D) limit or restrict the right of such or, after the consummation of the Merger or any other transactions contemplated hereby, Holdco to merge, amend or terminate any of the Benefit Plans.
(k) .
Tax Matters
(i) Neither such party nor any of its Subsidiaries has taken or agreed to take any action, nor, to the knowledge of such party, does there exist any fact or circumstance, that would prevent or impede, or would be reasonably likely to prevent or impede, (i) the Merger from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and/or the Merger and the Offer, taken together, from qualifying as an exchange within the meaning of Section 351(a) of the Code, (ii) the Offer and/or the Merger and the Offer, taken together, from qualifying as a transaction described in Section 351(a) of the Code, or (iii) the
 
receipt by NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse of the IRS private letter ruling or rulings contemplated by paragraph II.(b) and paragraph III.(b) of .
Annex II
(ii) Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on such party: (A) all Tax Returns that are required to be filed by or with respect to such party or any of its Subsidiaries have been timely filed (taking into account any extension of time within which to file), and all such Tax Returns are true and complete; (B) such party and its Subsidiaries have paid all Taxes required to be paid by any of them, including any Taxes required to be withheld from amounts owing to any employee, creditor or third party, except with respect to matters for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP in the most recent NYSE Euronext annual financial statement (in the case of NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries) or IFRS in the most recent Deutsche Brse annual financial statement (in the case of Deutsche Brse and its Subsidiaries), in each case, as adjusted for operations in the ordinary course of business since the last date which is covered by such statements; (C) there is no audit, examination, deficiency, refund litigation, proposed adjustment or matter in controversy with respect to any Taxes or Tax Return of such party or any of its Subsidiaries; (D) the Tax Returns of such party and each of its Subsidiaries have been examined by the applicable Tax Authority (or the applicable statutes of limitations for the assessment of income Taxes for such periods have expired) for all periods through and including December 31, 2007, and no deficiencies were asserted as a result of such examinations which have not been resolved and fully paid or accrued as a liability on the financial statements contained in the most recent NYSE Euronext Reports or Deutsche Brse Reports, as applicable; (E) neither such party nor any of its Subsidiaries have waived any statute of limitations with respect to Taxes or agreed to any extension of time with respect to a Tax assessment or deficiency; (F) neither NYSE Euronext nor any of its Subsidiaries has constituted a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock intended to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code (or any similar provision of state, local or non-U.S. law) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement; (G) none of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or any of their respective Subsidiaries has any liability for Taxes of any Person (other than such party or any of its Subsidiaries) under Treasury Regulation 1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or non-U.S. law, including Section 73 of the German General Tax Code), as transferee or successor, by contract or otherwise; (H) there are no liens for Taxes upon any property or assets of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or any of their respective Subsidiaries, except for liens for Taxes not yet due and payable or for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP in the most recent NYSE Euronext annual financial statement (in the case of NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries) or IFRS in the most recent Deutsche Brse annual financial statement (in the case of Deutsche Brse and its subsidiaries), (I) no private letter rulings, technical advice memoranda or similar agreements or rulings have been entered into or issued by any Tax Authority with respect to NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or any of their
et seq.
 
respective Subsidiaries for any taxable year for which the statute of limitations has not expired.
(iii) As used in this Agreement, (A) the term "" (including the plural form "" and, with correlative meaning, the terms "" and "") includes all U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. income, gain, profits, windfall profits, franchise, gross receipts, environmental, customs duty, capital stock, severances, stamp, payroll, sales, employment, unemployment, disability, use, property, withholding, excise, production, value added, occupancy and other taxes, duties or assessments of any nature whatsoever, together with all interest, penalties and additions imposed with respect to such amounts and any interest in respect of such penalties and additions, (B) the term "" includes all returns and reports (including elections, declarations, disclosures, schedules, estimates and information returns) filed or required to be filed with a Tax Authority relating to Taxes, and (C) the term "" includes any Governmental Entity responsible for the assessment, collection or enforcement of Laws relating to Taxes (including the IRS and any similar state, local or non-U.S. revenue agency).
Tax
Taxes
Taxable
Taxation
Tax Return
Tax Authority
(l) . Neither such party nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or otherwise bound by any material collective bargaining agreement, Contract or other agreement or understanding with a labor union or labor organization, nor is such party or any of its Subsidiaries the subject of any material proceeding asserting that such party or any of its Subsidiaries has committed an unfair labor practice or is seeking to compel it to bargain with any labor union or labor organization nor is there pending or, to the knowledge of such party, threatened, nor has there been for the past three years, any material labor strike, dispute, walk-out, work stoppage, slow-down or lockout ("") involving such party or any of its Subsidiaries, except for any general Strikes that are not directed exclusively at such party or any of its Subsidiaries.
Labor Matters
Strikes
(m) . Except as has not had or is not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, neither NYSE Euronext nor Deutsche Brse, as applicable, nor any of its Subsidiaries is in breach of or default under the terms of any Material Contract, and no event has occurred that (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) could reasonably be expected to result in a breach or default under any Material Contract. To the knowledge of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, no other party to any Material Contract is in breach of or default under the terms of any Material Contract where such breach or default has had, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable. Except as has not had and is not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, each Material Contract is a valid and binding obligation of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, or any of its Subsidiaries which is party thereto and, to the knowledge of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, of each other party thereto, and is in full force and effect, except that such enforcement may be subject to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception.
Material Contracts
 
"" shall mean any contract to which NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, or any of its respective Subsidiaries, is a party or bound as of the date hereof that:
Material Contract
(A) is a "material contract" (as such term is defined in Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K of the SEC);
(B) (1) purports to limit in any material respect either the type of business or the manner or geographic area in which any of them may so engage in any business, (2) would require the disposition of any material assets or line of business of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, or its Subsidiaries (or, after the Effective Time, Holdco or its Subsidiaries) or any of their respective affiliates as a result of the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (3) is a material Contract that grants "most favored nation" status that, following the Effective Time, would impose obligations upon Holdco or its Subsidiaries, or (4) prohibits or limits, in any material respect, the right of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, or any of its Subsidiaries (or, after the Effective Time, Holdco or its Subsidiaries) to make, sell or distribute any products or services or use, transfer, license or enforce any of their respective intellectual property rights; or
(C) that (1) has an aggregate principal amount, or provides for an aggregate obligation, in excess of 170,000,000 evidencing indebtedness for borrowed money, guaranteeing any such indebtedness of a third party or containing a covenant restricting the payment of dividends, or (2) has the economic effect of any of the items set forth in the foregoing clause (1).
(n) .
Intellectual Property
(i) For the purposes of this Agreement, "" means all inventions, discoveries, patents, patent applications, registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks and all goodwill associated therewith and symbolized thereby, trademark applications and service mark applications, Internet domain names, registered and unregistered copyrights (including databases and other compilations of information), confidential information, trade secrets and know-how, including processes, schematics, business methods, formulae, drawings, prototypes, models, designs, customer lists and supplier lists, computer software programs, and all other intellectual property and proprietary rights.
Intellectual Property
(ii) Except as has not had or is not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on such party, (A) such party and/or at least one of its Subsidiaries exclusively owns, is licensed to use or otherwise possesses sufficient and legally enforceable rights to use all Intellectual Property which is owned by or necessary to the operation of the business of such party and its Subsidiaries as currently conducted (the "") and (B) the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not alter or impair such rights.
Material Intellectual Property
 
(iii) Except as has not had or is not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on such party, to the knowledge of such party, the conduct of the business of such party as currently conducted does not infringe upon any Intellectual Property rights or any other proprietary right of any Person. To the knowledge of such party, there is no unauthorized use, infringement or misappropriation and other violation of Material Intellectual Property by any Person, including any employee of such party or any of its Subsidiaries, except as would not reasonably be likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on such party.
(iv) To the knowledge of such party and except as has not had or is not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on such party, the IT Assets of such party operate and perform in all material respects in accordance with their documentation and functional specifications, to the extent available, or as otherwise required by such party and its Subsidiaries in connection with the business of such party and its Subsidiaries as currently conducted.
(v) "" means, with respect to Deutsche Brse or NYSE Euronext, computers, computer software, firmware, middleware, servers, workstations, routers, hubs, switches, data communications lines, and all other information technology equipment and elements, and all associated documentation, used in the business of Deutsche Brse or NYSE Euronext, as applicable, and its Subsidiaries as currently conducted.
IT Assets
Section 6.2. . Each of Holdco and Merger Sub hereby represents and warrants to NYSE Euronext and to Deutsche Brse as set forth in this Section 6.2.
Representations and Warranties of Holdco and Merger Sub
(a) . Each of Holdco and Merger Sub is an entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (where such concept is recognized under applicable Law) under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization. Neither Holdco nor Merger Sub has conducted any business other than activities incidental to its organization and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Organization, Good Standing and Qualification
(b) . The authorized capital stock of Holdco consists of (i) 180,000 ordinary shares, nominal value 1 per share, and (ii) 45,000 D shares, nominal value 1 per share, of which 45,000 D shares are outstanding as of February 10, 2011 and no ordinary shares are outstanding as of the date hereof. All of the outstanding Holdco Shares have been duly authorized and are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. The authorized capital stock of Merger Sub consists of 500 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which 100 are outstanding as of the date hereof. All of the outstanding shares of Merger Sub common stock have been duly authorized and are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
Capitalization
(c) . Each of Holdco and Merger Sub has all requisite corporate power and authority and has taken all corporate action necessary in
Corporate Authority
 
order to authorize, execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement, and to consummate the Merger, the Offer and the other transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement is a valid and binding agreement of each of Holdco and Merger Sub enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception. Each of the sole shareholder of Holdco and the Holdco Board has approved and authorized this Agreement, the Offer and the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby. The board of directors of Merger Sub has approved and authorized this Agreement, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby.
(d) . The execution and delivery, compliance, performance or consummation shall not result in any breach or violation of, or a default under, the provisions of the Holdco's articles of association, Merger Subs certificate of incorporation or bylaws, except for such breaches, violations or defaults that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse.
No Conflicts
Section 7.1. . NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse each covenants and agrees as to itself and its Subsidiaries that, after the date hereof and until the earlier of the Effective Time or the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, unless NYSE Euronext (in the case of Deutsche Brse) or Deutsche Brse (in the case of NYSE Euronext) shall otherwise approve in writing, and except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this Agreement or, in the case of Deutsche Brse, except as otherwise set forth in Schedule 7.1 of the Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter or, in the case of NYSE Euronext, except as otherwise set forth in Schedule 7.1 of the NYSE Euronext Disclosure Letter:
Interim Operations
(a) the business of it and its Subsidiaries shall be conducted in the ordinary and usual course consistent with past practice, and each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall take such actions as are necessary so that (1) if the number of any restricted stock units issued after January 1, 2011 by NYSE Euronext or its Subsidiaries ("") or issued by Deutsche Brse or its Subsidiaries (""), as the case may be, exceeds the number of any NYSE Euronext RSUs or Deutsche Brse RSUs, respectively, forfeited after January 1, 2011 (any such excess for such party, the ""), then NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse, as the case may be, shall cause a number of NYSE Euronext RSUs and Deutsche Brse RSUs, respectively, equal to the Excess Number for such party to be settled in cash instead of NYSE Euronext Shares or Deutsche Brse Shares, respectively, and (2) any stock options issued after January 1, 2011 by NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as the case
NYSE Euronext RSUs
Deutsche Brse RSUs
Excess Number
 
may be, shall be settled in cash instead of NYSE Euronext Shares or Deutsche Brse Shares, respectively;
(b) (i) it shall not issue, sell, pledge, dispose of or encumber any capital stock owned by it in any of its Subsidiaries; (ii) except as set forth in Article IV of this Agreement, it shall not amend its certificate of incorporation, articles of association or bylaws; (iii) it shall not split, combine or reclassify its outstanding shares of capital stock; (iv) it shall not declare, set aside or pay any type of dividend, whether payable in cash, stock or property, in respect of any capital stock other than the quarterly dividends payable by NYSE Euronext or the annual dividend payable by Deutsche Brse (in each case in an amount per share not to exceed its most recent quarterly or annual per share dividend, as the case may be, and with the timing of such dividend to be consistent with past practice) or dividends payable by its direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries to it or another of its direct or indirectly wholly owned Subsidiaries; or (v) it shall not repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to purchase or otherwise acquire, any interests or shares of its capital stock, as applicable, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of its capital stock;
(c) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) issue, sell, pledge, dispose of or encumber (v) any shares of, or (w) securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for, or (x) options, warrants, calls, commitments or rights of any kind to acquire, capital stock of any class, as appropriate, or (y) any bonds, debentures, notes or other obligations the holders of which have the right to vote (or convertible into or exercisable for securities having the right to vote) with its shareholders on any matter or any other property or assets other than NYSE Euronext Shares or Deutsche Brse Shares issuable pursuant to stock-based awards outstanding on or awarded prior to the date hereof under the NYSE Euronext Stock Plans or Deutsche Brse Stock Plans; (ii) other than in the ordinary and usual course of business and consistent with past practice and other than any incurrence of indebtedness that is less than 170,000,000 in the aggregate, incur any long-term indebtedness for borrowed money (including any guarantee of such indebtedness); or (iii) make or authorize or commit for any capital expenditures, except for in accordance with the 2011 capital expenditure target for each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse, respectively, that has been provided to the other prior to the date of this Agreement or such other capital expenditures targets as may be mutually agreed by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse ( that (1) each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall be permitted to make or authorize or commit for any capital expenditures in an amount that is between 75% and 110% of such party's capital expenditure target and (2) if the Effective Time shall not have occurred on or prior to December 31, 2011, then, for purposes of this Section 7.1(c), each party's capital expenditure target will be adjusted upwards to take into account the number of days between December 31, 2011 and the Effective Time and assuming that the 2012 capital expenditure target shall be equal to the 2011 capital expenditure target);
provided
 
(d) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) terminate, establish, adopt, enter into, make any new grants or awards under, amend or otherwise modify, any Benefit Plan, as the case may be, or any other arrangement that would be a NYSE Euronext Benefit Plan or a Deutsche Brse Benefit Plan if in effect on the date hereof other than offer letters provided to newly hired or promoted employees (but excluding offer letters to executive officers of it and its Subsidiaries or to employees whose target compensation is in excess of the average compensation of executive officers of it or its Subsidiaries or of the employees, as the case may be), or (ii) except for increases occurring in the ordinary and usual course of business consistent with past practice, increase the salary, wage, bonus or other compensation of any employees or fringe benefits of any director, officer or employee or enter into any contract, agreement, commitment or arrangement to do any of the foregoing;
(e) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall lease, license, transfer, exchange or swap, mortgage (including securitizations), or otherwise dispose (whether by way of merger, consolidation, sale of stock or assets, or otherwise) of any material portion of its assets, including the capital stock of Subsidiaries (it being understood that the foregoing shall not prohibit the sale of inventory in the ordinary course of business), except for (i) dispositions of assets that in total have an aggregate fair market value of less than 100,000,000, or (ii) transactions between it and any Subsidiary or transactions between Subsidiaries;
(f) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall acquire or agree to acquire (whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise) any Person or assets, in which the expected gross expenditures and commitments (including the amount of any indebtedness assumed) (i) for all such acquisitions exceeds, in the aggregate, 200,000,000 (it being understood that if a party intends to make one or more acquisition that would exceed such amount, then the parties will discuss in good faith as to whether to permit such acquisitions based on the best interests of the Holdco Group after the Effective Time), or (ii) is reasonably likely, individually or in the aggregate, to materially delay the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Article VIII or Annex II hereof or prevent the satisfaction of such conditions;
(g) except in the ordinary and usual course of business consistent with past practice, neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) settle or compromise any material claims or litigation if such settlement or compromise would involve, individually or together with all such other settlements or compromises, the payment of money by such party or its Subsidiaries of 50,000,000 or more or would involve any admission of material wrongdoing or any material conduct requirement or restriction by such party or its Subsidiaries or (ii) modify, amend or terminate in any material respect any of its Material Contracts or waive, release or assign any material rights or claims thereunder in excess of 50,000,000 individually or in the aggregate;
(h) except to the extent otherwise required by Law, neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall make or change any Tax election, change any method of Tax accounting, file any amended Tax Return, or settle or compromise any audit or
 
proceeding relating to Taxes, in each case, if such action would reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, that is material; or permit any material insurance policy naming it as a beneficiary or loss-payable payee to be cancelled or terminated except in the ordinary and usual course of business;
(i) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall permit any change in its financial accounting principles, policies or practice (including any of its practices with respect to accounts receivable or accounts payable), except to the extent that any such changes in financial accounting principles, policies or practices shall be required by changes in GAAP (in the case of NYSE Euronext) or IFRS (in the case of Deutsche Brse);
(j) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall enter into any "non-compete" or similar Contract that would materially restrict the business of Holdco group following the Effective Time;
(k) except as permitted pursuant to Section 7.1(d), neither it nor any of its Major Subsidiaries shall enter into any Contract between itself, on the one hand, and any of its employees, officers or directors, on the other hand, if such Contract is not entered into on an arm's length basis; and
(l) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries will authorize or enter into an agreement to do any of the foregoing set forth in Sections 7.1(a) through (k) if NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, would be prohibited by the terms of Sections 7.1(a) through (k) from doing the foregoing.
Section 7.2. .
Acquisition Proposals
(a) Without limiting any of such party's other obligations under this Agreement, each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse agrees that, from and after the date hereof until the earlier of the Closing and the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any of the officers or directors of it or its Subsidiaries (including any member of the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext or the Deutsche Brse Boards) shall, and that it shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its and its Subsidiaries' employees, agents and representatives (including any investment banker, attorney or accountant retained by it or any of its Subsidiaries) not to, directly or indirectly, (i) initiate, solicit, knowingly encourage (including by way of furnishing information), facilitate, or induce any inquiries or the making, submission or announcement of, any proposal or offer that constitutes, or could reasonably be expected to result in, an Acquisition Proposal, (ii) subject to Section 7.2(c), have any discussion with any Person relating to an Acquisition Proposal, or engage in any negotiations concerning an Acquisition Proposal, or knowingly facilitate any effort or attempt to make or implement an Acquisition Proposal, (iii) subject to Section 7.2(c), provide any confidential information or data to any Person in relation to an Acquisition Proposal, (iv) subject to Section 7.2(c), approve or recommend, or
 
propose publicly to approve or recommend, any Acquisition Proposal or (v) subject to Section 7.2(c), approve or recommend, or propose to approve or recommend, or execute or enter into, any letter of intent, agreement in principle, merger agreement, acquisition agreement, business combination agreement, option agreement or other similar agreement (any of the preceding in this (v), an "") or propose publicly or agree to do any of the foregoing related to any Acquisition Proposal.
Alternative Acquisition Agreement
An "" for NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse means any offer or proposal for, or any indication of interest in, (i) any direct or indirect acquisition or purchase of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, or any of its Subsidiaries that constitutes 15% or more of the consolidated gross revenue or consolidated gross assets of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (such Subsidiary, a ""); (ii) any direct or indirect acquisition or purchase of (A) 15% or more of any class of equity securities or voting power or 15% or more of the consolidated gross assets of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, or (B) 15% or more of any class of equity securities or voting power of any of its Major Subsidiaries; (iii) any tender offer that, if consummated, would result in any Person beneficially owning 15% or more of any class of equity securities or voting power of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable; or (iv) any merger, reorganization, share exchange, consolidation, business combination, recapitalization, liquidation, dissolution or similar transaction involving NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, or any Major Subsidiary of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, but with the exception of intra-group reorganizations.
Acquisition Proposal
Major Subsidiary
(b) Within two business days after receipt of an Acquisition Proposal or any request for nonpublic information or inquiry that NYSE Euronext reasonably believes could lead to an Acquisition Proposal for NYSE Euronext or that Deutsche Brse reasonably believes could lead to an Acquisition Proposal for Deutsche Brse, NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, shall provide the other party hereto with written notice of the material terms and conditions of such Acquisition Proposal, request or inquiry, and the identity of the Person making any such Acquisition Proposal, request or inquiry. Thereafter, NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, shall provide the other party hereto, as promptly as practicable, with oral and written notice setting forth all such information as is reasonably necessary to keep such other party informed in all material respects of the status and details (including material amendments or proposed material amendments) of any such Acquisition Proposal, request or inquiry.
(c) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse or their respective Boards shall be permitted to (A) in the case of NYSE Euronext, comply with Rule 14d-9 and Rule 14e-2 under the Exchange Act and, in the case of Deutsche Brse, comply with the Takeover Act, (B) after complying with Section 7.2(d), effect a Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation or Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation, or (C) (x) in the case of NYSE Euronext, prior to the receipt by NYSE Euronext of the NYSE Euronext Requisite Vote and (y) in
 
the case of Deutsche Brse, prior to the Expiration Time, engage in any discussions or negotiations with, or provide any information or data to, any Person in response to an unsolicited bona fide written Acquisition Proposal by any such Person, if and only to the extent that, (i) in the case of clause (B) above, (x) if such Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation or Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation is made in response to an Acquisition Proposal for NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, respectively, then such Acquisition Proposal shall have been an unsolicited bona fide written Acquisition Proposal from a third party that the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext or the Deutsche Brse Boards, respectively, concludes in good faith (after consultation with its outside legal counsel and financial advisors) constitutes a Superior Proposal or (y) if such Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation or Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation is not made in response to an Acquisition Proposal for NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, then the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext or the Deutsche Brse Boards, as the case may be, after consultation with its outside legal counsel, determines in good faith that the failure to make such Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation or Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation, as the case may be, would be inconsistent with its fiduciary duties under applicable Law, (ii) in the case of clause (C) above, (1) its Board concludes in good faith (after consultation with its outside legal counsel and financial advisors) that there is a reasonable likelihood that such Acquisition Proposal could constitute a Superior Proposal, and that the failure to take such action would be inconsistent with its fiduciary duties under applicable Law, (2) prior to providing any information or data to any Person in connection with an Acquisition Proposal by any such Person, its Board receives from such Person an executed confidentiality agreement with confidentiality terms no less restrictive, in the aggregate, than those contained in the Confidentiality Agreement, and (3) such party is not then in material breach of its obligations under this Section 7.2 related to such Acquisition Proposal. For purposes of this Section 7.2(c), references to "" means, in relation to NYSE Euronext, the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext and, in relation to Deutsche Brse, the Deutsche Brse Boards.
Board
(d) Prior to any Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation, NYSE Euronext shall provide Deutsche Brse with a written notice (the "") of NYSE Euronext's intention to make a Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation at least five business days prior to making a Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation, and, in the case of any Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation in connection with an Acquisition Proposal for NYSE Euronext, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall negotiate in good faith during such five Business Day period with respect to any modifications to the terms of the transaction contemplated by this Agreement that are proposed by Deutsche Brse, and NYSE Euronext shall consider any such modifications agreed by Deutsche Brse in determining whether such Acquisition Proposal still constitutes a Superior Proposal for NYSE Euronext after such five-Business Day period. Prior to any Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation, Deutsche Brse shall provide NYSE Euronext written notice (the "") of Deutsche Brse's intention to make a Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation at least five business days prior to making a Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation, and, in the case of any Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation in connection with an Acquisition Proposal for Deutsche Brse, NYSE
NYSE Euronext Change in Recommendation Notice
Deutsche Brse Change in Recommendation Notice
 
Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall negotiate in good faith during such five Business Day period with respect to any modifications to the terms of the transaction contemplated by this Agreement that are proposed by NYSE Euronext, and Deutsche Brse shall consider any such modifications agreed by NYSE Euronext in determining whether such Acquisition Proposal still constitutes a Superior Proposal for Deutsche Brse after such five-Business Day period.
(e) In the event that a third party who has previously made an Acquisition Proposal that the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext or either of the Deutsche Brse Boards, as the case may be, has or have determined in accordance with this Section 7.2 is a Superior Proposal subsequently modifies or amends in an adverse manner any material term of such Superior Proposal such that the Acquisition Proposal is no longer a Superior Proposal, then such Board's prior determination shall be null and void and such Board shall be subject to the provisions of Section 7.2(c) and (d) in all respects (including the obligation to deliver a new NYSE Euronext Change in Recommendation Notice or Deutsche Brse Change in Recommendation Notice, as applicable, and negotiate in good faith with Deutsche Brse or NYSE Euronext, as applicable; that references to "five business days" or "five-business day period" shall thereafter be references to "three business days" or "three-business day period").
provided
(f) Except as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction or by shareholder action, each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse agrees that it will, and will cause its senior officers, directors and representatives and its Subsidiaries and such Subsidiaries' senior officers, directors and representatives to, immediately cease and cause to be terminated any activities, discussions or negotiations existing as of the date of this Agreement with any parties conducted heretofore with respect to any Acquisition Proposal. Each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse agrees that it will use reasonable best efforts to promptly inform its directors, officers, agents and representatives of the obligations undertaken in this Section 7.2. Nothing in this Section 7.2 shall (x) permit Deutsche Brse or NYSE Euronext to terminate this Agreement (except as specifically provided in Article IX hereof) or (y) affect any other obligation of Deutsche Brse or NYSE Euronext under this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement. Unless this Agreement shall have been earlier terminated and except as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction or by shareholder action, neither Deutsche Brse nor NYSE Euronext shall submit to the vote of its stockholders any Acquisition Proposal (other than the Offer or the Merger).
"" means, with respect to NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, a bona fide written Acquisition Proposal obtained not in breach of this Section 7.2 for or in respect of 50% or more of the outstanding NYSE Euronext Shares or Deutsche Brse Shares (as applicable) or 50% or more of the assets of NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, or Deutsche Brse and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, as applicable, in each case on terms that the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext or the Deutsche Brse Boards, as applicable, in good faith concludes (following receipt of the advice of its financial advisors and outside legal counsel), taking into account, among other things, all
Superior Proposal
 
legal, financial, regulatory, timing and other aspects of the Acquisition Proposal or offer and this Agreement, and taking into account any improved terms that Deutsche Brse (in the case of an Acquisition Proposal for NYSE Euronext) or NYSE Euronext (in the case of an Acquisition Proposal for Deutsche Brse) may have offered pursuant to this Section 7.2 deemed relevant by such Board or Boards (including conditions to and expected timing and risks of consummation and the ability of the party making such proposal to obtain financing for such Acquisition Proposal) are more favorable to the stockholders of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (after taking into account any such improved terms).
Section 7.3. .
Stockholders Meeting; Offer Recommendation
(a) NYSE Euronext will take, in accordance with applicable Law and the NYSE Euronext Organizational Documents, all action necessary to convene a meeting of its stockholders (the "") the day prior to the date of the scheduled Expiration Time (the ""), which date shall be after the Registration Statement is declared effective; that NYSE Euronext may adjourn or postpone the NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting for up to two weeks in the event that the acceptance period for the Offer is extended by two weeks. The Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext shall make the NYSE Euronext Recommendation and include the NYSE Euronext Recommendation in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus. In the event that on or subsequent to the date hereof and prior to the NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting (including any adjournment thereof), the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext determines either to make no recommendation for the Merger, or to withdraw, modify or qualify its recommendation for the Merger in a manner that is adverse to Deutsche Brse or Holdco (such determination not to make a recommendation or any such withdrawal, modification or qualification, a ""), which Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation shall be made only in accordance with Section 7.2(c), then Deutsche Brse shall have a right to terminate this Agreement in accordance with 9.4(a). Any Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation shall not limit or modify the obligation of NYSE Euronext to present this Agreement for adoption at the NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting prior to the date of the scheduled Expiration Time, and, if this Agreement is not otherwise terminated by either NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse in accordance with the terms hereof, this Agreement shall be submitted to the stockholders of NYSE Euronext at the NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting for the purpose of voting on adopting this Agreement.
NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting
NYSE Euronext Meeting Date
provided
Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation
(b) Each of the Deutsche Brse Boards has determined that, subject to its duties under applicable Law, it will recommend, in its statement on the Offer under Section 27 of the Takeover Act, that the Deutsche Brse shareholders accept the Offer and tender their Deutsche Brse Shares in the Offer. In the event that on or after the date hereof and prior to the Expiration Time, either of the Deutsche Brse Boards fails to recommend, in its statement on the Offer under Section 27 of the Takeover Act, that the Deutsche Brse shareholders accept the Offer and tender their Deutsche Brse
 
Shares in the Offer, or, after such recommendation, withdraws, modifies or qualifies such recommendation in a manner that is adverse to NYSE Euronext or Holdco (such failure to make such recommendation or any such withdrawal, modification or qualification, a ""), which Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation shall be made only in accordance with Section 7.2(c), then NYSE Euronext shall have a right to terminate this Agreement in accordance with 9.3(a). Any Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation shall not limit or modify the obligation of Deutsche Brse's representative to Holdco Board to consent, to Holdco's commencement, continuation and completion of the Offer in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and, if this Agreement is not otherwise terminated by either NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse in accordance with the terms hereof, Holdco shall be obligated to commence, continue and complete the Offer in accordance with the terms of this Agreement (and Deutsche Brse agrees to consent to such actions by Holdco).
Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation
Section 7.4. .
Reasonable Best Efforts; Regulatory Filings and Other Actions
(a) . Holdco, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall cooperate with each other and use (and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to use) their respective reasonable best efforts to take or cause to be taken all actions, and do or cause to be done all things, necessary, proper or advisable on its part under this Agreement and applicable Laws to consummate and make effective the Offer, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including the Holdco Articles of Association or alternative changes to the market or regulatory structure as may be required to consummate and make effective the Offer and the Merger) as soon as practicable, including preparing and filing as promptly as practicable all documentation to effect all necessary notices, reports and other filings and to obtain as promptly as practicable all consents, registrations, approvals, authorizations and other Permits (including all approvals and consents to be obtained under the Competition Approvals, CFIUS under the Exon-Florio Amendment, and from the SEC and the Regulatory Authorities) (collectively, "") necessary or advisable to be obtained from any third party and/or any Governmental Entity or Self-Regulatory Organization (if any) in order to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; it being understood that, to the extent legally by applicable Law, neither of the Deutsche Brse Boards nor the NYSE Euronext Board shall take any action that could prevent the consummation of the Offer or the Merger, except as otherwise permitted under this Agreement. Nothing in this Section 7.4 shall require, or be construed to require, Holdco, NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse to (A) proffer to, or agree to, sell or hold separate and agree to sell, or take any other action with respect to, before or after the Effective Time, any assets, businesses, or interests in any assets or businesses of Holdco, NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or any of their respective Subsidiaries or affiliates (or to consent to any sale, or agreement to sell, by Holdco, NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse or any of their respective Subsidiaries or affiliates, as the case may be, of any of its assets or businesses), if such action would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Substantial Detriment to NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or Holdco or (B) agree to any changes or restriction in the
Reasonable Best Efforts; Regulatory Filings
Consents
 
market or regulatory structure of Holdco, NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse or any of their respective Subsidiaries or affiliates or in any of their respective operations of any such assets or businesses, if such changes or restrictions would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Substantial Detriment to NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or Holdco. Subject to applicable Law and the instructions of any Governmental Entity, Holdco, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall keep each other apprised of the status of matters relating to the completion of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including promptly furnishing the other with copies of notices or other communications received or provided by Holdco, NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as the case may be, or any of their respective Subsidiaries, from or to any Governmental Entity with respect to such transactions.
"" means, with respect to any Person, a material adverse effect on (A) the business, continuing results of operations or financial condition of such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (B) the authority or ability of the regulated securities exchanges of Holdco, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse (and their respective Subsidiaries), taken as a whole, to operate consistently with past practice or as reasonably expected to be operated after the Effective Time, including with respect to operating the markets that they currently operate and the amounts and types of products listed, traded or otherwise made available in such markets. It is understood that a Substantial Detriment shall be deemed to exist with respect to any action requiring Holdco, NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, before or after the Effective Time, (i) to sell, hold separate or otherwise dispose of, or to agree to sell, hold separate or otherwise dispose of, assets, businesses or subsidiaries, or (ii) to take or refrain from taking, or to agree to take or to refrain from taking, any actions that, in each of cases (i) and (ii), would reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to materially impair the value of the combined businesses of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse after the Effective Time (taking into account the parties' contemplated plans for combining such businesses after the Effective Time and any value which is reasonably expected to be realized in connection with such combination or integration) such that either of the parties would not reasonably have decided to enter into the transaction in light of the anticipated economics of the transaction.
Substantial Detriment
(b) . Unless otherwise required by fiduciary obligations under applicable Law, the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext and the Deutsche Brse Boards shall each consider and make such determination with respect to the other party, its Related Persons (as defined in the Certificate of Incorporation of NYSE Euronext) and the Persons of which Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext are Related Persons, as required by any Governmental Entity and, in the case of NYSE Euronext, any Self-Regulatory Organization whose consent is required for the consummation of the Merger. NYSE Euronext and its Board of Directors and Deutsche Brse and the Deutsche Brse Boards shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to provide such information to the SEC, the Regulatory Authorities and any other Governmental Entity as is required with respect to the consideration by the SEC, the Regulatory Authorities and any other Governmental
Market and Regulatory Structure Matters
 
Entity of the amendments to the articles of incorporation of Holdco, NYSE Euronext and/or Deutsche Brse or alternative changes to market or regulatory structure as may be required to consummate and make effective the Merger and the completion of the Offer and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
(c) . Subject to applicable Laws relating to the sharing of information, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall have the right to review in advance, and to the extent practicable, each will consult the other on any filing made with, or written materials submitted to, any third party and/or any Governmental Entity and Self-Regulatory Organization (if applicable), in connection with the Merger and the Offer and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including the Offer Documents). NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall provide the other party with the opportunity to participate in any material meeting with any Governmental Entity in respect of any filings, investigation or other inquiry in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby. NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall keep each other apprised of all material discussions with any Governmental Entity in respect of any filings, investigation or other inquiry in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Prior Review of Certain Information
(d) . NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse each shall, upon request by the other and subject to applicable Laws relating to the sharing of information, furnish the other with all information concerning itself, its Subsidiaries, affiliates, directors, officers and stockholders and such other matters as may be reasonably necessary or advisable in connection with the Offer Documents or any other statement, filing, notice or application made by or on behalf of Holdco, NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or any of their respective Subsidiaries to any third party and/or any Governmental Entity in connection with the Merger and the completion of the Offer and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Furnishing of Information
(e) . Subject to applicable Law and the instructions of any Governmental Entity or any Self-Regulatory Organization (if applicable), NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse each shall keep the other apprised of the status of matters relating to completion of the transactions contemplated hereby, including promptly furnishing the other with copies of notices or other communications received by NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as the case may be, or any of their respective Subsidiaries, from any third party and/or any Governmental Entity and Self-Regulatory Organization (if applicable), with respect to such transactions. NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse each shall give prompt notice to the other of any change that is reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext or a Material Adverse Effect on Deutsche Brse, respectively, or to result in a Substantial Detriment to NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse.
Status Updates and Notice
Section 7.5. . Subject to applicable Law relating to the sharing of information, upon reasonable notice, and except as may otherwise be required by applicable Law, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse each shall (and shall cause its Subsidiaries to) afford the other's officers, employees, counsel, accountants, consultants
Access
 
and other authorized representatives ("") reasonable access, during normal business hours throughout the period prior to the Effective Time, to its properties, books, contracts and records and, during such period, each shall (and shall cause its Subsidiaries to) furnish promptly to the other all information concerning its business, properties and personnel as may reasonably be requested; that no investigation pursuant to this Section 7.5 shall affect or be deemed to modify any representation or warranty made by NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse; , , that the foregoing shall not require NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse (i) to permit any inspection, or to disclose any information, that in the reasonable judgment of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as the case may be, would result in the disclosure of any trade secrets of third parties or violate any of its obligations with respect to confidentiality if NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as the case may be, shall have used reasonable best efforts to obtain the consent of such third party to such inspection or disclosure, (ii) to disclose any privileged information of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as the case may be, or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) in the case of NYSE Euronext, (x) to permit any inspection, or to disclose any information relating to any regulatory enforcement, investigations or inquiries conducted by NYSE Euronext or any of its Subsidiaries or any other regulatory activities conducted by NYSE Euronext or any of its Subsidiaries that the Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext Regulation, Inc. determines, in his or her sole discretion, is confidential and inappropriate to disclose to Deutsche Brse, or (y) to permit any inspection, or to disclose any information relating to any regulatory enforcement, investigations or inquiries conducted by NYSE Euronext Stock Exchange LLC or NYSE Euronext Arca, Inc. or any other regulatory activities that the Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext Regulation, Inc. determines, in his or her sole discretion, is confidential and inappropriate to disclose to Deutsche Brse. (iv) in the case of Deutsche Brse, (x) to permit any inspection, or to disclose any information relating to any regulatory enforcement, investigations or inquiries or any other regulatory activities conducted by Frankfurt Stock Exchange or any entity which is a Self-Regulatory Organization and the direct or indirect shareholder of which is Deutsche Brse (together the ""), if the competent body of the relevant Self-Regulated Deutsche Brse Entity determines, in his or her sole discretion, that such information is confidential and inappropriate to disclose to NYSE Euronext, or (y) to permit any inspection, or to disclose any information relating to any regulatory enforcement, investigations or inquiries conducted by the BaFin or the Hessian Ministry for the Economy () or any other competent public regulatory body relating to Frankfurt Stock Exchange or any entity the direct or indirect shareholder of which is Deutsche Brse, if the competent body of the relevant entity determines, in his or her sole discretion, that such information is confidential and inappropriate to disclose to NYSE Euronext. All requests for information made pursuant to this Section 7.5 shall be directed to an executive officer of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as the case may be, or such Person as may be designated by either of their executive officers, as the case may be, with a copy to the General Counsel of such party. All such information shall be governed by the terms of the Confidentiality Agreement.
Representatives
provided
provided
further
Self-Regulated Deutsche Brse Entities
Hessisches Ministerium fr Wirtschaft
Section 7.6. . NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to cause the Holdco Shares to be issued in the Offer and the Merger pursuant to this Agreement and the Holdco Shares to be reserved
Exchange Listing
 
for issuance upon exercise of the Holdco Stock Options to be approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris, subject to official notice of issuance, prior to the Closing Date.
Section 7.7. . The initial press release regarding this Agreement and the Offer and the Merger shall be a joint press release, and NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall use reasonable best efforts to develop a joint communications plan and each party shall use reasonable best efforts to ensure that all press releases and other public statements with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, to the extent they have not been previously issued or disclosed, shall be consistent with such joint communications plan. Unless otherwise required by applicable Law or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with or rules of any securities exchange, each party shall consult with each other before issuing any press release or public statement with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and shall not issue any such press release or public statement prior to such consultation. In addition to the foregoing, except to the extent disclosed in or consistent with the Offer Documents, neither NYSE Euronext nor Deutsche Brse shall issue any press release or otherwise make any public statement or disclosure concerning the other party or the other party's business, financial condition or results of operations, to the extent not previously disclosed, without the consent of the other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Publicity
Section 7.8. . Neither Holdco, Deutsche Brse, NYSE Euronext nor Merger Sub shall take any action or knowingly fail to take any action, which action or failure to act would prevent or impede, or would be reasonably likely to prevent or impede, (i) the Merger from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and/or the Merger and the Offer, taken together, from qualifying as an exchange within the meaning of Section 351(a) of the Code, (ii) the Offer and/or the Merger and the Offer, taken together, from qualifying as a transaction described in Section 351(a) of the Code, or (iii) the receipt by NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse of the IRS private letter ruling or rulings contemplated by paragraph II.(b) and paragraph III.(b) of .
Certain Tax Matters
Annex II
Section 7.9. . Subject to Sections 7.2 and 9.5, whether or not the Offer or the Merger is consummated, all Expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such Expenses; that (i) the registration and filing fees and the printing and mailing costs of the F-4 Prospectuses, Registration Statement, the Offer Documents and the Admission Prospectuses and the tombstone advertisement for the Offer, (ii) any required filing fees with any Governmental Entity or Self-Regulatory Organization in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, in each of cases (i) and (ii), shall be shared equally by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse unless prohibited by applicable Law. In case of a termination of this Agreement by either party, any Expenses incurred by Holdco and/or its affiliates, shall be borne equally by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse as joint and several debtors and Holdco and/or its affiliates shall be indemnified by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse; that NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall not be obligated to make such indemnification if any designee of
Expenses
provided
provided
 
Deutsche Brse or NYSE Euronext, respectively, to the board or management of Holdco and/or its affiliates shall have caused Holdco to have breached its obligations under this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, "" includes all out-of-pocket expenses (including all fees and expenses of counsel, accountants, investment bankers, experts and consultants to a party hereto and its affiliates) incurred by a party or on its behalf in connection with or related to the authorization, preparation, negotiation, execution and performance of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the preparation, printing, filing and mailing of the Offer Documents and the solicitation of stockholder approvals and tenders and all other matters related to the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including in the case of Holdco any Expenses incurred by it and/or its affiliates in connection with the incorporation and financing of Holdco prior to the signing hereof.
Expenses
Section 7.10. .
Indemnification; Directors' and Officers' Insurance
(a) From and after the Effective Time, Holdco shall (i) indemnify and hold harmless, and provide advancement of expenses to, all past and present directors, officers and employees of NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries (in all of their capacities) (A) to the same extent such persons are indemnified or have the right to advancement of expenses as of the date of this Agreement by NYSE Euronext pursuant to the NYSE Euronext Organizational Documents, NYSE Euronext Subsidiary Organizational Documents and indemnification agreements, if any, in existence on the date hereof with any directors, officers and employees of NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries and (B) without limitation to clause (A), to the fullest extent permitted by law, in each case for acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Effective Time (including for acts or omissions occurring in connection with the approval of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby), (ii) include and cause to be maintained in effect in Holdco's (or any successor's) certificate of incorporation and bylaws after the Effective Time, provisions regarding elimination of liability of directors, indemnification of officers, directors and employees and advancement of expenses which are, in the aggregate, no less advantageous to the intended beneficiaries than the corresponding provisions contained in the current certificate of incorporation and constitution of NYSE Euronext and (iii) cause to be maintained for a period of six years after the Effective Time the current policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance and fiduciary liability insurance maintained by NYSE Euronext (provided that Holdco (or any successor) may substitute therefor one or more policies of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms and conditions which are, in the aggregate, no less advantageous to the insured) with respect to claims arising from facts or events that occurred on or before the Effective Time; , , that in no event shall Holdco be required to expend in any one year an amount in excess of 250% of the annual premiums (such 250% amount, the "") currently paid by NYSE Euronext for such insurance; and, , , that if the annual premiums of such insurance coverage exceed such amount, Holdco shall be obligated to obtain a policy with the greatest coverage available for a cost not exceeding such amount. Holdco may, in lieu of maintaining the insurance described in clause (iii) of this Section 7.10(a), purchase a six-year "tail" prepaid policy on terms and
provided
however
Maximum NYSE Euronext Insurance Amount
provided
further
 
conditions no less advantageous to the insured than the current directors' and officers' liability insurance and fiduciary liability insurance maintained by NYSE Euronext; that the amount paid by Holdco shall not exceed six times the Maximum NYSE Euronext Insurance Amount. The obligations of Holdco under this Section 7.10(a) shall not be terminated or modified in such a manner as to adversely affect any indemnitee to whom this Section 7.10(a) applies without the consent of such affected indemnitee (it being expressly agreed that the indemnitees to whom this Section 7.10(a) applies shall be third-party beneficiaries of this Section 7.10(a)).
provided
(b) From and after the Effective Time, Holdco shall (i) indemnify and hold harmless, and provide advancement of expenses to, all past and present directors, officers and employees of Deutsche Brse and its Subsidiaries (in all of their capacities) (A) to the same extent such persons are indemnified or have the right to advancement of expenses as of the date of this Agreement by Deutsche Brse pursuant to the Deutsche Brse Organizational Documents, Deutsche Brse Subsidiary Organizational Documents and indemnification agreements, if any, in existence on the date hereof with any directors, officers and employees of Deutsche Brse and its Subsidiaries and (B) without limitation to clause (A), to the fullest extent permitted by law, in each case for acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Effective Time (including for acts or omissions occurring in connection with the approval of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby), (ii) include and cause to be maintained in effect in Holdco's (or any successor's) certificate of incorporation and bylaws after the Effective Time, provisions regarding elimination of liability of directors, indemnification of officers, directors and employees and advancement of expenses which are, in the aggregate, no less advantageous to the intended beneficiaries than the corresponding provisions contained in the current certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Deutsche Brse and (iii) cause to be maintained for a period of six years after the Effective Time the current policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance and fiduciary liability insurance maintained by Deutsche Brse (provided that Holdco (or any successor) may substitute therefor one or more policies of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms and conditions which are, in the aggregate, no less advantageous to the insured) with respect to claims arising from facts or events that occurred on or before the Effective Time; , , that in no event shall Holdco be required to expend in any one year an amount in excess of 250% of the annual premiums (such 250% amount, the "") currently paid by Deutsche Brse for such insurance (which annual premiums are set forth in Section 7.10(b) of the Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter); and, , , that if the annual premiums of such insurance coverage exceed such amount, Holdco shall be obligated to obtain a policy with the greatest coverage available for a cost not exceeding such amount. Holdco may, in lieu of maintaining the insurance described in clause (iii) of Section 7.10(b), purchase a six-year "tail" prepaid policy on terms and conditions no less advantageous to the insured than the current directors' and officers' liability insurance and fiduciary liability insurance maintained by Deutsche Brse; that the amount paid by Holdco shall not exceed six times the Maximum Deutsche Brse Insurance Amount. The obligations of Holdco under this Section 7.10(b) shall not be terminated or modified in such a manner as to adversely
provided
however
Maximum Deutsche Brse Insurance Amount
provided
further
provided
 
affect any indemnitee to whom this Section 7.10(b) applies without the consent of such affected indemnitee (it being expressly agreed that the indemnitees to whom this Section 7.10(b) applies shall be third party beneficiaries of this Section 7.10(b)).
Section 7.11. .
Other Actions by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse
(a) . Prior to the Effective Time, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall take all such steps as may be required to cause any dispositions of NYSE Euronext Shares (including derivative securities with respect to NYSE Euronext Shares) or acquisitions of Holdco Shares (including derivative securities with respect to Holdco Shares) resulting from the transactions contemplated by this Agreement by each individual who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to NYSE Euronext to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
Section 16 Matters
(b) . Until the earlier of the Effective Time and the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, (i) NYSE Euronext shall promptly advise Deutsche Brse of any change or event that it believes would or would reasonably be likely to cause or constitute a Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext; and (ii) Deutsche Brse shall promptly advise NYSE Euronext of any change or event that it believes would or would reasonably be likely to cause or constitute a Material Adverse Effect on Deutsche Brse; that failure to so promptly advise shall itself not constitute a material breach or failure of a condition unless the underlying change or event shall also constitute a material breach or failure.
Advice of Changes
provided
(c) Deutsche Brse agrees that as promptly as practicable after the commencement of the Offer, and in any event no later than 10 business days following the recommendation of the Offer by either of the Deutsche Brse Boards, it shall tender into the Offer all of the Deutsche Brse Treasury Shares (and any Deutsche Brse Shares acquired after the date hereof) in accordance with the terms of the Tender Offer Prospectus, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances. Deutsche Brse agrees that once the Deutsche Brse Treasury Shares are tendered into the Offer, it shall not withdraw the tender of such Deutsche Brse Treasury Shares unless the Offer shall have been terminated or shall have expired, in each case, in accordance with the terms of the Tender Offer Prospectus or in the case of a Change in Recommendation.
Agreement to Tender.
Section 7.12. . Prior to the Effective Time, Holdco shall take or cause to be taken all such steps as may be required for Holdco to issue the Holdco Shares, Holdco Stock Options (and Holdco Shares underlying such options) and the Holdco Stock-Based Awards (and Holdco Shares underlying such awards) in respect of the Merger and the Offer (the ""), including the due preparation the of (i) shareholders resolutions, (ii) instruments of issuance and (iii) descriptions of contribution and receipt of accountants' statements pursuant to section 2:94b of the Dutch Civil Code confirming the valuation of the in-kind capital raise.
Holdco Capital Increase
Holdco Capital Increase
 
Section 7.13.
Employee Matters
(a) For the one-year period beginning on the Effective Time (the ""), Holdco shall provide or cause to be provided to each individual who is employed as of the Effective Time by NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries or by Deutsche Brse and its Subsidiaries and who remains employed by NYSE Euronext and its Subsidiaries or by Deutsche Brse and its Subsidiaries (such employees collectively, the "") (i) base salary in an amount no less than the base salary provided to the Affected Employee immediately prior to the Effective Time, (ii) an annual bonus opportunity that is no less favorable than the annual bonus opportunity provided to the Affected Employee immediately prior to the Effective Time, and (iii) other compensation opportunities and employee benefits that are no less favorable in the aggregate than those provided to the Affected Employee immediately prior to the Effective Time. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, during the Benefit Continuation Period, (x) Holdco shall provide to each Affected Employee who suffers a termination of employment by Holdco and its Subsidiaries severance benefits in amounts and on terms and conditions no less favorable in the aggregate to such Affected Employee than such Affected Employee would have received under the severance plans, programs, policies and arrangements applicable to such Affected Employee as of the date hereof, and (y) defined contribution retirement plan benefits provided to Affected Employees no less favorable to Affected Employees than such benefits on the date hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Section 7.13(a) shall not apply with respect to Affected Employees whose employment is governed by a collective bargaining or similar agreement.
Benefit Continuation Period
Affected Employees
(b) Prior to the end of the Benefit Continuation Period, Holdco shall review, evaluate and analyze NYSE Euronext Benefit Plans and Deutsche Brse Benefit Plans with a view towards developing appropriate new Benefit Plans for Affected Employees. It is the intention of Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext, to the extent permitted by applicable Laws, to develop new Benefit Plans, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Time, which, among other things, (A) treat similarly situated Affected Employees on a substantially equivalent basis, taking into account all relevant factors, including duties, geographic location, tenure, qualifications, and abilities, and (B) do not discriminate between Affected Employees who were covered by NYSE Euronext Benefit Plans, on the one hand, and those covered by Deutsche Brse Benefit Plans, on the other, at the Effective Time.
(c) With respect to any Benefit Plans in which any Affected Employees first become eligible to participate on or after the Effective Time, and in which such Affected Employees did not participate prior to the Effective Time (the ""), Holdco shall, or shall cause its Subsidiaries (subject to applicable Law and applicable tax qualification requirements) to: (i) waive all pre-existing conditions, exclusions and waiting periods with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to the Affected Employees and their eligible dependents under any New Plans in which such Affected Employees may be eligible to participate after the Effective Time, except to the extent such pre-existing conditions, exclusions or waiting periods
New Plans
 
would apply under the analogous NYSE Euronext Benefit Plan or Deutsche Brse Benefit Plan, as the case may be; (ii) provide each Affected Employee and his or her eligible dependents with credit for any co-payments and deductibles paid prior to the Effective Time under an NYSE Euronext Benefit Plan or Deutsche Brse Benefit Plan (to the same extent that such credit was given under the analogous NYSE Euronext Benefit Plan or Deutsche Brse Benefit Plan, as applicable, prior to the Effective Time) in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any New Plans in which such Affected Employee may be eligible to participate after the Effective Time for the same plan year; and (iii) recognize all service of the Affected Employees with NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse and their respective affiliates for all purposes (including, purposes of eligibility to participate, vesting credit, entitlement to benefits) in any New Plan in which such employees may be eligible to participate after the Effective Time, including any severance plan, to the extent such service is taken into account under the applicable New Plan (to the extent recognized under the corresponding NYSE Euronext Benefit Plan or Deutsche Brse Benefit Plan); provided that the foregoing shall not apply for purposes of benefit accrual under final average pay defined benefit plans or to the extent it would result in duplication of benefits.
(d) Subject to Section 7.13(a), no provision of this Section 7.13 shall be construed as a limitation on the right of Holdco and its Subsidiaries to amend or terminate any specific NYSE Euronext Benefit Plan or Deutsche Brse Benefit Plan that NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse would otherwise have under the terms of such NYSE Euronext Benefit Plan or Deutsche Brse Benefit Plan, or shall any provision of this Section 7.13 be construed to require the continuation of the employment of any particular Affected Employee. The provisions of this Section 7.13 are solely for the benefit of the parties to this Agreement, and no current or former director, officer, employee or independent contractor or any other person shall be a third-party beneficiary of this Section 7.13 of this Agreement, and nothing herein shall be construed as an amendment to any Deutsche Brse Benefit Plan, NYSE Euronext Benefit Plan or other compensation or benefit plan or arrangement for any purpose.
(e) NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall consult with each other in a good faith and in a reasonably timely manner in advance of any material communications with Affected Employees regarding the impact of the transactions contemplated under this Agreement on the NYSE Euronext Benefit Plans, Deutsche Brse Benefit Plans or the New Plans, as the case may be.
Section 8.1. . The obligation of NYSE Euronext to consummate the Merger is subject to the prior occurrence of the Acceptance Time.
Condition to NYSE Euronext's Obligation to Effect the Merger
 
Section 9.1. . This Agreement may be terminated by mutual written consent of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse at any time prior to the Effective Time.
Termination by Mutual Consent
Section 9.2. . This Agreement may be terminated by either NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse at any time prior to the Effective Time:
Termination by Either NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse
(a) if the Effective Time shall not have occurred by December 31, 2011 (such date, as it may be extended under the proviso below, the ""), whether such date is before or after the date of the receipt of the NYSE Euronext Requisite Vote; , , that each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to extend the Termination Date to March 31, 2012, if the only conditions set forth in that have not been satisfied (other than those conditions that NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse have mutually agreed to waive, if and to the extent that such waiver is permitted by applicable Law) are the conditions set forth in paragraphs I.(b), I.(c), I.(e), I.(f) and/or I.(g) of ; , , that neither (x) the right to extend the Termination Date nor (y) the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this clause 9.2(a) may be exercised by any party whose failure or whose Subsidiary's failure to perform any material covenant or obligation under this Agreement has been the cause of, or resulted in, the failure of any such closing condition to be satisfied on or before the Termination Date;
Termination Date
provided
however
Annex II
Annex II
provided
further
(b) if the NYSE Euronext Requisite Vote shall not have been obtained after a vote of the NYSE Euronext stockholders has been taken and completed at the NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting or at any adjournment or postponement thereof;
(c) if the acceptance period for the Offer shall have expired in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and the Minimum Condition shall have been neither satisfied nor waived; or
(d) if any Governmental Entity or Self-Regulatory Organization (if applicable), which must grant a regulatory approval required under paragraph I.(c) or I.(g) of Annex II, has denied such grant in writing and such denial has become final, binding and non-appealable, or any Order permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting consummation of the Offer or the Merger shall become final and non-appealable; that the party seeking to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 9.2(d) shall have used its reasonable best efforts to (x) prevent the denial of such grant and/or (y) prevent the entry of and to remove such Order, as applicable.
provided
 
Section 9.3. . This Agreement may be terminated by NYSE Euronext at any time prior to the Effective Time:
Termination by NYSE Euronext
(a) if either Deutsche Brse Board shall have effected a Change in Deutsche Brse Recommendation;
(b) if (i) any representation or warranty of Deutsche Brse set forth in Sections 6.2(b) (Capitalization) or 6.2(c) (Corporate Authority) of this Agreement shall fail to be accurate in all material respects as of the date of this Agreement or as of any subsequent date as if made as of such subsequent date (unless such representation or warranty expressly speaks as of an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date) or (ii) any of the other representations or warranties of Deutsche Brse set forth in the Agreement (reading such representations and warranties without regard to any materiality or Material Adverse Effect qualifications contained therein) shall fail to be accurate in all material respects as of the date of this Agreement or as of any subsequent date as if made as of such subsequent date (unless such representation or warranty expressly speaks as of an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date), except, in the case of this clause (ii), where the failure to be so true and correct, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Deutsche Brse; that, in each of the cases set forth in clauses (i) and (ii), NYSE Euronext shall have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant thereto only if failure to be true (i) is not curable or (ii) if curable, is not cured prior to the earlier of (A) the business day prior to the Termination Date or (B) the date that is 60 days after the date that written notice thereof is given by NYSE Euronext to Deutsche Brse; or
provided
(c) if Deutsche Brse shall have failed to perform in any material respect any of its covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement required to be performed by Deutsche Brse, and such breach (i) is not curable or (ii) if curable, is not cured prior to the earlier of (A) the business day prior to the Termination Date or (B) the date that is 60 days after the date that written notice thereof is given by NYSE Euronext to Deutsche Brse.
Section 9.4. . This Agreement may be terminated by Deutsche Brse at any time prior to the Effective Time:
Termination by Deutsche Brse
(a) if the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext shall have effected a Change in NYSE Euronext Recommendation;
(b) if (i) any representation or warranty of NYSE Euronext set forth in Sections 6.1(b) (Capitalization) or 6.1(c) (Corporate Authority) of this Agreement shall fail to be accurate in all material respects as of the date of this Agreement or as of any subsequent date as if made as of such subsequent date (unless such representation or warranty expressly speaks as of an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date) or (ii) any of the other representations or warranties of NYSE Euronext set forth in the Agreement (reading such representations and warranties without regard to any
 
materiality or Material Adverse Effect qualifications contained therein) shall fail to be accurate in all material respects as of the date of this Agreement or as of any subsequent date as if made as of such subsequent date (unless such representation or warranty expressly speaks as of an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date), except, in the case of this clause (ii), where the failure to be so true and correct, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext; that, in each of the cases set forth in clauses (i) and (ii), Deutsche Brse shall have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant thereto only if failure to be true (i) is not curable or (ii) if curable, is not cured prior to the earlier of (A) the business day prior to the Termination Date or (B) the date that is 60 days after the date that written notice thereof is given by Deutsche Brse to NYSE Euronext; or
provided
(c) if NYSE Euronext shall have failed to perform in any material respect any of its covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement required to be performed by NYSE Euronext, and such breach (i) is not curable or (ii) if curable, is not cured prior to the earlier of (A) the business day prior to the Termination Date or (B) the date that is 60 days after the date that written notice thereof is given by Deutsche Brse to NYSE Euronext.
Section 9.5. .
Effect of Termination and Abandonment
(a) . In the event of termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Article IX, this Agreement (other than as set forth in this Section 9.5 and Section 10.1) shall become void and of no effect with no liability on the part of any party hereto (or of any of its directors, officers, employees, agents, legal and financial advisors or other representatives); , , that, except as otherwise provided herein, no such termination shall relieve any party hereto of any liability or damages resulting from any fraud or willful and material breach of this Agreement; , , that the parties shall cooperate with each other in connection with the withdrawal of any applications to or termination of proceedings before any Governmental Entity or Self-Regulatory Organization (if applicable) in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean a material breach that is a consequence of an act undertaken by the breaching party with the knowledge that the taking of such act would, or would reasonably be expected to, cause a breach of this Agreement.
Effect of Termination and Abandonment
provided
however
provided
further
willful and material breach
(b)
Termination Fee Payable by NYSE Euronext
(i) In the event that (A) an Acquisition Proposal for NYSE Euronext shall have been publicly announced or made publicly known or otherwise communicated or made known to management or the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext (or any third party shall have publicly announced, communicated or made known a bona fide intention, whether or not conditional, to make a proposal with respect to an Acquisition Proposal) at any time after the date of this Agreement and
 
prior to the date of the NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting and (B) this Agreement is terminated by Deutsche Brse pursuant to Section 9.4(a) or is terminated by either NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse pursuant to Section 9.2(b) (and, at the time of such termination pursuant to Section 9.2(b), Deutsche Brse had a right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 9.4(a)), then NYSE Euronext shall, prior to such termination, pay or cause to be paid to Deutsche Brse an amount equal to 250,000,000 (the "") by wire transfer of same day funds.
NYSE Euronext Termination Payment
(ii) In the event that (A) an Acquisition Proposal for NYSE Euronext shall have been publicly announced or made publicly known, (B) thereafter, this Agreement is terminated by NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse pursuant to Section 9.2(b), and (C) within 9 months of such termination pursuant to Section 9.2(b), NYSE Euronext or any of its Subsidiaries executes any Alternative Acquisition Agreement with respect to, or consummates, or approves or recommends to the NYSE Euronext stockholders to accept, any Acquisition Proposal for NYSE Euronext (it being understood that, for purposes of this clause (C), the term "Acquisition Proposal" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 7.2(a) except that each reference to "15% or more" in the definition of "Acquisition Proposal" and "Major Subsidiary" shall be deemed to be a reference to "40% or more"), then NYSE Euronext shall, prior to the completion of such acquisition or transaction (or, if earlier, the entry into such Contract), pay or cause to be paid to Deutsche Brse, by wire transfer of same day funds, the NYSE Euronext Termination Payment.
(c)
Termination Fee Payable by Deutsche Brse
(i) In the event that (A) a proposal with respect to an Acquisition Proposal for Deutsche Brse shall have been publicly announced or made publicly known or otherwise communicated or made known to management or the Deutsche Brse Boards (or any third party shall have publicly announced, communicated or made known a bona fide intention, whether or not conditional, to make a proposal with respect to an Acquisition Proposal) at any time after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Expiration Time, and (B) this Agreement is terminated by NYSE Euronext pursuant to Section 9.3(a) or is terminated by either party pursuant to Section 9.2(c) (and, at the time of such termination pursuant to Section 9.2(c), NYSE Euronext had a right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 9.3(a)), then Deutsche Brse shall, prior to such termination, pay or cause to be paid to NYSE Euronext an amount equal to 250,000,000 (the "") by wire transfer of same day funds.
Deutsche Brse Termination Payment
(ii) In the event that (A) an Acquisition Proposal for Deutsche Brse shall have been publicly announced or made publicly known, (B) thereafter, this Agreement is terminated by NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse pursuant to Section 9.2(c), and (C) within 9 months of such termination pursuant to Section 9.2(c), Deutsche Brse or any of its Subsidiaries executes any Alternative Acquisition
 
Agreement with respect to, or consummates, or approves or recommends to Deutsche Brse shareholders to accept, any Acquisition Proposal for Deutsche Brse (it being understood that, for purposes of this clause (C), the term "Acquisition Proposal" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 7.2(a) except each that reference to "15% or more" in the definition of "Acquisition Proposal" and "Major Subsidiary" shall be deemed to be a reference to "40% or more"), then Deutsche Brse shall, prior to the completion of such acquisition or transaction (or, if earlier, the entry into such Contract), pay or cause to be paid to NYSE Euronext, by wire transfer of same day funds, the Deutsche Brse Termination Payment.
(d) . Each of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse acknowledges that the agreements contained in this Section 9.5 are an integral part of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and that, without these agreements, the other party would not enter into this Agreement; accordingly, if either party fails to promptly pay or cause to be paid the amount due pursuant to this Section 9.5, and, in order to obtain such payment, the other party commences a suit that results in a judgment against such party for the payment set forth in this Section 9.5 or any portion of such payment, such party shall pay the other party its costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees) in connection with such suit, together with interest on the amount of the payment at the prime rate of Citibank, N.A., in effect on the date such payment was required to be paid, from the date on which such payment was required through the date of actual payment. In no event shall NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse be obligated pursuant to this Section 9.5 to pay more than one NYSE Euronext Termination Payment or Deutsche Brse Termination Payment, respectively.
Interest
Section 10.1. . This Article X and the agreements of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse contained in Section 7.6 (Exchange Listing) and Section 7.10 (Indemnification; Directors' and Officers' Insurance) shall survive the consummation of the Merger and the Offer. This Article X, the agreements of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse contained in Section 7.9 (Expenses), Section 9.5 (Effect of Termination and Abandonment; Expense Reimbursement) and the Confidentiality Agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement. No other representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in this Agreement shall survive the consummation of the Merger and the Offer or the termination of this Agreement.
Survival
Section 10.2. . Subject to the provisions of applicable Law, and except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented only by a written instrument executed and delivered by all of the parties hereto, whether before or after approval of the matters presented in connection with the Offer and the Merger by NYSE Euronext stockholders;
Modification or Amendment
 
provided that, after any such approval, no amendment shall be made for which applicable Law or the rules of any relevant stock exchange requires further approval by such stockholders without such further approval.
Section 10.3. .
Waiver of Conditions
(a) The conditions to each of the parties' obligations to consummate the Merger and the Offer are for the sole benefit of such party and may be waived by such party in whole or in part to the extent permitted by applicable Law.
(b) NYSE Euronext shall waive the condition described in clause (i) of the first sentence of paragraph II.(b) of Annex II in the event NYSE Euronext shall have received an opinion of counsel, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to NYSE Euronext, on the basis of representations and warranties set forth or referred to in such opinion, dated as of the date referred to in Section 10.3(d) hereof, to the effect that the Merger will qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and/or the Merger and the Offer, taken together, will qualify as an exchange within the meaning of Section 351(a) of the Code. NYSE Euronext shall waive the condition described in clause (ii) of the first sentence of paragraph II.(b) of Annex II in the event NYSE Euronext shall have received an opinion of counsel, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to NYSE Euronext, on the basis of representations and warranties set forth or referred to in such opinion, dated as of the date referred to in Section 10.3(d) hereof, to the effect that each transfer of NYSE Euronext stock to Holdco by a stockholder of NYSE Euronext (other than a stockholder that is a "five percent transferee shareholder" with respect to Holdco within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.367(a)-3(c)(5)(ii)) pursuant to the Merger will not be subject to Section 367(a)(1) of the Code. In rendering such opinions, such counsel may require and shall be entitled to rely upon representations of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse and Holdco.
(c) Deutsche Brse shall waive the condition described in paragraph III.(b) of Annex II in the event Deutsche Brse shall have received an opinion of counsel, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Deutsche Brse, on the basis of representations and warranties set forth or referred to in such opinion, dated as of the date referred to in Section 10.3(d) hereof, to the effect that the Offer will qualify as a transaction described in Section 351 of the Code and/or the Offer and the Merger, taken together, will qualify as transaction described in Section 351(a) of the Code. In rendering such opinion, such counsel may require and shall be entitled to rely upon representations of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse and Holdco.
(d) To the extent the conditions described in paragraph II.(b) and paragraph III.(b) of Annex II shall not have been satisfied or waived pursuant to Section 10.3(b) or Section 10.3(c), as applicable, on or prior to the fourth day prior to the date on which the Expiration Time is scheduled to occur (or such later date as permitted by the BaFin), the parties shall discuss in good faith whether such conditions shall be waived (it being agreed that there shall not be any obligation to waive any of such conditions
 
pursuant to this paragraph (d)). Any waiver, in whole or in part, of the conditions described in paragraph II.(b) or paragraph III.(b) of Annex II shall be made no later than four days prior to the date on which the Expiration Time is scheduled to occur (or such later date as permitted by the BaFin).
(e) If either NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse requests a waiver of the condition described in paragraph I.(h) of Annex II, the timing of any such waiver shall be subject to mutual agreement of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse; that, if no agreement is reached on the timing of any such waiver, and either NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse requests a waiver of such condition, then Holdco shall waive such condition at the latest time during the Offer permitted by applicable Law.
provided
Section 10.4. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts shall together constitute the same agreement.
Counterparts
Section 10.5. .
GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
(a) EXCEPT FOR (i) PROVISIONS RELATING TO "MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT," AS DEFINED IN SECTION 6.1(a) OF THIS AGREEMENT, WHICH SHALL BE INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED AND GOVERNED BY AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF DELAWARE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF, (ii) THE FIDUCIARY DUTIES OF THE NYSE EURONEXT BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE VALIDITY OF ANY CORPORATE ACTION ON THE PART OF NYSE EURONEXT AND MERGER SUB, WHICH SHALL BE INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED AND GOVERNED BY AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF DELAWARE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF AND (iii) THE FIDUCIARY DUTIES OF THE DEUTSCHE BRSE BOARDS AND THE VALIDITY OF ANY CORPORATE ACTION ON THE PART OF DEUTSCHE BRSE, WHICH SHALL BE INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED AND GOVERNED BY AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF GERMANY WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE MADE IN, AND IN ALL RESPECTS SHALL BE INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED AND GOVERNED BY AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF, THE NETHERLANDS WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
(b) The parties hereby irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the District Court () of Amsterdam, The Netherlands in first instance, subject to appeal to the appropriate Court of Appeal and the Dutch Supreme Court, if applicable (the "") in respect of any claim, dispute or controversy relating to or arising out of the negotiation, interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement or any of the documents referred to in this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby (any such claim being a ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement shall limit the right of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche
Rechtbank
Dutch Courts
Covered Claim
 
Brse, Holdco or any of their respective Subsidiaries or affiliates to commence or prosecute any legal action against another party or any of its Subsidiaries or affiliates in any court of competent jurisdiction in the United States, France, Germany, or elsewhere to enforce the judgments and orders of the Dutch Courts.
(c) NYSE Euronext hereby irrevocably designates Euronext N.V. (in such capacity, the ""), with an office at Beursplein 5, 1012 JW Amsterdam, The Netherlands, as its designee, appointee and agent to receive, for and on its behalf service of process in such jurisdiction in any legal action or proceedings with respect to this Agreement or any other agreement executed in connection with this Agreement, and such service shall be deemed complete upon delivery thereof to the NYSE Euronext Process Agent; that, in the case of any such service upon the NYSE Euronext Process Agent, the party effecting such service shall also deliver a copy thereof to NYSE Euronext. NYSE Euronext shall take all such action as may be necessary to continue said appointment in full force and effect or to appoint another agent so that NYSE Euronext will at all times have an agent for service of process for the above purposes in The Netherlands. In the event of the transfer of all or substantially all of the assets and business of the NYSE Euronext Process Agent to any other person or entity by consolidation, merger, sale of assets or otherwise, such other person or entity shall be substituted hereunder for the NYSE Euronext Process Agent with the same effect as if named herein in place of such NYSE Euronext Process Agent. NYSE Euronext further irrevocably consents to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any such action or proceeding by the mailing of copies thereof by registered airmail, postage prepaid, to such party at its address set forth in this Agreement, such service of process to be effective upon acknowledgment of receipt of such registered mail. Nothing herein shall affect the right of any party to serve process in any other manner permitted by applicable law. NYSE Euronext expressly acknowledges that the foregoing waiver is intended to be irrevocable under the laws of The Netherlands.
NYSE Euronext Process Agent
provided
(d) Deutsche Brse hereby irrevocably designates Deutsche International Trust Company N.V. (in such capacity the ""), with an office at Herengracht 450, 1017 CA Amsterdam, The Netherlands, as its designee, appointee and agent to receive, for and on its behalf service of process in such jurisdiction in any legal action or proceedings with respect to this Agreement or any other agreement executed in connection with this Agreement, and such service shall be deemed complete upon delivery thereof to the Deutsche Brse Process Agent; that, in the case of any such service upon the Deutsche Brse Process Agent, the party effecting such service shall also deliver a copy thereof to Deutsche Brse. Deutsche Brse shall take all such action as may be necessary to continue said appointment in full force and effect or to appoint another agent so that Deutsche Brse will at all times have an agent for service of process for the above purposes in The Netherlands. In the event of the transfer of all or substantially all of the assets and business of the Deutsche Brse Process Agent to any other person or entity by consolidation, merger, sale of assets or otherwise, such other person or entity shall be substituted hereunder for the Deutsche Brse Process Agent with the same effect as if
Deutsche Brse Process Agent
provided
 
named herein in place of such Deutsche Brse Process Agent. Deutsche Brse further irrevocably consents to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any such action or proceeding by the mailing of copies thereof by registered airmail, postage prepaid, to such party at its address set forth in this Agreement, such service of process to be effective upon acknowledgment of receipt of such registered mail. Nothing herein shall affect the right of any party to serve process in any other manner permitted by applicable law. Deutsche Brse expressly acknowledges that the foregoing waiver is intended to be irrevocable under the laws of The Netherlands.
Section 10.6. . Any disclosure contained in the NYSE Euronext Disclosure Letter or the Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter shall apply to any other section or subsection of the NYSE Euronext Disclosure Letter or Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter, respectively, where the applicability of such disclosure is reasonably apparent. The mere inclusion of any item in the NYSE Euronext Disclosure Letter as an exception to a representation or warranty of NYSE Euronext or the Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter as an exception to a representation or warranty of Deutsche Brse in this Agreement shall not be deemed to be an admission that such item is a material exception, fact, event or circumstance, or that such item, individually or in the aggregate, has had or is reasonably expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, or trigger any other materiality qualification.
Disclosure Letters
Section 10.7. . Any notice, request, instruction or other document to be given hereunder by any party to the others shall be in writing and delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid or by prepaid overnight courier (providing written proof of delivery), or by confirmed facsimile transmission or electronic mail, addressed as follows:
Notices
 
 
or to such other persons or addresses as may be designated in writing by the party to receive such notice as provided above.
Section 10.8. . This Agreement (including any exhibits hereto), the NYSE Euronext Disclosure Letter, the Deutsche Brse Disclosure Letter and the Confidentiality Agreement, dated September 22, 2008, between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse (the "") constitute the entire agreement, and supersede all other prior agreements, understandings, representations and warranties both written and oral, among the parties, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
Confidentiality Agreement
 
Section 10.9. . Except as provided in Section 7.10 (Indemnification; Directors' and Officers' Insurance), this Agreement is not intended to, and does not, confer upon any Person other than the parties who are signatories hereto any rights or remedies hereunder. The parties hereto further agree that the rights of third-party beneficiaries under Section 7.10 shall not arise unless and until the Effective Time occurs.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries
Section 10.10. . Whenever this Agreement requires a Subsidiary of Holdco, NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse to take any action, such requirement shall be deemed to include an undertaking on the part of Holdco, NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as appropriate, to cause such Subsidiary to take such action.
Obligations of Deutsche Brse and of NYSE Euronext
Section 10.11. . All transfer, documentary, sales, use, stamp, registration and other such Taxes and fees (including penalties and interest) incurred in connection with the Offer or the Merger shall be paid by the party upon which such Taxes are imposed; that any transfer taxes with respect to interests in real property owned, directly or indirectly, by NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or any of their respective subsidiaries shall be borne by Holdco and expressly shall not be a liability of the stockholders of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse.
Transfer Taxes
provided
Section 10.12. . Each of the terms set forth in is defined on the page of this Agreement set forth opposite such term.
Definitions
Annex I
Section 10.13. . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability or the other provisions hereof. If any provision of this Agreement, or the application thereof to any Person or any circumstance, is invalid or unenforceable, (a) a suitable and equitable provision shall be substituted therefor in order to carry out, so far as may be valid and enforceable, the intent and purpose of such invalid or unenforceable provision and (b) the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to other Persons or circumstances shall not be affected by such invalidity or unenforceability, nor shall such invalidity or unenforceability affect the validity or enforceability of such provision, or the application thereof, in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
Section 10.14. .
Interpretation; Construction
(a) The table of contents and headings herein are for convenience of reference only, do not constitute part of this Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any of the provisions hereof. Where a reference in this Agreement is made to a Section, Schedule or Exhibit, such reference shall be to a Section of, Schedule to or Exhibit to this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The term "knowledge of NYSE Euronext" shall be deemed to mean the actual knowledge of the individuals set forth on
 
. The term "knowledge of Deutsche Brse" shall be deemed to mean the actual knowledge of the individuals set forth on .
Schedule II
Schedule III
(b) For purposes of the representations and warranties set forth in Article VI, the covenants set forth in Section 7.1 and any Offer Condition, all references to Euros () shall be deemed to include U.S. dollars ($) on the basis of an exchange rate of 1.35 Euros () to 1 U.S. dollar ($), and vice versa.
(c) The parties have participated jointly in negotiating and drafting this Agreement. In the event that an ambiguity or a question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provision of this Agreement.
Section 10.15. . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations under this Agreement shall be assigned, in whole or in part, by any of the parties hereto without the prior written consent of the other party. Any attempted or purported assignment in violation of the preceding sentence shall be null and void and of no effect whatsoever. Subject to the preceding two sentences, this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
Assignment
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized officers of the parties hereto as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Offer or this Agreement, and in addition to (and not in limitation of) Holdco's rights to extend and amend the Offer at any time in its sole discretion (subject to the provisions of the Agreement and to applicable Laws, including for the avoidance of doubt Rule 14e-1(c) under the Exchange Act (relating to Holdco's obligation to pay for or return tendered Deutsche Brse Shares promptly after termination or withdrawal of the Offer)), Holdco shall not be required to accept for payment or pay for, and may delay the acceptance for payment of or the payment for, any validly tendered Deutsche Brse Shares unless each of the following conditions shall be satisfied (or waived as set forth below).
I. . Conditions which may be waived by both NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse, acting together (or, in the case of paragraph (h), may be waived by either NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse), in each case, if and to the extent that such waiver is permitted by the Takeover Act:
Mutual Conditions
(a) . Prior to the Expiration Time (or, if the parties agree, such later date as permitted by the BaFin), the Minimum Condition shall have been satisfied.
Minimum Condition
(b) Any waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the Offer and the Merger under the Competition Approvals shall have expired or been terminated.
Competition Approvals.
(c) Prior to the Expiration Time, the Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and, prior to the Acceptance Time, shall not be the subject of any stop order or proceeding seeking a stop order.
Registration Statement.
(d) . Prior to the Expiration Time, the NYSE Euronext Requisite Vote shall have been obtained at the NYSE Euronext Stockholders Meeting.
NYSE Euronext Requisite Vote
(e) . The Holdco Shares to be issued in the Offer and the Merger and such other Holdco Shares to be reserved for issuance in connection with the Offer and the Merger pursuant to this Agreement shall have been authorized for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris, upon official notice of issuance.
Exchange Listing
(f) There shall not be pending any suit, action or proceeding by any Governmental Entity (i) challenging the acquisition by Holdco of any of the Deutsche Brse Shares or the NYSE Euronext Shares, seeking to restrain or
Governmental Proceeding.
 
prohibit the consummation of the Offer or the Merger, or seeking to place limitations on the ownership of the Deutsche Brse Shares or shares of common stock of the Surviving Corporation by Holdco or seeking to obtain from Deutsche Brse, NYSE Euronext or Holdco any damages that are material in relation to Deutsche Brse or to NYSE Euronext, (ii) seeking to prohibit or materially limit the ownership or operation by Deutsche Brse or any of its Subsidiaries, or by NYSE Euronext or any of its Subsidiaries, of any material portion of any business or of any assets of Deutsche Brse, NYSE Euronext or any of their respective Subsidiaries, or to compel Deutsche Brse, NYSE Euronext or any of their respective Subsidiaries to divest or hold separate any material portion of any business or of any assets of Deutsche Brse, NYSE Euronext or any of their respective Subsidiaries, as a result of the Offer or the Merger or (iii) seeking to prohibit Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries from effectively controlling in any material respect the business or operations of Deutsche Brse or its Subsidiaries or NYSE Euronext or its Subsidiaries except to the extent that NYSE Euronext is currently limited in its control of its "Regulated Subsidiaries" (as defined in the NYSE Euronext Organizational Documents).
(g) (i) The SEC shall have approved the applications under Rule 19b-4 of the Exchange Act submitted by NYSE Euronext and/or its applicable Subsidiaries and by Deutsche Brse and/or its applicable Subsidiaries in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Agreement; (ii) the Dutch Minister of Finance shall have issued a declaration of no objection to Holdco, (iii) the Dutch Minister of Finance or the AFM, as applicable, shall have confirmed, reissued, renewed or amended the existing declarations of no objection issued to NYSE Euronext, NYSE Euronext (International) B.V., NYSE Euronext (Holding) N.V. and Euronext N.V. pursuant to Sections 5:32d or 3:95(1)(c) of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, in each case allowing the relevant entity to acquire or hold, indirectly or directly, as the case may be, the shares of Euronext Amsterdam N.V.; (iv) the Dutch Minister of Finance and the AFM shall have reviewed and approved the proposed transaction pursuant to, and confirmed, reissued, renewed or amended, the existing exchange license granted to Euronext Amsterdam N.V. as well as NYSE Euronext, NYSE Euronext (International) B.V., NYSE Euronext (Holding) N.V. and Euronext N.V. pursuant to Sections 5:26 and 2:96 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act; (v) the College of Regulators and, to the extent required, any other Regulatory Authority shall have granted the requisite non-objection to the Offer, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (vi) to the extent required, CFIUS shall have granted approval under the Exon-Florio Amendment; and (vii) there shall have been obtained or made all other consents, approvals and actions of, filings with and notices to any Governmental Entity required of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse or any of their Subsidiaries to consummate the Offer and the Merger, the issuance of Holdco Shares in the Offer and the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Agreement (including any necessary amendments to existing exchange licenses and recognitions), the failure of which to be obtained, made or taken, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Substantial Detriment to Holdco, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse, and such consents, approvals and actions shall have been obtained on terms that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be
Other Approvals.
 
expected to have a Substantial Detriment to Holdco, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse and their respective Subsidiaries.
(h) Prior to the Expiration Time, there shall not have occurred a suspension of the currency trading or debt markets in (a) Frankfurt am Main, Federal Republic of Germany and London, England, or (b) New York, New York, U.S.A. for more than two trading days.
Material Adverse Market Change.
II. . Conditions which may be waived solely by NYSE Euronext:
Conditions Waivable by NYSE Euronext
(a) Prior to the Expiration Time, there shall not have been an Offer Material Adverse Effect on Deutsche Brse.
No Offer Material Adverse Effect on Deutsche Brse.
(b) . NYSE Euronext shall have received one or more private letter rulings from the IRS substantially to the effect that (i) the Merger will qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and/or the Merger and the Offer, taken together, will qualify as an exchange within the meaning of Section 351(a) of the Code, and (ii) (A) the transfer of NYSE Euronext Shares by U.S. persons for shares of Holdco will qualify for an exception to Section 367(a)(1) of the Code under Treasury Regulation Sections 1.367(a)-3(c)(1) and 1.367(a)-3(c)(9), and (B) any U.S. person transferring NYSE Euronext Shares who is a "5% transferee shareholder" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.367(a)-3(c)(5)(ii)) will qualify for the exception to Section 367(a)(1) of the Code only upon entering a five-year gain recognition agreement pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.367(a)-8.
IRS Ruling or Rulings
III. . Conditions which may be waived solely by Deutsche Brse:
Conditions Waivable by Deutsche Brse
(a) Prior to the Expiration Time, there shall not have been an Offer Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext.
No Offer Material Adverse Effect on NYSE Euronext.
(b) . Deutsche Brse shall have received a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that the Offer will qualify as a transaction described in Section 351 of the Code and/or the Offer and the Merger, taken together, will qualify as transaction described in Section 351(a) of the Code.
IRS Ruling or Rulings
For purposes of this , an "" on NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, as applicable, means any circumstance or circumstances relating to NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, respectively, that, according to the assessment of the Independent Expert, has or have resulted in, or would reasonably be expected to result in, individually or in the aggregate, a decrease in the consolidated net revenues of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, respectively, of at least $300,000,000 in the 2011 financial year and/or 2012
Annex II
Offer Material Adverse Effect
 
financial year of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse, respectively, to the extent the decrease is recurrent.
An Offer Material Adverse Effect will only be deemed to have occurred if, on or before the day before the publication of the results of the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 23 para. 1 sentence 1 no. 2 of the Takeover Law, an independent expert from Deloitte or another expert mutually selected by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse (the ""), using the due and careful consideration of a diligent professional has delivered an opinion that an Offer Material Adverse Effect has occurred. Either NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Brse may request that the Independent Expert undertake an evaluation of whether an Offer Material Adverse Effect has occurred with respect to the other party. The Independent Expert shall further render his opinion without undue delay and shall publish the result of his opinion without undue delay in the and the with reference to the Offer. The opinion of the Independent Expert shall be binding upon and non-appealable and shall be promptly disclosed publicly by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse.
Independent Expert
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung
Wall Street Journal
 
EXHIBIT A: Form of Holdco Articles of Association
Linklaters LLP
World Trade Centre Amsterdam
Zuidplein 180
1077 XV Amsterdam
Telephone (+31) 20 799 6200
Facsimile (+31) 20 799 6300
Ref MG/L-152813
NOTE ABOUT TRANSLATION:
This document is an English translation of a document prepared in Dutch. In preparing this document, an attempt has been made to translate as literally as possible without jeopardising the overall continuity of the text. Inevitably, however, differences may occur in translation and if they do, the Dutch text will govern by law. The definitions in article 1.1 of this document are listed in the English alphabetical order which may differ from the Dutch alphabetical order.
In this translation, Dutch legal concepts are expressed in English terms and not in their original Dutch terms. The concepts concerned may not be identical to concepts described by the English terms as such terms may be understood under the laws of other jurisdictions.
 
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION:
CHAPTER I
 
 
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 17.7.
Board Committees
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 17.6.
Board Rules
"" means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, New York, State of New York, United States of America and Paris, France.
Business Day
"" means [].
Closing Date
"" means the company the internal organisation of which is governed by these articles of association.
Company
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 14.6.
Company Secretary
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 35.2.
demerger
"" means each member of the Board; unless the contrary is apparent, this shall include each Executive Director and each Non-Executive Director.
Director
"" means the part of the Company's equity which exceeds the aggregate of the issued capital and the reserves which must be maintained pursuant to the laws of the Netherlands.
Distributable Equity
"" means a member of the Board, which member is particularly responsible for the daily affairs of the Company.
Executive Director
"" means the percentage rate per annum determined by the Banking Federation of the European Union for the relevant period, displayed on the appropriate page of the Reuters screen on the date of the first issue of Preference Shares and at each anniversary of such date, or if that is not a Business Day, the next Business Day. If the agreed page is replaced or service ceases to be available at that date, the Board may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate or otherwise determine the appropriate rate.
EURIBOR
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 14.2.
FPI-Status
"" or "" means the body of the Company consisting of the person or persons to whom, as a Shareholder or otherwise, voting rights attached to Shares accrue or (as the case may be) a meeting of such persons (or their representatives) and other persons entitled to attend such meetings.
General Meeting
General Meeting of Shareholders
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 15.1.
Group Chairman
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 16.1.
Group CEO
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 15.1.
Group Vice-Chairman
"" means transmitted by letter, telecopier or e-mail, or any other electronic means of communication, provided the relevant message is legible and reproducible.
in writing
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 14.1.
Initial Board Term
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 16.1.
Initial CEO Term
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 15.1.
Initial Chairman Term
"" means a member of the Board, which member is particularly responsible for the supervision of the policy of the Executive Directors and the general affairs of the Company.
Non-Executive Director
"" means an ordinary share in the capital of the Company.
Ordinary Share
"" means a cumulative preference share in the capital of the Company.
Preference Share
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 24.1.
Preferred Dividend
 
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in article 28.4.
record date
"" means a share in the capital of the Company. Unless the contrary is apparent, this shall include each Ordinary Share and each Preference Share.
Share
"" means a holder of one or more Shares. Unless the contrary is apparent, this shall include each holder of Ordinary Shares as well as each holder of Preference Shares.
Shareholder
"" means a subsidiary of the Company as referred to in Section 2:24a of the Dutch Civil Code.
Subsidiary
"" means the Company together with its Subsidiaries.
[Topco] Group
 
CHAPTER II
NAME, OFFICIAL SEAT AND OBJECTS
 
 
[TopCo] N.V.
 
 
 
The objects of the Company are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
and to do all that is connected therewith or may be conducive thereto, all to be interpreted in the broadest sense.
CHAPTER III
AUTHORISED CAPITAL; SHARES; REGISTER OF SHAREHOLDERS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER IV
ISSUANCE OF SHARES
 
 
 
 
 
 
The provisions above in this article 6.5 will not apply to Preference Shares issued pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER V
OWN SHARES; REDUCTION OF THE ISSUED CAPITAL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER VI
TRANSFER OF SHARES
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER VII
 
PLEDGING OF SHARES AND USUFRUCT ON SHARES
 
 
 
CHAPTER VIII
THE BOARD
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of the resignation, removal or death of the Group Chairman or the Group CEO prior to the end of their respective Initial Chairman Term or Initial CEO Term, the procedure under this article 14.5 shall apply mutatis mutandis, except that the recommendation of the Directors A or the Directors B, as applicable, shall be binding on the Nominations Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee and on the Board, who shall nominate such nominee for appointment to the Board and shall appoint such nominee as the Group Chairman or the Group CEO, as applicable, concurrently with his or her appointment by the General Meeting until the expiration of the Initial Chairman Term or the Initial CEO Term, as applicable. The particular rights, authorities and responsibilities of the Group Chairman and the Group CEO under these articles and the Board Rules will be
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the Initial Chairman Term and the Initial CEO Term, the Board shall constitute the following committees (the ""):
Board Committees
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Initial CEO Term, the Group CEO shall chair the Integration Committee and shall be a member of the Strategy Committee.
For the Initial Board Term, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee and the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee shall each be chaired by a Non-Executive Director A, and the Technology Committee shall be chaired by a Non-Executive Director B.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a seat on the Board is vacant or a Director is unable to perform his duties, the remaining Directors' or Director's duties, rights and abilities shall be unchanged from that which
 
existed prior to such vacancy or inability of a Director to perform duties, provided that if the seat for the Group CEO is vacant or the Group CEO is unable to perform his duties, the Group CEO's duties and responsibilities shall be temporarily fulfilled by the Non-Executive Directors or by a person to be designated for that purpose by the Non-Executive Directors. If all seats on the Board are vacant or all Directors or the sole Director, as the case may be, are unable to perform their duties, the management of the business and affairs of the Company shall be temporarily entrusted to one or more persons designated for that purpose by the General Meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER IX
FINANCIAL YEAR AND ANNUAL ACCOUNTS; PROFITS AND DISTRIBUTIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If, in a financial year, no profit is made or the profits are insufficient to allow the distribution provided for in the preceding sentence, the deficit shall be paid at the expense of the profits earned in following financial years or, if possible, at the expense of any freely distributable reserve of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER X
THE GENERAL MEETING
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The agenda shall furthermore contain other business presented for discussion by the Board or by Shareholders taking into account the provisions of these articles of association and announced with due observance of the provisions of article 27.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER XI
AMENDMENT OF THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION; CHANGE OF CORPORATE FORM; STATUTORY MERGER AND STATUTORY DEMERGER; DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B: Form of Holdco Board Rules
Linklaters LLP
World Trade Centre Amsterdam
Zuidplein 180
1077 XV Amsterdam
Telephone (+31) 20 799 6200
Facsimile (+31) 20 799 6300
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group Chairman will spend adequate time in secondary offices and facilitate close interaction and coordination through overlapping presence.
 
 
In case the Board decides to appoint a Company Secretary in accordance with section 14.6 of the Articles, the individual with the position of General Corporate Counsel will become the Company Secretary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the Initial CEO Term, corporate development/M&A, human resources, public relations and branding shall have their primary location in New York (it being understood that "" for purposes of these Board Rules shall mean where a predominant majority of workforce of the department and heads of the department will be located) and their secondary location in Frankfurt (it being understood that "" for purposes of these Board Rules shall mean where a material presence of corporate functions will be located to provide for adequate overlap phases and global presence).
primary location
secondary location
The Group CEO will spend adequate time in secondary offices and facilitate close interaction and coordination through overlapping presence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group CFO will spend adequate time in secondary offices and facilitate close interaction and coordination through overlapping presence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
may only be adopted by a resolution passed with the vote in favour of more than sixty-six percent (66%) of the total Board seats.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee shall, in particular, be responsible to submit proposals to the Board as regards the compensation of the members of the Board (with the exception of the Group CEO) for ultimate decision by the Board in line with the policy set by the General Meeting. As regards the compensation of the Group CEO, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee submits a proposal to the Board upon which the Board decides.
As regards the compensation of the members of the Global Executive Committee who are not members of the Board, the Group CEO following consultation with the Group Chairman, shall be responsible to make proposals to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee for its decisions on the relevant compensations.
 
The Strategy Committee is competent to submit proposals to the Board as regards principal Group/long-term strategy (including transformational M&A/M&A strategy) and the strategic business plan.
 
 
The Integration Committee considers the integration policy and parameters developed by the Group CEO and  where necessary  is competent to submit proposals to the Board. Certain members of the Global Executive Committee have an attendance right at the meetings of the Integration Committee, without having the right to vote.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Director must at all times comply with the [TopCo] Group policies and procedures and all applicable statutory provisions and regulations with respect to the ownership of and transactions in securities other than securities issued by the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the Initial Chairman Term and the Initial CEO Term these Board Rules may be amended and supplemented by the Board from time to time by a resolution adopted with a majority of 66% (sixty-six percent) of the total Board seats. Thereafter, these Board Rules may be amended and supplemented by the Board from time to time by a resolution adopted with a simple majority of the total Board seats. In case a change of the Board Rules at the same time would constitute a change of the Articles, or would conflict with the Articles, the change shall become effective only upon a change of the Articles.
 
 
"" means the articles of association of the Company, as amended and restated from time to time;
Articles
"" means the full Board of Directors of the Company;
Board
"" means each committee of the Board as referred to in clause 12 of these Board Rules which may consist of, among others, the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee, the Nomination, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, the Strategy Committee, the Integration Committee and the Technology Committee;
Board Committees
"" means these rules, as they may be amended from time to time;
Board Rules
"" means [];
Closing Date
insert date
"" means [TopCo] N.V.;
Company
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in clause 10.1;
Conflict of Interest
"" means each member of the Board (unless the contrary is apparent, this shall include each Executive Director and each Non-Executive Director);"" means a member of the Board who holds an executive office with the Company and who is particularly responsible for the daily affairs of the Company, as referred to in the Articles;
Director
Executive Director
"" means a person's spouse, parents, children and siblings, whether by blood, marriage or adoption, or anyone residing in such person's home;
Family Member
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in clause 2.1;
FPI Status
"" means the general meeting of shareholders of the Company;
General Meeting
"" means the global executive committee installed by the Group CEO;
Global Executive Committee
"" means the Executive Director appointed as group chief executive officer by the Board in accordance with Article 16.1 of the Articles and as further referred to in these Board Rules;
Group CEO
"" means the Director appointed as chairman by the Board in accordance with Article 15.1 of the Articles and as further referred to in these Board Rules;
Group Chairman
"" means a Non-Executive Director appointed as vice-chairman by the Board in accordance with Article 15.1 of the Articles and as further referred to in these Board Rules;
Group Vice-Chairman
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in clause 2.2;
Initial Board Term
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in clause 5.1;
Initial CEO Term
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in clause 4.1;
Initial Chairman Term
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in clause 7.3;
key location
 
"" means a member of the Board who does not hold executive office with the Company and who is particularly responsible for the supervision on the policy of the Executive Director and the general affairs of the Company and who provides general advice to the Executive Director, as referred to in the Articles;
Non-Executive Director
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in clause 5.4;
primary location
"" means the rules for the Global Executive Committee as amended and restated from time to time;
Rules for the Global Executive Committee
"" has the meaning attributed thereto in clause 5.4;
secondary location
"" means any of the shareholders of the Company; and
Shareholders
"" means the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.
[TopCo] Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C: Form of Rules of the Global Executive Committee
Linklaters LLP
World Trade Centre Amsterdam
Zuidplein 180
1077 XV Amsterdam
Telephone (+31) 20 799 6200
Facsimile (+31) 20 799 6300
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group General Counsel will report to the Group CEO and the Board. He shall closely cooperate with the General Corporate Counsel.
 
 
To the extent it does not fall into the competencies of the Board, the Group Chairman and/or the Group CEO, the Global Executive Committee has, in particular, the following competencies and responsibilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Divisional Head is responsible for the specific day-to-day business of his/her division and, in particular, the relevant divisional budgets, profit-and-loss statements, resources and business plans.
 
 
 
 
 
The members of the Global Executive Committee will in the process of their deliberations and decisions strive to take their decisions unanimously. In case such unanimity cannot be reached among the members of the Global Executive Committee, the Group CEO shall decide the matter in which unanimity could not be reached among the members of the Global Executive Committee. Any member of the Global Executive Committee whose responsibility  e.g. in his function as a head of a global division or in his function as Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel  is affected by such decision of the Group CEO, has the right to bring the matter to the attention of the Board for further discussion or decision as the Board may deem necessary.
 
These Rules for the Global Executive Committee shall expire on the date that is four (4) years after [] or, if earlier, on the date when all of the Initial Terms of the Global Executive Committee members have expired. Prior to or upon expiration of these Rules, the Board shall consider whether it is appropriate to adopt rules to be in effect from and after expiration of the Initial Term, and the contents thereof.
the Closing Date
 
The meaning of certain capitalised terms used in these Rules for the Global Executive Committee are set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Q&A: Niederauer Talks About the Deal
By AARON LUCCHETTI
NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Duncan Niederauer faces a long battle to close the exchange's historic Deutsche Brse AG transaction, which he emphasized isn't a takeover despite the fact that the German exchange operator will get 60% of the new company and 10 of the 17 board members.
The 51-year-old executive took a few minutes in his office Tuesday to answer questions about the yet-to-be named new company and respond to the possibility that CME Group Inc. might launch a hostile bid for his exchange.
NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer speaks to the media following the announcement that the parent company of the New York Stock Exchange will merge with the Germany's Deutsche Boerse to form the world's largest exchange for stocks and derivatives.
Why Deutsche Brse?
WSJ:
I've felt this was the best deal for us for a while, and the best deal for them. We were both very patient. If you think about the businesses, the complementary strengths, it's pretty obvious. They have the post-trade portfolio. We have listings. We both have derivatives. And in the middle of all that, we have this growing technology-services business. There's no other deal that would have given us close to that combination.
Mr. Niederauer:
How concerned are you about a counterbid from CME Group?
WSJ:
You saw the same rumors. We have a signed deal with a great partner. It's a pretty compelling strategy. I can't respond until there's something official.
Mr. Niederauer:
Have you heard from CME at all?
WSJ:
No.
Mr. Niederauer:
What is your thinking on what the name of the company should be?
WSJ:
As I've said since the beginning, you should always keep these things simple. Yet the name, and really any branding decision, is the most emotional decision anyone makes. From the beginning, there were three choices.
Mr. Niederauer:
Put the bigger company's moniker's first.
Put the better brand first.
Or go with the third route. If it's a global deal, why would you take either, just come up with an umbrella name? The United Technologies strategy. The Yum Brands strategy. And make sure you brand your sub-brands. The name is going to be a very lengthy discussion. Everybody's prideful. Brands in this industry are pseudo national treasures or icons. We don't have a name. Its going to be an interesting discussion.
After Sen. Schumer weighed in criticizing the DB NYSE name, is that off the table?
WSJ:
DB NYSE is off the table. That path is closed. But we have not made a decision.
Mr. Niederauer:
What have you said to Sen. Schumer and other politicians you've talked to about this deal?
WSJ:
We have been focused on what this isn't. It isn't a takeover. Of course [Deutsche Brse] gets more of the equity because they have a larger market cap. The board will be balanced, but in line with the ownership structure. Don't be too focused on the name. And we said, remember the shareholder base is certainly a majority U.S. That's not a huge statement. Both companies have large institutional shareholder bases. They're not 100% owned by Germans and we're not 100% owned by Americans.
Mr. Niederauer:
NYSE was concerned about CME's dominance over U.S. futures when it bought its two biggest competitors. What's different in Europe, where your new company will control a CME-like portion of the European futures market?
WSJ:
We know we are going to have an antitrust hurdle. I remember saying [during the CME's] Nymex [acquisition], I thought letting a competitor roll up so much of the futures business seemed odd to me. But the [Justice Department] said there was no product overlap. And in the one place where there was, a part of the commodities business, the CME was asked to dispose of that. If I were a customer, I'd want us to put these two exchanges together. The idea of connectivity and savings, I think they'll encourage us. But there are big hurdles to clear here.
Mr. Niederauer:
Who will oversee the companies' options business?
WSJ:
Our expectation going in will be [Deutsche Brse's] Andreas Preuss, but [NYSE Euronext operating chief] Larry [Leibowitz] will also be involved. I'd say it would be largely Andreas.
Mr. Niederauer:
How is the board going to look?
WSJ:
If we stick to 17, its going to be a very international board, probably five or six Americans, five or six Germans and five or six people from other jurisdictions.
Mr. Niederauer:
Have you been brushing up on your German?
WSJ:
No. But I'm running a global company. I've been trying to get a little better at some of these other languages. When I introduced [new deputy CEO at NYSE Euronext]
Mr. Niederauer:
Dominique Cerutti, I did it in French. It wasn't very good. I must admit it's humbling to look to a new chairman [in Deutsche Brse's Reto Francioni] that speaks three or four languages. I'm only fluent in one. I can pretend I speak Japanese, but it's grade-school level maybe. As Americans, it behooves us to learn pieces of other languages. I thought it sent a positive message when I muddled through to introduce Dominique in French.


