FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20110114163338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dividend equivalents on restricted stock units
The Board of Directors and the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (the "HR&CC") of NYSE Euronext (the "Company") have determined that holders of restricted stock units ("RSUs"), including holders of unvested RSUs, should be eligible to receive dividend equivalents on their RSUs that correspond to the cash dividends our shareholders receive. On or shortly after January 14, 2011, holders of RSUs received dividend equivalents paid in cash in respect of the cash dividends that we paid on December 31, 2010. Holders of RSUs also will receive dividend equivalents paid in cash in respect of any cash dividends paid in 2011 and will be eligible to receive dividend equivalents, paid in cash or shares of the Company's common stock, in respect of any cash dividends paid after 2011.
To provide for such dividend equivalents, the Company has amended its Omnibus Incentive Plan and 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (together, the "Plans") and the agreements that govern the outstanding RSUs granted under the Plans. The Plans, as amended, authorize the HR&CC to determine that holders of certain stock-based awards, including RSUs, granted under the Plans are entitled to receive, currently or on a deferred basis, dividend equivalents on such awards, including unvested awards. The payment of dividend equivalents was previously limited to vested awards. The dividend equivalents may be paid in cash or shares of the Company's common stock and, if paid in shares, will count against the maximum number of shares that may be issued under the Plans. The RSU agreements, as amended, provide for the payment of dividend equivalents on the terms described in the first paragraph above.
The Company will determine, in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, whether to provide any dividend equivalents in respect of any cash dividends that are paid after 2011 and, if so, whether they will be paid in cash on a current basis or in shares on a deferred basis. Dividend equivalents that are paid in shares generally will remain subject to forfeiture until the shares are issued at the same time as the shares covered by the RSUs are issued.
The Board of Directors and the HR&CC believe that these amendments to the Plans and the RSU agreements will enhance the Company's ability to attract and retain talented executives and employees and further align their interests with those of shareholders by providing them with dividend equivalent rights that are analogous to the shareholders' dividend rights.
Letter concerning supermajority voting requirement
On September 27, 2010, the Company received a letter from the Chairman's Committee of the Euronext College of Regulators concerning the provisions of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws that currently are under a supermajority voting requirement. The letter is attached as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
International Regulation
Mr. Jan-Michiel Hessels
NYSE Euronext
Postbus 19163
1000 GD Amsterdam
The Netherlands
 
Dear Mr. Hessels:
In reference to the shareholder proposal to move to a universal simple majority voting structure, the Euronext College of Regulators ("the College") has reached a decision concerning the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and the Bylaws which are currently under a supermajority voting requirement.
The College encourages companies to organize themselves on the basis of sound corporate governance principles and acknowledges the importance of NYSE Euronext applying such principles. Considering the origin of NYSE Euronext and the particular environment in which regulated markets have to operate, in particular in Europe, the College also needs to ensure that the key rationale for the supermajority voting requirements, as provided at the time of the merger between the two companies, is respected and maintained.
As stated in our letter of April 7th 2010, one of the key principles behind the approval of the merger between NYSE and Euronext was the balance of representation between American and European representatives on the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext.
The fact that this balanced composition can only be amended through an 80% majority of the outstanding shares provides the College with assurance that this key principle will remain.
Furthermore, the College is concerned to ensure: (i) the ongoing regulatory comfort concerning the governance of NYSE Euronext, and ultimately (ii) the safeguarding of fair and orderly market principles in the regulated markets of the five European jurisdictions.
However, as also noted in the letter of April 7th 2010, the College acknowledges that some provisions currently protected by the 80% requirement are not necessarily key to maintaining the above mentioned principles. After due consideration, the College is therefore minded not to oppose an amendment resulting in a simple majority for the following provisions:
For the Certificate of Incorporation:
 
 
 
For the Bylaws:
 
The College holds a strong view that any change to the remaining provisions referred to in your June 4th 2010 memo may constitute a breach of the original regulatory requirements for the merger of NYSE and Euronext.
The College does not object to you referring to this letter in any discussions you may have with shareholders or external third parties to explain the College's perspective on this issue. In the meantime we will send a copy of this letter to the Stichting NYSE Euronext, and to the SEC.
 
For and on behalf of the Chairman's Committee of the Euronext College of Regulators
Jean-Paul Servais, Chairman, The Banking, Finance and Insurance Commission, Belgium
Hans Hoogervorst, Chairman, The Authority for the Financial Markets, the Netherlands
Jean-Pierre Jouyet, Chairman, the Autorit des Marchs Financiers, France
Carlos Tavares, Chairman, The Comissao do Mercado de Valores Mobiliarios, Portugal
Alexander Justham, Director of Markets, The Financial Services Authority, the UK
:
CC
Mary Schapiro, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Jacques de Larosire, Stichting NYSE Euronext


