FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20110428160118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
On April 28, 2011, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing its results of operations for, and its financial condition as of the end of, the first quarter 2011.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Financial and Operating Highlights
1, 2
 
NEW YORK  April 28, 2011  NYSE Euronext (NYX) today reported net income of $155 million, or $0.59 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2011, compared to net income of $130 million, or $0.50 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2010. Results for the first quarter of 2011 and 2010 include $21 million and $13 million, respectively, of pre-tax merger expenses and exit costs. Merger expenses and exit costs in the first quarter of 2011 included $15 million related to the proposed merger with Deutsche Boerse. Excluding the impact of these items, net income in the first quarter of 2011 was $177 million, or $0.68 per diluted share, compared to $140 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010.
"These solid results reflect growing strength and momentum across our businesses and validate our long-term strategy to focus on diversifying and expanding our global footprint as the leading global multi-asset exchange," said Duncan L. Niederauer, CEO, NYSE Euronext. "Our innovative NYSE Liffe U.S. launch of interest rate products is off to a strong start, bolstered by the unique benefits of New York Portfolio Clearing. Our listings franchise continues to expand through transfers from Nasdaq, and we were the global leader in IPOs in the first quarter. Lastly, our technology services pipeline continues to build and will accelerate toward our stated revenue goals for 2011."
"We are confident that our strong standalone growth prospects will be enhanced and accelerated by the proposed merger with Deutsche Boerse, through significant efficiency gains, earnings growth and multiple expansion for our shareholders. I look forward to articulating the power of the proposed combination at our annual stockholder meeting later today in New York."
 
The table below summarizes the financial results
1
for the first quarter of 2011:
 
 
Michael S. Geltzeiler, Group Executive Vice President and CFO, NYSE Euronext commented, "Our first quarter results represent a return to the growth trajectory established for NYSE Euronext before the second half of 2010, and underscores the power of the inherent leverage in our model both year-over-year and sequentially. Net revenue growth of 5% year-over-year, accompanied by a 3% decrease in expenses drove a 21% increase in operating income, a 26% increase in diluted earnings per share and incremental margins of over 130%. We are continuing our multi-year cost containment initiative which has reduced our cost base by over $600 million since the merger with Euronext in 2007, on a constant dollar, constant portfolio basis. Higher EBITDA and lower capital expenditures have translated into strong free cash flow which, supported by an A' rated balance sheet, creates significant organic growth opportunities and strongly positions us to return capital to shareholders."
FIRST QUARTER 2011 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
Total revenues, less transaction-based expenses, which include Section 31 fees, liquidity payments and routing and clearing fees (net revenue), was $679 million in the first quarter of 2011, up $34 million, or 5% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and was up 11% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. The $34 million increase in net revenue compared to the first quarter of 2010, which included a $2 million positive impact from currency fluctuations, was primarily driven by a $22 million increase in net trading revenues, with increases across all trading venues as well as a $12 million increase in non-trading revenue driven by increases in market data, listings and technology services fees. The $66 million, or 11% increase in net revenue compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 was driven by higher net trading revenues across all venues, principally European derivatives and European cash which experienced trading ADV increases of 24% and 29%, respectively.
Other operating expenses, which exclude merger expenses and exit costs, were $415 million in the first quarter of 2011, down $12 million, or 3% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and decreased 2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. The $12 million decrease in fixed costs compared to the first quarter of 2010, which included a $2 million negative impact for foreign currency fluctuations, was primarily driven by an $11 million decrease in compensation costs and a $16 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset by higher professional services fees and depreciation and amortization.
For the full-year 2011, fixed operating expenses are expected to be less than $1,650 million on a constant dollar, constant portfolio basis, compared to full-year 2010 expenses of $1,678 million.
 
Operating income, excluding merger expenses and exit costs, was $264 million, up $46 million, or 21% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and increased $76 million, or 40% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA, which excludes merger expenses and exit costs, was $334 million, up $50 million, or 18% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and increased $66 million, or 25% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 49% in the first quarter of 2011, compared to 44% in the first quarter of 2010.
Non-operating income for the first quarter of 2011 includes the impact of the investment in New York Portfolio Clearing (loss/income from associates) and NYSE Liffe U.S. (net loss/income attributable to non-controlling interest) initiatives. Both New York Portfolio Clearing and NYSE Liffe U.S. are currently in a loss position, however, the financial results of the two initiatives are expected to improve with the launch of interest rate futures on NYSE Liffe U.S. which are cleared through New York Portfolio Clearing.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2011 was approximately 26%. For the full-year 2011, the effective tax rate is expected to be 26%.
The weighted average diluted shares outstanding in the first quarter of 2011 was 262 million, up from 261 million shares in the first quarter of 2010. For the full-year 2011, the weighted average diluted shares outstanding is expected to be 263 million. With the sale of the former American Stock Exchange headquarters building, approximately 0.3 million shares will be issued in the second quarter of 2011.
At March 31, 2011, total debt of $2.4 billion was $83 million below December 31, 2010 levels and consisted of $2.2 billion in long-term debt and $0.2 billion in short-term debt. Cash, cash equivalents, investments and other securities (including $88 million related to Section 31 fees collected from market participants and due to the SEC) was $0.4 billion and net debt was $2.0 billion.
The ratio of debt-to-EBITDA in the first quarter of 2011 declined to 1.8 times, the lowest level since the establishment of NYSE Euronext in April 2007, from 2.2 times in the fourth quarter of 2010. The decrease in the debt-to-EBITDA ratio reflects the strong growth in adjusted EBITDA, lower capital expenditures and continued deleveraging relative to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Total capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2011 were $36 million compared to $92 million in the first quarter of 2010. For the full-year 2011 total capital expenditures are expected to be less than $200 million.
Headcount as of March 31, 2011 was 3,028 (including 75 headcount from the closing of APX, Inc. and the creation of NYSE Blue
TM
), up 2% from December 31, 2010, but down 6% from March 31, 2010.
The Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.30 per share for the second quarter of 2011. The second quarter 2011 dividend is payable June 30, 2011 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on June 16, 2011. The anticipated ex-date will be June 14, 2011.
FIRST QUARTER 2011 SEGMENT RESULTS
Below is a summary of business segment results:
 
 
 
DERIVATIVES
Derivatives net revenue of $236 million in the first quarter of 2011 increased $12 million, or 5% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and increased $48 million, or 26% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. The $12 million increase in net revenue compared to the first quarter of 2010 was driven by a $9 million increase in European derivatives net trading revenue on a 4% increase in average net revenue capture per contract on stable average daily volume ("ADV") (excluding Bclear) and a $4 million increase in net U.S. equity options trading net revenue driven by a 19% increase in ADV, partially offset by a 9% decline in average net capture per contract. The $48 million increase in net revenue compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 was driven by strong increases in derivatives trading volumes, both in Europe and the U.S. European derivatives trading volumes increased 34% (excluding Bclear) with the average net revenue capture per contract increasing 3% and U.S. equity options trading volumes increased 19% with the average net revenue capture per contract decreasing 2%.
 
 
 
CASH TRADING AND LISTINGS
Cash Trading and Listings net revenue of $328 million in the first quarter of 2011 increased $16 million, or 5% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and increased $18 million, or 6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. The $16 million increase in net revenue compared to the first quarter of 2010 was primarily driven by a 32% increase in European cash ADV, a 15% increase in the U.S. cash average net revenue per 100 shares handled and higher listing revenue. The $18 million increase in net revenue compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 was primarily driven by a 29% increase in European cash ADV, partially offset by lower average net revenue per transaction on higher volume and a 3% increase in U.S. cash ADV accompanied by a 14% increase in the average net revenue per 100 shares handled.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INFORMATION SERVICES AND TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS
Information Services and Technology Solutions revenue was $116 million in the first quarter of 2011, an increase of $6 million, or 5% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and a $2 million, or 2% increase compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. The $6 million increase in revenue compared to the first quarter of 2010 was primarily driven by an increase in SFTI fees resulting from expansion in the U.S. as well as Europe. The first quarter is a seasonally slow period for technology sales and as the pipeline of technology sales continues to build, NYSE Technologies is on-track to achieve total segment revenue growth of greater than 15% in 2011 compared to 2010. The $2 million increase compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 was primarily driven by an increase in SFTI and European market data fees.
 
 
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the Company's financial performance.
Virtual Shareholder Meeting : April 28, 2011 at 8:00 a.m. (NY/EDT)/2:00 p.m. (Paris/CET)
A live video webcast of the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be available directly through or through the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website, . Those wishing to listen to the live 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders via telephone should dial-in at least ten minutes before the call begins. A replay of the video webcast will be available at approximately 10:00 a.m. (NY/EDT) directly through or through the Investor Relations section of NYSE Euronext's website, .
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/nyx
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/nyx
http://www.nyseeuronext.com/ir
Live Dial-in Information:
: 800.860.2442
United States
: 412.858.4600
International
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement NYSE Euronext's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and to better reflect period-over-period comparisons, NYSE Euronext uses non-GAAP financial measures of performance, financial position, or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of GAAP financial results, but are provided to (i) present the effects of certain merger expenses, exit costs and other special items, and (ii) improve overall understanding of NYSE Euronext's current
 
financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, NYSE Euronext believes the non-GAAP financial results provide useful information to both management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to financial condition and operating results. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing financial results and evaluating financial performance. The non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented are based upon information and assumptions available as of the date of this release.
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is a leading global operator of financial markets and provider of innovative trading technologies. The company's exchanges in Europe and the United States trade equities, futures, options, fixed-income and exchange-traded products. With approximately 8,000 listed issues (excluding European Structured Products), NYSE Euronext's equities markets  the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext, NYSE Amex, NYSE Alternext and NYSE Arca  represent one-third of the world's equities trading, the most liquidity of any global exchange group. NYSE Euronext also operates NYSE Liffe, one of the leading European derivatives businesses and the world's second-largest derivatives business by value of trading. The company offers comprehensive commercial technology, connectivity and market data products and services through NYSE Technologies. NYSE Euronext is in the S&P 500 index, and is the only exchange operator in the Fortune 500. For more information, please visit: http://www.nyx.com.
Safe Harbor Statement
NYSE Euronext is party to a proposed business combination transaction with Deutsche Boerse AG. In connection with the proposed business combination transaction, Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding N.V. ("Holding"), a newly formed holding company, has filed a Registration Statement on Form F-4 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that includes (1) a draft proxy statement of NYSE Euronext that will also constitute a prospectus for Holding and (2) a draft offering prospectus of Holding to be used in connection with Holding's offer to acquire Deutsche Boerse AG shares held by U.S. holders. When finalized, NYSE Euronext will mail the proxy statement/prospectus to its stockholders in connection with the vote to approve the merger of NYSE Euronext and a wholly owned subsidiary of Holding, and Holding will mail the offering prospectus to Deutsche Boerse AG shareholders in the United States in connection with Holding's offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Deutsche Boerse AG. NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG also expect that Holding will file an offer document with the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt fuer Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht) ("BaFin").
Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus and the offer document regarding the proposed business combination transaction if and when they become available because they will contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus (if and when it becomes available) and other related documents filed by NYSE Euronext and Holding with the SEC on the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov. The proxy statement/prospectus (if and when it becomes available) and other documents relating thereto may also be obtained for free by accessing NYSE Euronext's Web site at www.nyse.com and Deutsche Boerse AG's Web site at www.deutsche-boerse.com. The offer document will be made available at Holding's Web site at www.global-exchange-operator.com following clearance by the BaFin.
This document is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell shares of Holding, Deutsche Boerse AG or NYSE Euronext. The final terms and further provisions regarding the public offer will be disclosed in the offer document after the publication has been approved by the BaFin and in documents that will be filed with the SEC. Holding reserves the right to deviate in the final terms of the public offer from the basic information described herein. Investors and holders of NYSE Euronext shares and Deutsche Boerse AG shares are strongly encouraged to read the offer document and all documents in connection with the public offer as soon as they are published, since they will contain important information.
No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable European regulations. Subject to certain exceptions to be approved by the relevant regulators or certain facts to be ascertained, the public offer will not be made directly or indirectly, in or into any jurisdiction where to do so would constitute a violation of the laws of such jurisdiction, or by use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality (including without limitation, facsimile transmission, telephone and the internet) of interstate or foreign commerce, or any facility of a national securities exchange, of any such jurisdiction.
This announcement and related materials do not constitute in France an offer for ordinary shares in Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding N.V. The relevant final terms of the proposed business combination transaction will be disclosed in the information documents reviewed by the competent European market authorities.
 
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse AG, Holding and their respective directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NYSE Euronext stockholders in respect of the proposed business combination transaction. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC if and when they become available.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document includes forward-looking statements about NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse AG, Holding, the enlarged group and other persons, which may include statements about the proposed business combination, the likelihood that such transaction could be consummated, the effects of any transaction on the businesses of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Boerse AG, and other statements that are not historical facts. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and the development of the industries in which NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG operate may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this document. Any forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this document. Except as required by applicable law, none of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse AG or Holding undertakes any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
CONTACT: Media
+31.20.550.4488 (Amsterdam)
+32.2.509.1392 (Brussels)
+351.217.900.029 (Lisbon)
+44.20.7379.2789 (London)
+1.212.656.2140 (New York)
+33.1.49.27.11.33 (Paris)
CONTACT: Investor Relations
+1.212.656.5700 (New York)
 
 
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
 
N/M = Not meaningful
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
 
 
We use non-GAAP financial measures of operating performance. Non-GAAP measures do not replace and are not superior to the presentation of our GAAP financial results but are provided to improve overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


