FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20110617161937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On June 14, 2011, certain subsidiaries of NYSE Euronext, specifically, Euronext Paris S.A., Euronext Amsterdam N.V., Euronext Brussels S.A./N.V., Euronext Lisbon  Sociedade Gestora de Mercados Regulamentados, S.A. and LIFFE Administration & Management (collectively, the ""), agreed with Banque Centrale de Compensation S.A. and LCH.Clearnet Group Limited (together, the "") to extend the termination of their mutual obligations under the Amended and Restated Clearing Agreement, dated October 31, 2003, as amended (the ""), until June 2013 for derivatives and December 2013 for cash.
NYSE Euronext Parties
LCH.
Clearnet Parties
Clearing Agreement
Under the terms of the Clearing Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.4 to NYSE Euronext's Annual Report on Form 10-K, the LCH.Clearnet Parties provide clearing services for the markets operated by the NYSE Euronext Parties. The Clearing Agreement provides for an initial term and allows any party to deliver a notice of termination following such initial term within the notice period set forth in the Clearing Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Clearing Agreement and the termination notice delivered by NYSE Euronext in May 2010, the Clearing Agreement was set to terminate on November 7, 2012. The NYSE Euronext Parties and the LCH.Clearnet Parties are the only parties to the Clearing Agreement, and no early termination penalties will be incurred by any of the NYSE Euronext Parties in connection with the termination.
Other than in respect of the Clearing Agreement, NYSE Euronext and its affiliates' material relationships with the LCH.Clearnet Parties include NYSE Euronext's ownership of 9.1% of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited's outstanding share capital as of March 31, 2011 and the right to appoint one member to its board of directors. In addition, NYSE Euronext's NYSE Liffe London Market outsources certain clearing guarantee arrangements and related risk functions to LCH.Clearnet Limited, an affiliate of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited.
A copy of the press release announcing the extension is attached as exhibit 99.1 to this report.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon, London, New York, Paris  Thursday 16 June 2011  NYSE Euronext today announced that LCH.Clearnet has agreed to extend the arrangements under which LCH.Clearnet S.A. provides clearing services to the European Securities and Continental European Derivatives Markets of NYSE Euronext.
Termination of these arrangements was scheduled to occur in November 2012, following the notice given by NYSE Euronext in May 2010. The agreed extension means that the current clearing arrangements will continue to June 2013 for Derivatives and December 2013 for Cash. There are no changes to the contractual arrangements in place between NYSE Liffe Clearing and LCH.Clearnet Ltd, in respect of NYSE Euronext Derivatives in London.
Duncan Niederauer, Chief Executive Officer of NYSE Euronext said: "In the current dynamic environment, where we are finalising our planned business combination with Deutsche Boerse and LCH.Clearnet Group is considering its own strategic options, this extension gives both parties the time needed for these strategies to crystallise, while providing operational stability and continued service to our customers in the meantime."
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is a leading global operator of financial markets and provider of innovative trading technologies. The company's exchanges in Europe and the United States trade equities, futures, options, fixed-income and exchange-traded products. With approximately 8,000 listed issues (excluding European Structured Products), NYSE Euronext's equities markets  the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext, NYSE Amex, NYSE Alternext and NYSE Arca  represent one-third of the world's equities trading, the most liquidity of any global exchange group. NYSE Euronext also operates NYSE Liffe, one of the leading European derivatives businesses and the world's second-largest derivatives business by value of trading. The company offers comprehensive commercial technology, connectivity and market data products and services through NYSE Technologies. NYSE Euronext is in the S&P 500 index, and is the only exchange operator in the Fortune 500. For more information, please visit: .
http://www.nyx.com
Disclaimer and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NYSE Euronext's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are based on NYSE Euronext's current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause NYSE Euronext's results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: NYSE Euronext's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk and U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NYSE Euronext's reference document for 2010 ("document de rfrence") filed with the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers (Filed on April 19, 2011 under No. D.11-0333), 2010 Annual
Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NYSE Euronext that the projections will prove to be correct. This press release speaks only as of this date. NYSE Euronext disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
Safe Harbour Statement
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG, Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding N.V. ("Holding"), a newly formed holding company, has filed, and the SEC has declared effective on May 3, 2011, a Registration Statement on Form F-4 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that includes (1) a proxy statement of NYSE Euronext that will also constitute a prospectus for Holding and (2) an offering prospectus of Holding to be used in connection with Holding's offer to acquire Deutsche Boerse AG shares held by U.S. holders. Holding has also filed an offer document with the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt fuer Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht) ("BaFin"), which was approved by the BaFin for publication pursuant to the German Takeover Act (Wertpapiererwerbs-und bernahmegesetz), and was published on May 4, 2011.
Investors and security holders are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus, the offering prospectus, the offer document and published additional accompanying information in connection with the exchange offer regarding the proposed business combination transaction because they contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the definitive proxy statement/prospectus, the offering prospectus and other related documents filed by NYSE Euronext and Holding with the SEC on the SEC's website at . The definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other documents relating thereto may also be obtained for free by accessing NYSE Euronext's website at . The offer document and published additional accompanying information in connection with the exchange offer are available at Holding's website at . Holders of Deutsche Brse shares who have accepted the exchange offer have certain withdrawal rights which are set forth in the offer document.
www.sec.gov
www.nyse.com
www.global-exchange-operator.com
This document is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell shares of Holding, Deutsche Boerse AG or NYSE Euronext. The final terms and further provisions regarding the public offer are disclosed in the offer document that has been approved by the BaFin and in documents that have been filed with the SEC.
No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable European regulations. The exchange offer and the exchange offer document shall not constitute an issuance, publication or public advertising of an offer pursuant to laws and regulations of jurisdictions other than those of Germany, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. The relevant final terms of the proposed business combination transaction will be disclosed in the information documents reviewed by the competent European market authorities.
Subject to certain exceptions, in particular with respect to qualified institutional investors (tekikaku kikan toshika) as defined in Article 2 para. 3 (i) of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended), the exchange offer will not be made directly or indirectly in or into Japan, or by use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality (including without limitation, facsimile transmission, telephone and the internet) of interstate or foreign commerce or any facility of a national securities exchange of Japan. Accordingly, copies of this announcement or any accompanying documents may not be, directly or indirectly, mailed or otherwise distributed, forwarded or transmitted in, into or from Japan.
The shares of Holding have not been, and will not be, registered under the applicable securities laws of Japan. Accordingly, subject to certain exceptions, in particular with respect to qualified institutional investors (tekikaku kikan toshika) as defined in Article 2 para. 3 (i) of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended), the shares of Holding may not be offered or sold within Japan, or to or for the account or benefit of any person in Japan.
Participants in the Solicitation
NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse AG, Holding and their respective directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NYSE Euronext stockholders in respect of the proposed business combination transaction. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC.
Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes forward-looking statements about NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse AG, Holding, the enlarged group and other persons, which may include statements about the proposed business combination, the likelihood that such transaction could be consummated, the effects of any transaction on the businesses of NYSE Euronext or Deutsche Boerse AG, and other statements that are not historical facts. By
their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and the development of the industries in which NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG operate may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this document. Any forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this document. Except as required by applicable law, none of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse AG or Holding undertakes any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


