FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20121010161939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 10, 2012, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing trading volumes for the month of September 2012 and certain other metrics for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. The attached press release does not report or forecast NYSE Euronext's earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2012 and is not NYSE Euronext's earnings release for that quarter, which is expected to be issued on or around November 6, 2012. The attached press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Regulation S-K in view of the fact that it contains certain information that may be deemed to consist of information regarding NYSE Euronext's results of operations or financial condition for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
October 10, 2012  NYSE Euronext (NYX) today announced trading volumes for its global derivatives and cash equities exchanges for September 2012
1
. Trading volumes in September 2012 were down year-over-year, but rebounded across the four principal trading venues from lower levels recorded in August 2012.
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivatives Trading
European Derivatives
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Derivatives
 
 
 
 
Cash Trading
European Cash
 
 
 
 
U.S. Cash
 
 
 
 
Exchange Traded Funds
 
 
 
Other Metrics
 
 
 
Please for the Monthly Transaction Activity Data Table.
click here
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is a leading global operator of financial markets and provider of innovative trading technologies. The company's exchanges in Europe and the United States trade equities, futures, options, fixed-income and exchange-traded products. With approximately 8,000 listed issues (excluding European Structured Products), NYSE Euronext's equities markets - the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext, NYSE MKT, NYSE Alternext and NYSE Arca - represent one-third of the world's equities trading, the most liquidity of any global exchange group. NYSE Euronext also operates NYSE Liffe, one of the leading European derivatives businesses and the world's second-largest derivatives business by value of trading. The company offers comprehensive commercial technology, connectivity and market data products and services through NYSE Technologies. NYSE Euronext is in the S&P 500 index. For more information, please visit: .
http://www.nyx.com
Disclaimer and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NYSE Euronext's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are based on NYSE Euronext's current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause NYSE Euronext's results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: NYSE Euronext's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic,
political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk and U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NYSE Euronext's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the French Autorit des Marchs Financiers. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NYSE Euronext that the projections will prove to be correct. This press release speaks only as of this date. NYSE Euronext disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
 
 
Source: NYSE Euronext, Options Clearing Corporation and Consolidated Tape as reported for equity securities.
All trading activity is single-counted, except European cash trading which is double counted to include both buys and sells.


