FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20120202153335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.02 TERMINATION OF A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On February 2, 2012, NYSE Euronext, a Delaware corporation, Deutsche Brse AG, an organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Deutsche Brse"), Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding N.V., a organized under the laws of the Netherlands ("Holdco"), and Pomme Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco (together, the "Parties") entered into a letter agreement (the "Termination Agreement"), dated February 2, 2012. Pursuant to the Termination Agreement, the Parties agreed to terminate the Business Combination Agreement, which had been entered into by the Parties as of February 15, 2011 (as amended as of May 2, 2011 and June 16, 2011, the "Business Combination Agreement"), and pursuant to which NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse had agreed to combine their respective businesses and become subsidiaries of Holdco (the "Business Combination").
Aktiengesellschaft
naamloze vennootschap
The Parties agreed to terminate the Business Combination Agreement following the European Commission's decision to prohibit the Business Combination on grounds that it is incompatible with the internal market and the functioning of the EEA Agreement. Receipt of clearance for the Business Combination pursuant to Council Regulation (EC) 139/2004 of the European Community was required in order to complete the Business Combination.
The Termination Agreement also contains certain joint publicity, non-disparagement and confidentiality obligations of the Parties following termination of the Business Combination Agreement.
A copy of the Termination Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
On February 1, 2012, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing the decision of the European Commission. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
February 2, 2012
Deutsche Brse AG
Mergenthalerallee 61
65760 Eschborn
Germany
Dear Sirs:
Reference is made to the Business Combination Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2011, as amended as of May 2, 2011 and June 16, 2011 (as it may be further amended from time to time, the "") by and among NYSE Euronext, a Delaware corporation (""), Deutsche Brse AG, an organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany (""), Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding N.V., a organized under the laws of the Netherlands (""), and Pomme Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco ("") (together, the ""). Capitalized terms used in this letter agreement (the "") but not otherwise defined have the meanings given to them in the BCA.
BCA
NYSE Euronext
Aktiengesellschaft
Deutsche Brse
naamloze vennootschap
Holdco
Merger Sub
Parties
Letter Agreement
The European Commission has rendered a decision pursuant to Council Regulation (EC) 139/2004 of the European Community prohibiting the Merger, the Offer or other transactions contemplated by the BCA (together the "), on February 1, 2012 (the ""). Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext have received the EC Decision on February 2, 2012 (the ""):
Combination
EC Decision
EC Decision Date
The Parties hereby agree pursuant to Sec. 9.1 of the BCA that, except for the provisions which expressly survive termination as set forth in Section 10.1 of the BCA, the BCA is terminated pursuant to Section 9.1 of the BCA with effect as of the EC Decision Date (such effective date the "") and shall be of no further force or effect (such termination pursuant to Section 9.1, "").
Termination Date
Termination
Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext shall use their reasonable best efforts to agree with each other on a communication message and wording, which the Parties shall use in all their respective communications in connection with the Termination. The Parties shall ensure that any general notices, releases, statements or communications by any Party to the general public or the press relating to the reasons for or any of the events or circumstances surrounding the termination of the Combination shall be consistent with such agreed message and wording, unless otherwise required by applicable Law, in which case each Party shall use its reasonable best efforts to agree with each other before issuing such communication or statement.
Publicity.
Each of the Parties shall not, directly or indirectly (through its Subsidiaries, affiliates, Representatives or otherwise), whether in writing or orally, for a period of 12 months from the Termination Date, publicly make any statement related to the BCA, the Combination or this Letter Agreement, including the reasons for or any of the events or circumstances surrounding the termination of the Combination, that could reasonably be understood as disparaging the business or conduct of any other Party or such other Party's affiliates or its directors, officers or employees thereof in their capacity as such or as intended to harm the business or reputation of any other Party or such other Party's affiliates; , , that the foregoing (i) shall not be deemed to prevent or impair any person covered thereby from testifying in any legal or administrative proceeding, responding to inquiries or requests for information by any regulator or auditor, or taking any other action that is required by law, or to prevent the Parties from making statements in any pleadings, court papers or in open court in any action brought by one of the Parties or by any other person and (ii) shall not restrict the ability of the Parties to engage in legitimate competition with each other.
Non-disparagement.
provided
however
The Parties agree that the Confidentiality Agreement dated September 22, 2008, between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse (the "") shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms notwithstanding the Termination, except that the Parties agree that (i) the two-year period provided for in the penultimate paragraph of the Confidentiality Agreement shall commence on the Termination Date and (ii) the first sentence of the paragraph beginning on page 3 of the Confidentiality Agreement and continuing onto page 4 of the Confidentiality Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and read as follows:
Confidentiality.
Confidentiality Agreement
"At the request of the other party, each party and its representatives shall promptly return to the other party, all written (or electronic) Evaluation Material of the other party and any other written material containing or reflecting any information in the other party's Evaluation Material (whether prepared by the other party, its advisors, agents or otherwise); provided however, that if either party is considering or pursuing an appeal against the EC Decision, the legal department (including outside legal counsel) of such party shall not be required to comply with such request relating to Evaluation Material considered relevant by the respective party for considering or pursuing appeal proceedings against the EC decision until after the decision of a court of last resort on such appeal has become final and binding. Provided that, in lieu of returning Evaluation Material of the other party and any other written material containing or reflecting any information in the other party's Evaluation Material each party and its representatives may destroy such Evaluation Material and provide to the disclosing party a certificate in writing signed by an authorized officer supervising such destruction that all material required to be returned pursuant to this letter agreement has been destroyed, and will not retain any copies, extracts or other reproductions in whole or in part of such written (or electronic) material; provided, however, that the general counsel of the receiving party may retain one copy of such material which may be used as deemed necessary by either party to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including, for the avoidance of doubt, litigation relating to the Transaction against one or both of the parties."
 
The online data rooms that the Parties have maintained shall be shut down as soon as practicable following Termination, and the Parties shall instruct all applicable vendors accordingly.
The Parties shall cooperate to (i) dissolve and liquidate Holdco and Merger Sub in accordance with applicable Laws, (ii) dissolve and liquidate Stichting Alpha Beta Netherlands in accordance with applicable Laws and (iii) deactivate the Holdco website located at , in each case as soon as practicable and permitted by law. Expenses incurred in connection with this paragraph shall be shared equally between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse. Until such time as Holdco is dissolved or otherwise ceases to be owned by Stichting Alpha Beta Netherlands, Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext shall cooperate in preparing and filing all necessary notices, reports and other filings (and appropriate updates thereto) required to be made by Holdco ( an annual report on Form 20-F with respect to the 2011 fiscal year), to the extent relief from the requirement to make any such notices, reports or filings is not available.
Dissolution of Holdco.
www.global-exchange-operator.com
e.g.
This Letter Agreement, the Confidentiality Agreement, the agreement dated as of December 8, 2011 with regards to the new group name, and the provisions in the BCA that expressly survive the Termination of the BCA, constitute the entire agreement among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement.
Other than with respect to Section 10.8 of the BCA, Article X of the BCA is incorporated herein by reference and shall apply to this Letter Agreement as if set forth herein, and any references to "the Agreement" or "this Agreement" in such Article X shall be deemed, for purposes of this Letter Agreement, to constitute references to this Letter Agreement.
Miscellaneous.
mutatis mutandis
 
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing by countersigning in the space provided below.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK, NY  February 1, 2012NYSE Euronext announced today that in light of the decision by the European Commission to prohibit its proposed combination with Deutsche Boerse, the companies are in discussions to terminate their merger agreement.
NYSE Euronext said it would focus on the successful standalone strategy that has delivered strong growth and diversification of its core businesses and that it would leverage its financial strength to return capital to shareholders. In that regard, NYSE Euronext announced its intent to resume a $550 million share repurchase program following the termination of the merger agreement and after the release of its fourth quarter and 2011 year-end results on February 10, 2012.
Jan-Michiel Hessels, NYSE Euronext Chairman said, "Our merger would have created a high standard for transparency, stability and efficiency in the global capital markets, and we proposed significant and tangible remedies designed to address the European Commission's concerns with the transaction. But as we made clear throughout this process, we would not agree to any concessions that would compromise or undermine the industrial and economic logic of the proposed combination.
"While we are disappointed and strongly disagree with the EU decision, which is based on a fundamentally different understanding of the derivatives market, it is now time to move on and return our sole focus to executing our compelling existing strategy  a strategy we have continued to implement without missing a beat over the last year.
"The strong underlying fundamentals of our core business, the strength and depth of our management team, and our diversified global footprint give us unique competitive advantages to exploit in the rapidly evolving global landscape as we continue to grow our successful franchises and return capital to shareholders."
Duncan Niederauer, NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer said: "I'm extremely proud of the efforts of the entire NYSE Euronext team over the last year. While effectively advancing our proposed merger on to the final step, we continued to execute our strategy and deliver the commitments we made to our shareholders.
"While we viewed the merger as a way to accelerate our plans, our existing business model was always central to our strategy. Our business had a strong year, giving us the opportunity to return more capital to our shareholders, as evidenced by today's buy-back announcement.
"We will also take advantage of our financial strength to capture opportunities for growth in derivatives, and through our new initiatives including technology services, NYSE Liffe US/NYPC and post-trade services. And, as always, we will continue the success we have had in optimizing the business through continued cost discipline and operational efficiency.
"In the weeks and months ahead, I look forward to sharing with our investors, employees, customers and partners, the exciting plans we have to continue our growth strategy, build on our reputation as the leading global operator of financial markets and create value for shareholders.
"On behalf of our company, I would like to acknowledge the efforts made by the regulators in our various markets, who worked very hard to accommodate the approval process for our transaction under very tight deadlines."
Finally, I would like to thank our colleagues at Deutsche Boerse for their shared vision of the value we would have created for our customers, shareholders, and employees, and for the significant efforts they made to see the deal through to approval."
Following termination of the merger agreement with DB, share repurchases may be executed at the discretion of management in open market or privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, subject to applicable United States and European laws, regulations and approvals, strategic considerations, market conditions and other factors. The $550 million buy-back is being executed under a $1.0 billion Board authorization established in March of 2008.
 
About NYSE Euronext
NYSE Euronext (NYX) is a leading global operator of financial markets and provider of innovative trading technologies. The company's exchanges in Europe and the United States trade equities, futures, options, fixed-income and exchange-traded products. With approximately 8,000 listed issues (excluding European Structured Products), NYSE Euronext's equities markets  the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext, NYSE Amex, NYSE Alternext and NYSE Arca  represent one-third of the world's equities trading, the most liquidity of any global exchange group. NYSE Euronext also operates NYSE Liffe, one of the leading European derivatives businesses and the world's second-largest derivatives business by value of trading. The company offers comprehensive commercial technology, connectivity and market data products and services through NYSE Technologies. NYSE Euronext is in the S&P 500 index, and is the only exchange operator in the Fortune 500. For more information, please visit: .
http://www.nyx.com
Safe Harbour Statement
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Brse AG, Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding N.V. ("Holding"), a newly formed holding company, filed, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") declared effective on May 3, 2011, a Registration Statement on Form F-4 with the SEC that includes (1) a proxy statement of NYSE Euronext that also constitutes a prospectus for Holding, which was used in connection with NYSE Euronext special meeting of stockholders held on July 7, 2011 and (2) an offering prospectus used in connection with Holding's offer to acquire Deutsche Brse AG shares held by U.S. holders. Holding has also filed an offer document with the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority () ("BaFin"), which was approved by the BaFin for publication pursuant to the German Takeover Act (), and was published on May 4, 2011. The acceptance period for the exchange offer expired on midnight, at the end of July 13, 2011 (Central European Daylight Savings Time), the additional acceptance period for the exchange offer expired on midnight, at the end of August 1, 2011 (Central European Daylight Savings Time). Pursuant to Section 39c of the German Takeover Act, shareholders of Deutsche Brse who had not yet accepted the exchange offer were still able to do so until midnight at the end of November 4, 2011 (Central European Time).
Bundesanstalt fr Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht
Wertpapiererwerbs-und bernahmegesetz
Investors and security holders are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus, the offering prospectus, the offer document, as amended, and published additional accompanying information in connection with the exchange offer regarding the proposed business combination transaction because they contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the definitive proxy statement/prospectus, the offering prospectus and other related documents filed by NYSE Euronext and Holding with the SEC on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other documents relating thereto may also be obtained for free by accessing NYSE Euronext's website at www.nyse.com. The offer document, as amended, and published additional accompanying information in connection with the exchange offer are available at Holding's website at www.global-exchange-operator.com.
This document is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell shares of Holding, Deutsche Brse AG or NYSE Euronext. The final terms and further provisions regarding the public offer are disclosed in the offer document that has been approved by the BaFin and in documents that have been filed with the SEC.
No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable European regulations. The exchange offer and the exchange offer document, as amended, shall not constitute an issuance, publication or public advertising of an offer pursuant to laws and regulations of jurisdictions other than those of Germany, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. The relevant final terms of the proposed business combination transaction will be disclosed in the information documents reviewed by the competent European market authorities.
Subject to certain exceptions, in particular with respect to qualified institutional investors () as defined in Article 2 para. 3 (i) of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended), the exchange offer has not been made directly or indirectly in or into Japan, or by use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality of interstate or foreign commerce (including without limitation, facsimile transmission, telephone and the internet) or any facility of a national securities exchange of Japan. Accordingly, copies of this announcement or any accompanying documents may not be, directly or indirectly, mailed or otherwise distributed, forwarded or transmitted in, into or from Japan.
tekikaku kikan toshika
The shares of Holding have not been, and will not be, registered under the applicable securities laws of Japan. Accordingly, subject to certain exceptions, in particular with respect to qualified institutional investors () as defined in Article 2 para. 3 (i) of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended), the shares of Holding may not be offered or sold within Japan, or to or for the account or benefit of any person in Japan.
tekikaku kikan toshika


