FILE:NYX/NYX-8K-20120326204523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
NYSE Euronext (the "") has entered into an amended and restated employment agreement with Duncan L. Niederauer, our CEO, and recalibrated his equity incentive compensation to include a performance-based element in the form of performance share units (""). The Company has taken these actions to retain and incentivize our high performing CEO at a critical juncture for the Company following the termination of the proposed business combination with Deutsche Brse. The employment agreement is intended to help ensure the stability and continuity of our management team, and the PSUs, which vest based on relative total shareholder return (""), will further strengthen the link between our CEO's compensation and shareholder value creation.
Company
PSUs
TSR
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with our CEO
Under his amended and restated agreement, Mr. Niederauer has agreed to waive his right to the golden parachute tax gross-up in his original employment agreement. This right required the Company to reimburse Mr. Niederauer for the 20% excise tax that would be imposed on him under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code if the amount of the payments and benefits that he would receive in connection with a change in control exceeded a specified threshold. In addition, Mr. Niederauer has agreed to a contingent cutback whereby the amount of these payments and benefits will be reduced to the maximum amount that will not trigger the excise tax if it leaves him in a better after-tax position. The waiver of the excise tax and the contingent cutback will benefit the Company by eliminating the excise tax reimbursement and, if the cutback applies, by reducing the amount of the change in control payments and benefits, and also by reducing or eliminating the amount of the Company's corresponding lost compensation deduction under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code.
In exchange for this waiver and contingent cutback, the amended and restated employment agreement restores the severance amount that applied under the original agreement during the first three years of the term and simplifies the agreement by providing for the same severance amount to be paid in "change in control" (as defined in our 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan) terminations and non-"change in control" terminations. The amended and restated agreement provides that, on termination of Mr. Niederauer's employment by the Company without "cause" or by Mr. Niederauer for "good reason" (as such terms are defined in his employment agreement), Mr. Niederauer is entitled to severance in an amount equal to two times his annual base salary plus target bonus. Under his original agreement, from the third anniversary of the agreement on May 29, 2011, this severance amount was reduced to one times his annual base salary plus target bonus (unless the termination occurred in connection with or anticipation of, or within two years after, a "change in control", in which case the two times multiple applied).
Performance Share Unit Grants to our CEO
Each PSU award represents the right to receive between 0% and 200% of the shares of NYSE Euronext common stock underlying the award based on the Company's TSR relative to the TSR of the S&P 500 for the applicable three-year performance period. Under his amended and restated employment agreement, Mr. Niederauer is entitled to receive a PSU award in each of 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, with the grant date number of shares underlying each award equal to $3,000,000 divided by the closing price of a share on the day before the grant date. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee has approved the 2012 award, which will be granted following the release of the Company's first quarter 2012 financial results. Each award will vest at the end of the applicable three-year performance period, subject generally to Mr. Niederauer's continued employment and the level of achievement of the applicable relative TSR goal.
 
If the Company's TSR equals the TSR of the S&P 500 for the performance period applicable to a PSU award, 100% of the shares underlying the award will be distributed. Each PSU award will be subject to a threshold relative TSR goal that, if met, will result in distribution of 75% of the underlying shares. The threshold will be met if the Company's TSR is 25 percentage points less than the TSR of the S&P 500. If the threshold is not met, no shares will be distributed, and the PSUs will be forfeited in their entirety. Each PSU award is also subject to a maximum relative TSR goal that, if met, will result in distribution of 200% of the underlying shares. The maximum will be met if the Company's TSR is 100 percentage points more than the TSR of the S&P 500. If the maximum is exceeded, no additional shares will be distributed. In addition, each PSU award is subject to a maximum payout such that the fair market value of the distributed shares (valued as of the end of the performance period) is capped at $6,000,000.
On termination of Mr. Niederauer's employment by the Company without "cause," by him for "good reason" or due to his death or "disability" (as such term is defined in his employment agreement), the PSUs will vest, and the underlying shares will be distributed, at the end of the performance period in an amount based on the level of achievement of the relative TSR goal for the entire period, pro-rated to reflect the portion of the period that Mr. Niederuaer was employed. In addition, under the award agreement for the 2012 grant, following his "retirement" (as defined in our 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan), Mr. Niederauer will continue to be eligible to vest in the PSUs as if he had remained employed through the end of the applicable performance period, subject to the achievement of the relative TSR goal for the entire period.
The above description of Mr. Niederauer's amended and restated employment agreement and the PSU grants to Mr. Niederauer does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of Mr. Niederauer's Amended and Restated Employment Agreement and the Form of Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
March 26, 2012
Mr. Duncan L. Niederauer
NYSE Euronext
11 Wall Street
New York, New York 10005
Dear Duncan:
We are pleased to offer you this amended and restated agreement (this "") with NYSE Euronext, a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ""), which upon countersignature by you shall become binding between you and the Company (each, a "").
Agreement
Company
Party
1. .
Employment; Duties
(a) As of the date hereof (the ""), the Company hereby continues to employ you, and you hereby agree to continue employment, as an employee of the Company for the duration of the "Term" (as defined in Section 2 below).
Effective Date
(b) During the Term, you shall (i) serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and its Affiliates (as defined in Section 12(a)) and, subject to the vote of the stockholders of the Company, a member of the Board of Directors of the Company (the ""); (ii) have all authorities, powers, duties and responsibilities set forth for the Chief Executive Officer in the Amended and Restated Bylaws of NYSE Euronext dated as of March 14, 2011, in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of NYSE Euronext dated as of April 4, 2007, in the Resolutions of the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext dated June 7, 2007, as well as all authority, powers, duties and responsibilities customarily and historically exercised by an individual serving in those positions at the Company and its predecessors or an entity of the size and nature of the Company (taking into account the authorities, duties and responsibilities of any non-Executive Chairman of the Company); (iii) be assigned no duties or responsibilities that are materially inconsistent with, or that materially impair, diminish or interfere with your ability to discharge, the foregoing duties and responsibilities; and (iv) report directly to the Board. During the Term, your principal office, and principal place of employment, shall be at the Company's principal executive offices in New York City, but you acknowledge and agree that the performance of your duties hereunder may require significant business travel.
Board
(c) During the Term, you shall devote substantially all of your business time, attention and ability to the proper discharge of your duties hereunder and shall not be employed in any other capacity without the prior written consent of the Board.
2. . The Term commenced as of May 29, 2008 and shall end on the date of your termination of employment in accordance with Section 5 of this Agreement.
Term
3. .
Compensation and Benefits
(a) . During the Term, you shall receive a base salary ("") of no less than the amount set forth on , , payable in accordance with the Company's standard payroll practices but no less frequently than monthly. Your Base Salary shall be reviewed no less frequently than annually during the Term for discretionary increase, effective January 1 of the year of increase. After any such increase, the term "Base Salary" as utilized in this Agreement shall thereafter refer to the increased amount. Your Base Salary shall not be decreased during the Term without your prior written consent.
Base Salary
Base Salary
Appendix A
per
annum
(b) . During the Term, you shall be eligible to receive an annual bonus, which shall be determined by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the ""), in its discretion, with a target bonus opportunity of no less than the amount set forth on per calendar year (the ""). Your Target Bonus shall be reviewed no less frequently than annually during the Term for discretionary increase, effective January 1 of the year of increase. After such increase, the term "Target Bonus" shall thereafter refer to the increased amount. Your annual bonus shall be paid in cash, equity-based compensation awards or a combination thereof (provided that (i) the proportion paid in cash shall be no less than one third, unless the proportion of annual bonuses paid in cash to other U.S. senior executives generally is less than one third and (ii) the terms and conditions of any cash or equity-based award shall be no less favorable to you than those applying to corresponding awards to other U.S. senior executives generally), subject to any valid deferral election by you, no later than March 15 of the calendar year following the year for which it is earned pursuant to the terms of the Company's annual incentive plan.
Annual Bonus
Committee
Appendix A
Target Bonus
(c) . During the Term, you shall be eligible to receive long term incentive compensation awards in amounts, in forms and on terms and conditions no less favorable than those provided to other U.S. senior executives of the Company generally; that in each of calendar years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 you shall be entitled to receive a time-vesting long term incentive award and a performance-vesting long term incentive award on terms and conditions that are no less favorable to you than those set forth in Appendix A.
Long Term Incentive Awards
provided
(d) . The Company shall withhold all applicable Federal, state and local taxes and other amounts as may be required by law or agreed upon by the Parties with respect to compensation payable to you pursuant to this Agreement.
Withholding
(e) . You shall be entitled during the Term to the number of weeks of vacation per calendar year provided to U.S. senior executives of the Company generally, but in no event fewer than four weeks' vacation per calendar year.
Vacation
 
(f) . During the Term, you will participate in all employee benefit plans, programs and arrangements, expense reimbursement arrangements, and all perquisites and fringe benefits, that are generally available to U.S. senior executives of the Company (the ""), on terms and conditions no less favorable to you than those applying to other U.S. senior executives of the Company generally. The Company shall also provide you with the use of a car and driver.
Employee Benefits
Company Arrangements
(g) . A directors' and officers' liability insurance policy (or policies) shall be kept in place, during the Term and for six years thereafter, providing coverage that is no less favorable to you in any respect (including, without limitation, with respect to scope, exclusions, amounts and deductibles) than the coverage then being provided to any other present or former officer or director of the Company.
D&O Insurance
(h) . The Company shall indemnify you and advance expenses to you to the extent similarly situated U.S. senior executives of the Company are indemnified and advanced expenses in accordance with the Company's bylaws as in effect from time to time, and following termination of your employment, you shall continue to be afforded such rights on terms and conditions no less favorable than active U.S. senior executive officers.
Indemnification
(i) .
Contingent Cutback
(i) If the aggregate of all amounts and benefits due to you (or your beneficiaries), under this Agreement or any other plan, program, agreement or arrangement of the Company or any of its Affiliates (or any payments, benefits or entitlements by or on behalf of any person or entity that effectuates a related transaction) (collectively, ""), would cause you to have "parachute payments" as such term is defined in and under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and would result in the imposition of excise taxes pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, the Company will reduce such payments and benefits so that the Parachute Value of all Change in Control Benefits, in the aggregate, equals the Safe Harbor Amount minus $1,000.00, but only if, by reason of such reduction, the Net After-Tax Benefit shall exceed the Net After-Tax Benefit if such reduction were not made (the ""). The determinations with respect to this Section 3(i)(i) shall be made by an independent auditor (the "") paid by the Company. The Auditor shall be a nationally-recognized United States public accounting firm chosen, and paid for, by the Company and approved by you (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Agreement or in any other applicable agreement or plan, any reduction in payments required under this Section 3(i) shall be implemented as follows: ; by reducing any payments to be made to you under Sections 6(b)(ii) and 6(b)(iii) below; ; by reducing any other cash payments to be made to you; ; by cancelling any outstanding equity-based compensation awards that are subject to performance vesting (""), the performance goals for which have not been met prior to the Termination Date or if later the date of the occurrence of the Change of Control; , by cancelling the acceleration of vesting of (i) any of your outstanding Performance-Based Equity the performance goals for which were met as of the Termination Date or if later the date of the occurrence of the Change of Control, and (ii) any of your outstanding equity awards not subject to performance vesting, including, without limitation, the acceleration of vesting of any such awards pursuant to Section 6(b)(iv) or (vi) below and , by eliminating
Change in Control Benefits
Code
Required Reduction
Auditor
first
second
third
Performance-Based Equity
fourth
fifth
 
the Company's payment of the cost of any post-termination continuation of medical or dental benefits for you and your dependents. In the case of the reductions to be made pursuant to each of the above- mentioned clauses, the payment and/or benefit amounts to be reduced, and the acceleration of vesting to be cancelled, shall be reduced or cancelled in the inverse order of their originally scheduled dates of payment or vesting, as applicable, and shall be so reduced (x) only to the extent that the payment and/or benefit otherwise to be paid, or the vesting of the award that otherwise would be accelerated, would be treated as a "parachute payment" within the meaning section 280G(b)(2)(A) of the Code, and (y) only to the extent necessary to achieve the Required Reduction.
(ii) It is possible that after the determinations and selections made pursuant to Section 3(i)(i) you will receive Change in Control Benefits that are, in the aggregate, either more or less than the limitations provided in Section 3(i)(i) above (hereafter referred to as an "" or "," respectively). If it is established, pursuant to a final determination of a court or an Internal Revenue Service proceeding that has been finally and conclusively resolved, that an Excess Payment has been made, then you shall refund the Excess Payment to the Company promptly on demand, together with an additional payment in an amount equal to the product obtained by the Excess Payment the rate that is 120% of the applicable annual federal rate (as determined in and under Section 1274(d) of the Code) a fraction whose numerator is the number of days elapsed from the date of your receipt of such Excess Payment through the date of such refund and whose denominator is 365. In the event that it is determined (x) by arbitration under Section 8 below, (y) by a court of competent jurisdiction, or (z) by the Auditor upon request by you or the Company, that an Underpayment has occurred, the Company shall pay an amount equal to the Underpayment to you within 10 days of such determination together with an additional payment in an amount equal to the product obtained by the Underpayment the rate that is 120% of the applicable annual federal rate (as determined in and under Section 1274(d) of the Code) a fraction whose numerator is the number of days elapsed from the date of the Underpayment through the date of such payment and whose denominator is 365.
Excess Payment
Underpayment
multiplying
times
times
multiplying
times
times
(iii) All determinations made by the Auditor under this Section 3(i) shall be binding upon the Company and you and shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable following the event giving rise to the Change in Control Benefits, or such later date on which a Change in Control Benefit has been paid or a request under clause (z) of Section 3(i)(ii) has been made.
(iv) . The following terms shall have the following meanings for purposes of this Section 3(i).
Definitions
"" means the present value (as determined in accordance with Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code) of the Change in Control Benefits net of all taxes imposed on you with respect thereto under Sections 1 and 4999 of the Code and under applicable state and local laws, determined by applying the highest marginal rate under Section 1 of the Code and under state and local laws which applied to your taxable income for the immediately preceding taxable year, or such other rate(s) as you certify as likely to apply to you in the relevant tax year(s).
Net After-Tax Benefit
 
"" of a Change in Control Benefit shall mean the present value as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code of the portion of such Change in Control Benefit that constitutes a "parachute payment" under Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code and its implementing regulations, as determined by the Auditor for purposes of determining whether and to what extent the Parachute Tax will apply to such Change in Control Benefit.
Parachute Value
The "" means 2.99 times your "base amount," within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code and its implementing regulations.
Safe Harbor Amount
(j) .
409A Compliance
(i) . It is the intent of the Parties that all compensation and benefits payable or provided to you (whether under this Agreement or otherwise) shall fully comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including Section 409A-3(i)(1)(v). Within the time period permitted by the applicable Treasury Regulations, the Company may, subject to your written approval (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld), modify the Agreement, in the least restrictive manner necessary without diminution of value, in order to cause the provisions of the Agreement to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, so as to avoid the imposition of taxes and penalties on you pursuant to Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a termination of your employment shall not be deemed to have occurred for purposes of any provision of this Agreement providing for the payment of any amounts or benefits that are considered nonqualified deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code upon or following a termination of employment, unless such termination is also a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and the payment thereof prior to a "separation from service" would violate Section 409A of the Code. For purposes of any such provision of this Agreement relating to any such payments or benefits, references to a "termination," "termination of employment," "Termination Date" or like terms shall mean "separation from service." In addition, for purposes of this Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to you pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code and whenever a payment under this Agreement specifies a payment period with reference to a number of days (e.g., "within 45 days of the Termination Date"), the actual date of payment within the specified period shall be within the sole discretion of the Company.
Full Compliance
(ii) . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if you are a "specified employee" (determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulation Section 1.409-3(i)(2)) as of the date that you have experienced a "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code), and if any payment, benefit or entitlement provided for in this Agreement or otherwise both (i) constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code ("") and (ii) cannot be paid or provided in a manner otherwise provided herein or otherwise without subjecting you to additional tax, interest and/or penalties under Section 409A of the Code, then any such payment, benefit or entitlement that is payable during the first 6 months following the Termination Date shall be paid or provided to you in a lump sum cash payment to be made on the earlier of (x) your death or (y) the first business day of the seventh calendar month immediately following the month in which the Termination Date occurs.
Specified Employee
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
 
4. . You agree that during your employment with the Company and for the 12-month period of time immediately following the termination of your employment with the Company, you will not, without the prior written consent of the Board of Directors of the Company, directly or indirectly:
Non-competition and Non-solicitation
(a) own, control, manage, loan money to, represent, render any service or advice to or act as an officer, director, employee, agent, representative, partner or independent contractor of any securities exchange, "ECN" or other such entity or similar direct seller of market data in the financial services business, whose business competes with the businesses of the Company or its majority-owned subsidiaries, in North America or Europe as such businesses were being conducted, or which the Company was actively planning to enter, at the time of the breach or alleged breach if the breach or alleged breach occurs during your employment or on the date of your termination of employment if the breach or alleged breach occurs thereafter (""); provided, however, that (i) the foregoing shall not prohibit you from passive ownership of securities in any publicly traded company that is engaged in any such business as long as you do not own five percent (5%) or more of any class of the equity securities of such company, and (ii) nothing in this Agreement shall preclude you from accepting employment with, or providing services to, any entity that engages in Competitive Activities so long as you work solely in a subsidiary, division or other distinct unit of such any entity, including an Affiliate, that does not engage, and is not actively planning to engage, in Competitive Activities;
Competitive Activities
(b) solicit, induce, influence, encourage, or attempt to solicit, induce, influence or encourage, either directly or indirectly, any person who is, at the time of such solicitation, inducement, influence, encouragement or attempt, or was during the previous six months, employed by the Company to terminate his or her employment relationship with the Company or hire or employ or engage any such person or otherwise interfere with any such person's employment by or association with the Company;
(c) induce, influence, encourage, or attempt to induce, influence or encourage, either directly or indirectly, any third party to terminate such party's business relationship with the Company or otherwise interfere with any business or contractual relationship of the Company; or
(d) serve as a board member on any board of directors of any company engaged in Competitive Activities, except as provided in Section 4(a)(ii).
You acknowledge and agree that: (i) the purposes of the foregoing covenants are to protect the goodwill and confidential or proprietary information and trade secrets of the Company, and to prevent you from interfering with the business of the Company; (ii) it would be impractical and excessively difficult to determine the actual damages of the Company in the event you breach any of the covenants of this Section 4; (iii) remedies at law for any breach of your obligations under this Section 4 would be inadequate; and (iv) the terms of the covenants are sufficiently limited to protect the legitimate interests of the Company and impose no undue hardship on you.
 
You therefore agree that if you commit any breach of a covenant under this Section 4 or threaten to commit any such breach, the Company shall have the right (in addition to any other right or remedy that may be available to it) to injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction located in the State of New York or otherwise, without posting any bond or other security and without the necessity of proof of actual damage. With respect to any provision of this Section 4 finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable, this Agreement or any provision hereof shall be reformed so that it is enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law.
5. . Your employment hereunder, and the Term, shall terminate upon the first to occur of the following events:
Termination
(a) . You die.
Death
(b) . You have been unable, for 120 or more days out of 180 consecutive days, to perform your duties under this Agreement, as a result of physical or mental illness, injury or incapacity, and the Company shall have communicated to you, by written notice, the fact of your termination, which termination shall be effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by you, unless you return to full-time performance of your duties hereunder prior to such 30th day. Upon the timely request and at the expense of Company, any such physical or mental illness, injury or incapacity shall be confirmed by an independent medical professional acceptable to both Parties, before your employment can be terminated for disability.
Disability
(c) . Your employment hereunder may only be terminated by the Company for Cause by complying with the provisions of this Section 5(c).
For Cause
(i) You shall be given written notice by the Board of its intention to terminate you for Cause, such notice (x) to state in detail the particular circumstances that constitute the grounds on which the proposed termination for Cause is based and (y) to be given no later than 90 days after the Board, as a whole, is first made aware of such circumstances. The question of whether Cause existed may be challenged through arbitration in accordance with Section 8.
(ii) For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean: (1) your conviction, or a plea of , to a felony involving moral turpitude; (2) willful misconduct or gross neglect by you resulting, in either case, in material harm to the Company; (3) a willful continued failure by you to carry out the reasonable and lawful directions of the Board; (4) fraud, embezzlement, theft or dishonesty of a material nature by you against the Company or a willful violation by you of a policy or procedure of the Company that has been communicated in writing to you, resulting, in any case, in material harm to the Company; or (5) a willful material breach by you of Section 4 of this Agreement, which breach is not cured by you on 30 days written notice from the Board requesting cure. An act or failure to act shall not be "willful" if (x) done by you in good faith or (y) you reasonably believed that such action or inaction was in the best interests of the Company.
Cause
nolo contendere
(d) . The Company may terminate your employment hereunder at any time, for any reason or no reason, by giving you four weeks' prior written notice of the termination. No such termination of your employment hereunder shall be deemed a breach of this Agreement.
Without Cause
 
(e) . You may terminate your employment hereunder for "," which, for purposes of this Agreement shall mean, without your prior written consent, the occurrence of any of the following events or actions: (1) a material reduction of your Base Salary or Target Bonus, which for this purpose shall mean one or more reductions that, individually or in the aggregate, exceed 5% of your highest Base Salary or Target Bonus, as applicable, excluding any reduction applicable equally to all U.S. senior executives following an extraordinary decline in the Company's earnings, share price or public image; (2) an actual non-temporary relocation of your principal office to a location that is more than 50 miles from New York, NY where such relocation is not occasioned by exigent health and safety conditions; (3) a material negative and non-temporary change, diminution or reduction, for any reason including any such change by reason of a Change in Control, in your authority, powers, titles, reporting relationship, responsibilities or duties as Chief Executive Officer as set forth in this Agreement, including, by way of example, requiring a reporting relationship to an Executive Chairman, or other reporting relationship that has the practical effect of materially diminishing your current authority, powers, duties or responsibilities, or assigning you duties that are materially and negatively inconsistent with your position as Chief Executive Officer, in either case, of a magnitude that changes the fundamental current character of your job as Chief Executive Officer to such an extent as to constitute a demotion; (4) a change in your reporting so that you cease to report to the Board of Directors of the Company (or, after a Change in Control (as defined in the 2008 Stock Incentive Plan) and if applicable, the Board of Directors of the ultimate parent of the Company); (5) failure to nominate you as a Director at the first election following your removal from the Board; (6) failure of the Company to obtain the assumption in writing of its obligations under this Agreement by any successor to all or substantially all of the assets of the Company within 15 days after a merger, consolidation, sale or similar transaction; or (7) a material breach by the Company of this Agreement. In order to invoke a termination for Good Reason, you shall provide written notice to the Company of the existence of one or more of the conditions described in clauses (1) through (7) within 90 days following your knowledge of the initial existence of such condition or conditions (the ""), and the Company shall have 30 days following receipt of such Good Reason Notice (the "") during which it may remedy the condition. In the event that the Company fails to remedy the condition constituting Good Reason during the applicable Cure Period, you must terminate employment, if at all, within two years following the existence of the condition for which the Good Reason Notice is given in order for such termination as a result of such condition to constitute a termination for Good Reason.
For Good Reason
Good Reason
de facto
Good Reason Notice
Cure Period
(f) . You may terminate your employment hereunder at any time, for any reason or no reason, by giving four weeks' prior written notice of termination to the Company. No such termination of your employment hereunder shall be deemed a breach of this Agreement.
Without Good Reason
 
6. . In the event that your employment hereunder is terminated, for any or no reason, you shall be entitled to the following compensation and benefits:
Benefits Upon Termination of Your Employment
(a) . On any termination of your employment hereunder, you shall be entitled to the following benefits:
Any Termination
(i) prompt payment of any accrued but unpaid Base Salary through the date that your employment terminates (such date, the ""), payable no later than the first regularly scheduled payroll date following the Termination Date;
Termination Date
(ii) prompt lump-sum payment in respect of your accrued but unused vacation days, payable as soon as practicable following the Termination Date;
(iii) prompt payment of any bonuses that were earned but not yet paid or deferred as of the Termination Date, payable on the dates that such amounts would have been paid had your employment continued through the date of such payments; and
(iv) any other or additional payment, entitlement and/or benefit in accordance with the applicable terms of any plan, policy, program or arrangement of, or any agreement with, the Company or any Affiliate of the Company.
(b) . In the event that your employment hereunder is terminated (x) by the Company ( for Cause in accordance with Section 5(c) or by reason of your disability in accordance with Section 5(b)) or (y) by you with Good Reason in accordance with Section 5(e), you shall receive the following benefits, provided, except as set forth in Section 6(b)(i) below, that you execute (within 30 days after the Termination Date), and do not timely revoke in accordance with its terms, a release that is in the form attached hereto as Appendix B, with such modifications as may be necessary to comply with applicable law:
Termination without Cause or with Good Reason
other
than
(i) the benefits described in Section 6(a) (you will receive these benefits regardless of whether you execute a release);
(ii) a lump-sum payment, in cash, equal to the product obtained by multiplying (A) an annual bonus for the calendar year of your termination, determined on the basis of Committee's determination of the achievement of the applicable performance metrics for such calendar year (provided that in no event shall the Committee exercise negative discretion with respect to you in excess of that applied to active U.S. senior executives of the Company generally) as if you had remained employed until the date annual bonuses are paid by the Company, times (B) a fraction whose numerator equals the number of days you were employed during such calendar year and whose denominator is 365, such payment to be made at the time annual bonuses are paid by the Company (but in no event later than March 15 of the following calendar year);
(iii) a lump sum cash amount equal to two times the sum of (1) the greater of (x) the Base Salary in effect on the Termination Date or (y) the Base Salary immediately prior to any reduction that would constitute Good Reason, plus (2) the greater of (a) the Target Bonus in effect on the Termination Date or (b) the Target Bonus immediately prior to any reduction that would constitute Good Reason payable within 45 days of the Termination Date, in no event discounted to reflect the present value;
 
(iv) any equity-based compensation awards granted with respect to an annual bonus, including with respect to any bonus payable in accordance with Section 6(a)(iii), shall become fully vested and non-forfeitable as of the Termination Date (and, in the case of restricted stock or restricted stock units, with prompt delivery of freely transferable shares);
(v) you shall vest in a number of other equity-based compensation awards under the Company's long-term incentive plans that are subject to performance vesting conditions equal to the product obtained by multiplying (A) the number of shares or units subject to such awards, determined on the basis of the Committee's determination at the end of the performance period of the achievement of the applicable performance metrics for such performance period (provided that in no event shall the Committee exercise negative discretion with respect to you in excess of that applied to active U.S. senior executives of the Company generally) as if you had remained employed until the date such awards would otherwise vest or be settled by the Company (and, in the case of restricted stock or restricted stock units, with delivery of freely transferable shares at the time such shares would have been delivered had you remained employed on the delivery date), times (B) a fraction, whose numerator equals the number of days you were employed during the applicable performance period and whose denominator is the total number of days in the applicable performance period;
(vi) as of the Termination Date, you shall vest in the equity-based compensation awards under the Company's long-term incentive plans that are subject to time-based vesting conditions as if you had remained employed through the vesting date for the award in question immediately following the Termination Date (and, in the case of restricted stock or restricted stock units, with prompt delivery of freely tradable shares); and
(vii) all health and life insurance benefits will continue through the second anniversary of the Termination Date (the "") at the same level as such benefits were provided to you immediately prior to the Termination Date; , however, that, the Company will provide such health care benefits during the Continuation Period in such a manner that complies with applicable law and ensures that such benefits are no more expensive to you in any way than the active employee cost, including but not limited to, through the purchase of individual insurance coverage; , however, that if you become re-employed with another employer and are eligible to receive health care and/or life insurance benefits under another employer-provided plan, the health care benefits provided hereunder shall be secondary, and the life insurance benefits shall be supplemental, to those provided under such other plan during the Continuation Period.
Continuation Period
provided
provided, further
(c) . In the event your employment hereunder is terminated by reason of your death or disability (in accordance with Section 5(b)), you shall receive the following benefits:
Termination for Death or Disability
(i) the benefits described in Section 6(a);
(ii) a lump-sum payment, in cash, equal to the product obtained by multiplying (A) an annual bonus for the calendar year of your termination, determined on the basis of Committee's determination of the achievement of the applicable performance metrics for such calendar year (provided that in no event shall the Committee exercise negative discretion
 
with respect to you in excess of that applied to active U.S. senior executives of the Company generally) as if you had remained employed until the date annual bonuses are paid by the Company, times (B) a fraction whose numerator equals the number of days you were employed during such calendar year and whose denominator is 365, such payment to be made at the time annual bonuses are paid by the Company (but in no event later than March 15 of the following calendar year);
(iii) any equity-based compensation awards granted with respect to an annual bonus, including with respect to any bonus payable in accordance with Section 6(a)(iii), shall become fully vested and non-forfeitable as of the Termination Date (and, in the case of restricted stock or restricted stock units, with prompt delivery of freely transferable shares);
(iv) you shall vest in a number of other equity-based compensation awards under the Company's long-term incentive plans that are subject to performance vesting conditions equal to the product obtained by multiplying (A) the number of shares or units subject to such awards, determined on the basis of the Committee's determination at the end of the performance period of the achievement of the applicable performance metrics for such performance period (provided that in no event shall the Committee exercise negative discretion with respect to you in excess of that applied to active U.S. senior executives of the Company generally) as if you had remained employed until the date such awards would otherwise vest or be settled by the Company (and, in the case of restricted stock or restricted stock units, with delivery of freely transferable shares at the time such shares would otherwise have been delivered had you remained employed on the delivery date), times (B) a fraction, whose numerator equals the number of days you were employed during the applicable performance period and whose denominator is the total number of days in the applicable performance period; and
(v) as of the Termination Date, you shall vest in the equity-based compensation awards under the Company's long-term incentive plans that are subject to time-based vesting conditions as if you had remained employed through the vesting date for the award in question immediately following the Termination Date (with prompt delivery of freely tradable shares therewith).
(d) . In the event of any termination of your employment hereunder, you shall have no obligation to seek other employment or otherwise mitigate the obligations of the Company under this Agreement, and there shall be no offset or recoupment against amounts, benefits or entitlements due to you under this Agreement on account of (x) any claim that the Company or any of its Affiliates may have against you or (y) any remuneration or other benefit earned or received by you after such termination.
No Mitigation; No Offset
7. . Any notice, consent, demand, request, or other communication given to a Person (as defined in Section 12(a)) in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given to such Person (x) when delivered personally to such Person or (y)  that a written acknowledgment of receipt is obtained, five days after being sent by prepaid certified or registered mail, or two days after being sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier, to the address (if any) specified below for such Person (or to such other address as such Person shall have specified by ten days' advance notice given in accordance with this Section 7).
Notices
provided
 
8. . Any Claim (as defined in Section 12(a)) arising out of or relating to this Agreement, any other agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates, your employment with the Company, or any termination thereof (a "") shall be resolved by binding confidential arbitration, to be held in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City, in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules (and not the National Rules for Resolution of Employment Disputes) of the American Arbitration Association and this Section 8. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Subject to a cap of $50,000, the Company shall promptly reimburse all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and other charges of counsel) incurred by you or your beneficiaries in resolving such Covered Claim (but in any event no less than 15 days after resolution), provided that you substantially prevail on the Covered Claim at issue.
Resolution of Disputes
Covered Claim
9. . If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by any court or arbitrator of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced in whole or in part, the remaining conditions and provisions or portions thereof shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect and enforceable to the extent they are valid, legal enforceable.
Severability of Provisions
and
10. .
Entire Agreement; Modification; Inconsistencies
(a) This Agreement, including its Appendices, contains the entire understanding and agreement between the Parties concerning the specific subject matter hereof and supersedes in its entirety, as of the date it is executed by the Parties, any prior understanding or agreement between the Parties concerning the specific subject matter hereof.
 
(b) No provision in this Agreement may be amended unless such amendment is set forth in a writing that expressly refers to the provision of this Agreement that is being amended and that is signed by you and by an authorized representative of the Company. No waiver by any Person of any breach of any condition or provision contained in this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any similar or dissimilar condition or provision at the same or any prior or subsequent time. To be effective, any waiver must be set forth in a writing signed by the waiving Person and must specifically refer to the condition(s) or provision(s) of this Agreement being waived.
(c) In the event of any conflict between any provision of this Agreement and any provision of any employee handbook, employment application, personnel manual, program, policy, arrangement, agreement, plan, or corporate governance document of the Company or any of its Affiliates, the provisions of this Agreement shall control unless you otherwise agree in writing that the provision of such handbook, application, manual, program, policy, arrangement, agreement, plan or document governs in a manner that expressly refers to the provision of this Agreement that you are waiving.
11. .
Assignability; Binding Nature
(a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors, heirs (in your case) and assigns.
(b) No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by the Company except that such rights and obligations may be assigned or transferred pursuant to a merger, consolidation or other combination in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or a sale or liquidation of all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company; provided that the assignee or transferee is the successor to all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company and such assignee or transferee expressly assumes the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company as set forth in this Agreement. In the event of any merger, consolidation, other combination, sale of business and assets, or liquidation as described in the preceding sentence, the Company shall use its best reasonable efforts to cause such assignee or transferee to promptly and expressly assume the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company hereunder.
(c) None of your rights or obligations under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by you other than your rights to compensation and benefits, which may be transferred only by will or by operation of law, except that you shall be entitled, to the extent permitted under applicable law, to select and change a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit hereunder following your death by giving written notice thereof to the Company.
12. .
Miscellaneous
(a) For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings: "" of a Person shall mean any Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person; "" shall mean any claim, demand, request, investigation, dispute, controversy, threat, discovery request, or request for
Affiliate
Claim
 
testimony or information; and "" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, estate, board, committee, agency, body, employee benefit plan, or other person or entity.
Person
(b) In the event of your death or a judicial determination of your incompetence, references in this Agreement to you shall be deemed, where appropriate, to refer to your beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.
(c) This Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with its express terms, and otherwise in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
(d) This Agreement can only be terminated on or after the Termination Date, provided that, except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, the respective rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall survive any termination of this Agreement and your employment hereunder.
(e) The headings of Sections and subsections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect any interpretation of this Agreement.
 
If this letter agreement meets with your approval, please execute the enclosed copy of this letter and return it to the General Counsel as soon as possible. Signatures delivered by facsimile shall be effective for all purposes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agreement and General Release ("Agreement"), by and between Duncan L. Niederauer ("Employee" or "you"), and the NYSE Euronext (the "Exchange") on behalf of its past and/or present parent entities, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliates and related business entities, successors and assigns, assets, employee benefit plans or funds, and any of its or their respective past and/or present directors, officers, fiduciaries, agents, trustees, administrators, employees and assigns, whether acting as agents for the Exchange or in their individual capacities (collectively the "Exchange Entities").
1. . You acknowledge your separation from employment with the Exchange effective                     , 20     (the "Separation Date"), and that after the Separation Date you shall not be nor shall you represent yourself as being an employee, officer, agent or representative of the Exchange for any purpose. The Separation Date shall be the termination date of your employment for purposes of participation in and coverage under all benefit plans and programs sponsored by or through the Exchange Entities. Following the Separation Date, you shall be paid or provided with all amounts and benefits described under Section 6(a) of the Employment Agreement between you and the Exchange dated as of May 29, 2008 (the "Employment Agreement").
Concluding Employment
2. . In exchange for your waiver of claims against the Exchange Entities, the Exchange agrees to provide you, at such time and in such manner specified in your Employment Agreement, with those amounts and benefits set forth and described in Section 6(b) of that Agreement that are in addition to those payments and benefits described in Section 6(a) and that are specifically conditioned upon you executing and not revoking this Agreement.
Exchange Covenants
3. . You hereby agree that the noncompetition and nonsolicitation and other covenants and agreements set forth in Section 4 of the Employment Agreement shall survive in their entirety and you shall continue to be bound thereby in accordance with their terms. In addition, you agree not to make, participate in making, or encourage or facilitate any other person to make, any statements, written or oral, which criticize, disparage, or defame the goodwill or reputation of, or which embarrass or adversely affect the morale of, any of the Exchange Entities or any of their respective present, former or future directors, officers, executives, employees and/or shareholders. You further agree not to make any negative statements, written or oral, relating to your employment, the termination of your employment, or any aspect of the business of the Exchange Entities. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent you from making truthful statements when required by law, court order, or the like or to the extent reasonably necessary to enforce or defend rights arising under, or preserved by, the Employment Agreement or this Agreement.
Restrictive Covenants
 
4. . You acknowledge and agree that the payment(s) and other benefits provided under Section 6(b) of the Employment Agreement: (i) are in full discharge of any and all liabilities and obligations of the Exchange to you, monetarily or with respect to employee benefits or otherwise, including but not limited to any and all obligations arising under any alleged written or oral employment agreement, policy, plan or procedure of the Exchange and/or any alleged understanding or arrangement between you and the Exchange; and (ii) exceed(s) any payment, benefit, or other thing of value to which you might otherwise be entitled under any policy, plan or procedure of the Exchange and/or any agreement between you and the Exchange.
Acknowledgement
5. . a. In consideration for the severance benefits being provided to you pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Agreement, you, for yourself and for your heirs, executors, administrators, trustees, legal representatives and assigns (hereinafter referred to collectively as "Releasors"), hereby irrevocably and unconditionally forever release and discharge the Exchange and the Exchange Entities from any and all claims, demands, causes of action, fees and liabilities of any kind whatsoever, whether known or unknown, which you ever had, now have, or may have against any of the Exchange Entities by reason of any act, omission, transaction, practice, plan, policy, procedure, conduct, occurrence, or other matter up to and including the date on which you sign this Agreement.
Release
b. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Agreement is intended to and shall release the Exchange Entities from any and all claims, whether known or unknown, which Releasors ever had, now have, or may have against the Exchange Entities arising out of your employment and/or your separation from that employment, including, but not limited to: (i) any claim under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (the "ADEA"), the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (excluding claims for accrued, vested benefits under any employee benefit or pension plan of the Exchange Entities, subject to the terms and conditions of such plan and applicable law), and the Family and Medical Leave Act; (ii) any claim under the New York State Human Rights Law, the New York City Administrative Code; (iii) any other claim (whether based on federal, state, or local law, statutory or decisional) including but not limited to breach of contract (express or implied), wrongful discharge, detrimental reliance, defamation, emotional distress or compensatory or punitive damages; and (iv) any claim for attorneys' fees, costs, disbursements and/or the like. Nothing in this Agreement shall be a waiver or release of claims (A) that may arise after the date on which you sign this Agreement; or (B) that arise from the Exchange's obligations under the terms of this Agreement or pursuant to Section 3(g) (Indemnification), Section 3(h) (D&O Insurance), Section 3(i) (Contingent Cutback), Section 3(j) (409A Compliance), Section 6(d) (No Mitigation/No Offset), Section 8 (Resolution of Disputes), and Section 11(b) of the Employment Agreement, (C) that relate to your rights to be indemnified and/or advanced expenses under applicable law or your rights under any applicable directors' and officers' or other liability insurance policy or policies or (D) any vested or accrued rights you have pursuant to any plan, program, policy, arrangement of, or any agreement with, any Exchange Entity. By releasing the claims described in this paragraph 5, you do not waive any claims that cannot be waived as a matter of law, including without limitation any claims filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Department of Labor or claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act that arise after the date of this Agreement.
 
6. . You acknowledge and agree that by virtue of the foregoing, you have waived any relief available to you (including without limitation, monetary damages, equitable relief and reinstatement) under any of the claims and/or causes of action waived in paragraph 5. Therefore you agree that you will not accept any award or settlement from any source or proceeding (including but not limited to any proceeding brought by any other person or by any government agency) with respect to any claim or right waived in this Agreement.
Waiver of Relief
7. . a. You agree that, subject to your personal and other business commitments, you will reasonably cooperate with the Exchange and/or the Exchange Entities and its or their respective counsel in connection with any investigation, administrative proceeding or litigation relating to any matter that occurred during your employment in which you were involved or of which you have knowledge; provided that nothing herein shall require you to cooperate if such cooperation is adverse to your legal interests. The Exchange and/or the Exchange Entity, as applicable, agrees to reimburse you promptly for any reasonable and necessary expenses you incur in connection with such cooperation, including, but not limited to, reasonable travel, meals and attorneys' fees and related expenses if you reasonably determine that separate representation of you is warranted. In no event shall any cooperation hereunder or otherwise exceed twenty (20) days per year. You agree that, in the event you are subpoenaed by any person or entity (including, but not limited to, any government agency) to provide documents or give testimony (in a deposition, court proceeding or otherwise) which in any way relates to your employment by the Exchange and/or the Exchange Entities, unless prohibited by law or regulation, you will give prompt notice of such request to Mr. Philippe Duranton, Executive Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources, NYSE Euronext, 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005 (or his successor or designee) and will make no disclosure until the Exchange and/or the Exchange Entities have had a reasonable opportunity to contest the right of the requesting person or entity to such disclosure.
Cooperation
8. . Unless and until any Exchange Entity publicly discloses a finally and fully executed version of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement are and shall be deemed to be confidential, and shall not be disclosed by you or any Exchange Entity to any person or entity without the prior written consent of the Exchange, except if required by law, and to your accountants, attorneys and/or immediate family or any prospective employer, provided that, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, rule, code or regulation, they agree to maintain the confidentiality of the Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this provision shall not apply (i) when disclosure is required by law or by any court, arbitrator, mediator or administrative or legislative body (including any committee thereof) with actual or apparent jurisdiction to order you to disclose or make accessible any information, (ii) with respect to any litigation, arbitration or mediation involving this Agreement, including enforcement of this Agreement or (iii) in connection with any cooperation or assistance you provided pursuant to Section 6 above.
Confidentiality
 
9. . You represent that you have returned (or will return) to the Exchange all property belonging to the Exchange and/or the Exchange Entities, including but not limited to all proprietary and/or Confidential Information and documents in any form belonging to the Exchange, cell phone, Blackberry, beeper, keys, card access to the building and office floors, Employee Handbook, phone card, rolodex (if provided by the Exchange and/or the Exchange Entities), computer user name and password, disks and/or voicemail code. Notwithstanding the above, the Exchange will allow you to purchase your Exchange-issued laptop computer(s) at fair market value, provided that any such computer you purchase is first submitted to the Exchange for removal of any Confidential Information and you shall be permitted to retain (i) personal papers and other personal materials, including, but not limited to, photographs, personal correspondence, personal diaries, personal calendars and Rolodexes, personal files and personal phone books, (ii) information showing your compensation or relating to reimbursement of expenses and (iii) copies of plans, programs, policies and agreements relating to your employment or termination thereof.
Return of Property
10. . a. This Agreement is not intended, and shall not be construed, as an admission that any of the Exchange Entities has, or you have, violated any federal, state or local law (statutory or decisional), ordinance or regulation, breached any contract or committed any wrong whatsoever against the other party.
Miscellaneous
b. Should any provision of this Agreement require interpretation or construction, it is agreed by the parties that the entity interpreting or construing this Agreement shall not apply a presumption against one party by reason of the rule of construction that a document is to be construed more strictly against the party who prepared the document.
11. . This Agreement is binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the parties and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Assignment
12. . You understand that this Agreement constitutes the complete understanding between the Exchange and you, and supersedes any and all agreements, understandings, and discussions, whether written or oral, between you and any of the Exchange Entities, including the Employment Agreement, but not including any equity or long-term incentive agreement or any other agreement between you and the Exchange entered into after May 29, 2008. No other promises or agreements shall be binding unless in writing and signed by both the Exchange and you after the Effective Date of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following provisions of the Employment Agreement shall survive in accordance with their terms: Section 3(g) (Indemnification); Section 3(h) (D&O Insurance); Section 3(i) (Contingent Cutback); Section 3(j) (409A Compliance); Section 4 (Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation); Section 6(a) (Any Termination); Section 6(b) (Termination without Cause or With Good Reason); Section 6(d) (No Mitigation; No Offset); Section 7(Notices); Section 8 (Resolution of Disputes); Section 9 (Severability of Provisions), Section 10(b) (Amendments), Section 10(c) (Waivers); Section 11(a) (Binding), Section 11(b) (Assignability); Section 11(c) (Assignment); Section 12(b) (Death); and Section 12(c) (Governing Law).
Entire Agreement
 
13. . You acknowledge that you: (a) have carefully read this Agreement in its entirety; (b) have had at least 21 days (or 45 days if such longer period is required by ADEA) to consider its terms (but in no event less than the time period set forth in Section 6(b) of the Employment Agreement); (c) are hereby advised by the Exchange in writing to consult with an attorney of your choosing in connection with this Agreement; (d) fully understand the significance of all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and have discussed them with your independent legal counsel, or had a reasonable opportunity to do so; (e) have had answered to your satisfaction any questions you have asked with regard to the meaning and significance of any of the provisions of this Agreement; and (f) are signing this Agreement voluntarily and of your own free will and agree to abide by all the terms and conditions contained herein.
Voluntary Agreement
14. . You may accept this Agreement by signing it and returning it to Mr. Philippe Duranton (or his successor), Executive Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources, NYSE Euronext, 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005. After executing this Agreement, you shall have seven (7) days (the "Revocation Period") to revoke it by indicating your desire to do so in writing delivered to Mr. Philippe Duranton or his successor at the address above by no later than 5:00 p.m. on the seventh (7th) day after the date you sign this Agreement. The effective date of this Agreement shall be the eighth (8th) day after you sign it (the "Effective Date"). If the last day of the Revocation Period falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the last day of the Revocation Period will be deemed to be the next business day. In the event you do not accept this Agreement as set forth above and in accordance with Section 6(b) of the Employment Agreement, or in the event you revoke this Agreement during the Revocation Period, this Agreement, including but not limited to the obligation of the Exchange to provide you with severance benefits pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Agreement shall be deemed automatically null and void.
Acceptance
15. . The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only. They shall not be considered part of the Agreement and shall not be employed in the construction of the Agreement.
Headings and Captions
 
 
On this      day of                      20    , before me personally came                                  to me known and known to me to be the person described and who executed the foregoing Agreement, and s/he duly acknowledged to me that s/he executed the same.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Agreement (this ""), entered into as of [insert date], by and between NYSE Euronext (the "") and [insert name] (the "").
Agreement
Company
Participant
, the Company has adopted the NYSE Euronext Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ""), which is administered by the committee appointed by the Company's Board of Directors (the ""); and
WHEREAS
Plan
Committee
, pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Plan, the Committee may grant performance stock units to the Participant, as an Eligible Employee.
WHEREAS
, for and in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
1. Grant of Performance Share Units.
Subject to the restrictions and other conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, the Committee has authorized this grant of performance stock units ("") in the amount of [#] PSUs (the "") to the Participant on [insert grant date] (the "").
PSUs
Grant Date Amount
Grant Date
2. Vesting and Distribution Schedule.
(a) . The PSUs shall vest to the extent that both the "Service Condition" and the "Performance Condition" are satisfied as of the "Measurement Date" (as such terms are defined below). For the avoidance of doubt, if no percentage of either the Performance Condition or Service Condition is satisfied as of the Measurement Date, the PSUs shall not vest and shall be forfeited in its entirety without any payment to the Participant.
Vesting Generally
(b) . Subject to Section 2(f), the Service Condition shall be satisfied (fully or on a pro rata basis, as applicable) as of the first to occur of the following:
Service Condition
(i) The Service Condition shall be fully satisfied as of [insert December 31 of second year after year of grant (e.g., December 31, 2014 if grant is made in 2012) ] (the ""); that the Participant has not experienced a Termination at any time prior to the Measurement Date.
Measurement Date
provided
(ii) Upon Termination of the Participant as a result of Disability, death or an Involuntary Termination, in each case at any time prior to the Measurement Date, a percentage of the Service Condition shall be satisfied as of the date of such Termination, as applicable, which percentage shall equal (x) the number of days during the period commencing on [insert January 1 of year of grant] (the "") and ending on the date of such Termination, (y) the number of days during the period commencing on the Start Date and ending on the Measurement Date, and (z) 100, and the remaining percentage of the Service Condition thereafter shall not be eligible to be satisfied.
Start Date
divided by
multiplied by
(iii) Upon a Termination of the Participant as a result of a Retirement at any time prior to the Measurement Date, the Service Condition shall be fully satisfied as of the date of such Termination.
(vi) Upon a Termination of the Participant at any time prior to the Measurement Date for any reason other than as a result of an Involuntary Termination, Disability, death or Retirement, the PSUs shall be forfeited in their entirety without any payment to the Participant.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term (or a like term including, without limitation, a termination of employment by the Company without "cause" or by the Participant for "good reason") in an employment agreement entered into between the Participant and the Company or an Affiliate that is in effect as of the date of such Termination (the ""), or if no such agreement is in effect as of the date of such Termination, shall mean the Termination of the Participant by the Company or an Affiliate, without Cause, including (without limitation) pursuant to a formal division, department or organization-wide reduction in force. Each of the Committee and the Company's senior Human Resources officer (and any designee thereof) shall have the discretion to determine whether the Participant's employment has been terminated pursuant to an Involuntary Termination for purposes of the Plan and this Agreement. Such decision shall be final and binding on the Participant, the Company, its Affiliates and all of their respective successors and assigns.
Involuntary Termination
Employment Agreement
(c) . Subject to the Payout Cap (as defined below), if as of the Measurement Date:
Performance Condition
(i) "Company TSR" equals "S&P 500 TSR" (as such terms are defined below), 100% of the Performance Condition will be satisfied as of such date;
(ii) Company TSR exceeds S&P 500 TSR, then the percentage of the Performance Condition that will be satisfied as of such date will equal the sum of (x) 100% (y) 1% (or part thereof, rounded to two decimal places) for each percentage point (or part thereof) by which Company TSR exceeds S&P 500 TSR; that in no event shall the percentage of the Performance Condition that is satisfied exceed 200%; and
plus
provided
(iii) Company TSR is less than S&P 500 TSR, then the percentage of the Performance Condition that will be satisfied as of such date will equal (x) 100% (y) 1% (or part thereof, rounded to two decimal places) for each percentage point (or part thereof) by which Company TSR is less than S&P 500 TSR; that in no event shall any percentage of the Performance Condition be satisfied if Company TSR is more than 25 percentage points less than S&P 500 TSR.
minus
provided
The following terms shall have the following meanings:
"" means (x) the End Price of a share of Common Stock the Start Price of a share of Common Stock, (y) such Start Price and (z) 100, assuming for such purpose the reinvestment in shares of the pre-tax value of the dividends, if any, paid on such share for any dividend record dates that occur during the period beginning on [insert January 1 of year of grant] and ending on the Measurement Date.
Company TSR
minus
divided by
multiplied by
 
"" means the average of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on each of the 30 trading days ending with the last trading day preceding [insert January 1 of year of grant].
Start Price
"" means the average of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on each of the 30 trading days ending with the Measurement Date or, if the Measurement Date is not a trading day, the last trading day preceding the Measurement Date.
End Price
"" means total shareholder return for the S&P 500 for the period beginning on [insert January 1 of year of grant] and ending on the Measurement Date, as reflected in the S&P 500 Total Return Index as reported by Bloomberg.
S&P 500 TSR
The Committee shall adjust equitably the Start Price and/or the End Price, as calculated in accordance with the definitions thereof set forth above, to reflect any corporate transaction or event set forth in Section 4.2(b) of the Plan that affects a share of Common Stock if such adjustment is appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under this Award.
(d) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2(b) and (c), in the event of a Change of Control, the Committee shall determine, in its sole and equitable discretion, whether the PSUs shall (i) fully or partially vest or (ii) be continued, assumed, cancelled in consideration of a cash payment or have new rights substituted therefor.
Change of Control
(e) . As soon as practicable after the Measurement Date, the Committee shall determine the number of PSUs, if any, that vested as of such date in accordance with this Section 2, which number shall equal the product of (x) the percentage of the Service Condition that was attained as of such date (which for the avoidance of doubt shall in no event exceed 100%), (y) the percentage of the Performance Condition that was attained as of such date (which for the avoidance of doubt shall in no event exceed 200%) (z) the Grant Date Amount. For each PSU, if any, that vests in accordance with the preceding sentence, the Company shall distribute to the Participant one share of Common Stock (such shares, collectively, the "") as soon as practicable after the Measurement Date (and in all events not later than 60 days after such date). Any PSUs that do not vest in accordance with this Section 2 shall be forfeited without any payment to the Participant. No fractional shares shall be delivered under this Agreement, and so any fractional share that may be payable shall be rounded to the nearest whole share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Fair Market Value of the PSU Shares that are delivered under this Section 2(e) exceed $6,000,000 as of the Measurement Date (the "").
Distribution
multiplied by
multiplied by
PSU Shares
Payout Cap
For purposes of illustration only, Exhibit A sets forth examples of the number of PSU Shares that would be payable to a participant, based on the assumptions set forth in such examples.
(f) . Upon a Termination of the Participant as a result of an Involuntary Termination or Retirement, the Participant's entitlement, if any, to distribution of the PSU Shares in accordance with Section 2(d) shall be subject to (x) any requirement set forth in the Employment Agreement to execute and not revoke a release of claims or (y) if no such agreement is then in effect, the Participant's execution (not later than 60 days after such Termination), and non-revocation, of a legally sufficient release in a form then to be provided by the Company.
Release
 
3. Rights as a Stockholder; Transferability.
The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to the PSU Shares, unless and until the Participant has become the holder of record upon distribution of such Shares. Adjustments shall be made for dividends in cash or other property, distributions or other rights with respect to the PSUs or the PSU Shares only to the extent expressly provided in the Plan. Unless and until the PSU Shares are distributed to the Participant, such PSU Shares shall not be Transferable by the Participant.
4. Withholding.
The Participant shall pay, or make arrangements to pay, in a manner satisfactory to the Company, an amount equal to the amount of all applicable federal, state and local or foreign taxes that the Company is required to withhold at any time with respect to the PSUs and the PSU Shares, including by the Company withholding a number of PSU Shares to be delivered hereunder necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding obligations based on the Fair Market Value of such Shares on the delivery date. In the absence of such arrangements, the Company or one of its Affiliates shall have the right to withhold such taxes from the Participant's normal pay or other amounts payable to the Participant to the extent permitted under applicable law. In addition, any statutorily required withholding obligation may be satisfied, in whole or in part, at the Participant's election, in the form and manner prescribed by the Committee, including by delivery of shares of Common Stock (including PSU Shares).
5. Controlling Provisions.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Agreement is subject to all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan, including, without limitation, the amendment provisions thereof, and to such rules, regulations and interpretations relating to the Plan as may be adopted by the Committee and as may be in effect from time to time. The Plan is incorporated herein by reference. Capitalized terms in this Agreement that are not otherwise defined shall have the same meanings as set forth in the Plan. If and to the extent that this Agreement conflicts or is inconsistent with the terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan, this Agreement shall control. This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior agreements between the Company and the Participant with respect to the subject matter hereof.
6. Amendment; Section 409A of the Code.
To the extent applicable, the Board or the Committee may at any time and from time to time amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of this Agreement to comply with Section 409A of the Code or any other applicable law and may also amend, suspend or terminate this Agreement subject to the terms of the Plan; that no such amendment shall impair the Participant's rights hereunder without his or her prior written consent. While the Company does not guarantee any particular tax treatment with respect to the PSUs and the PSU shares, payment of the PSU Shares is intended either to qualify as a "short-term deferral" under Section 409A of the Code or to comply with Section 409A. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything else in this Agreement, if the Committee considers the Participant to be one of the Company's "specified employees" under Section 409A of the Code at the time of the Participant's Termination and such Termination constitutes a "separation from service" under
provided
 
Section 409A, any distribution that otherwise would be made to the Participant with respect to the PSUs as a result of such Termination shall not be made until the date that is six months after such Termination, except to the extent that earlier distribution would not result in the Participant incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code.
7. Notices.
Any notice or communication given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered in person, or by United States mail, to the appropriate party at the address set forth below (or such other address as the party shall from time to time specify):
If to the Company, to:
NYSE Euronext
11 Wall Street, 16
th
Floor
New York, New York 10005
Attention: Elizabeth R. Arreglado
If to the Participant, to the address on file with the Company.
8. No Obligation to Continue Employment.
This Agreement is not an agreement of employment. This Agreement does not guarantee that the Company or its Affiliates will employ or retain, or continue to employ or retain, the Participant during the entire, or any portion of the, term of this Agreement, including but not limited to any period during which any PSU is outstanding, nor does it modify in any respect the Company's or its Affiliates' right to terminate or modify the Participant's employment or compensation.
9. Issuance of Common Stock.
The Participant agrees that the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any PSU Shares if the Company reasonably determines that such sale or delivery would violate any applicable law, rule or regulation of any governmental authority or any applicable rule or regulation of, or agreement of the Company with, any securities exchange or association upon which the Common Stock is listed or quoted. In the event of any such restriction (other than one due to insider trading issues), the Company shall take all such action as may be necessary or appropriate to eliminate such restriction at the earliest practicable date. All PSU Shares when issued shall be duly authorized and shall be (a) validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, (b) registered for sale, and for resale, by the Participant under federal and state securities laws and shall remain registered so long as the shares may not be freely sold in the absence of such registration and (c) listed, or otherwise qualified, for trading in the United States, on each national securities exchange or national securities market system on which the Common Stock is listed or qualified. Except as expressly provided herein, the Company shall not otherwise have any right not to deliver the PSU Shares.
10. Miscellaneous.
(a) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
(b) Provisions contained in the Employment Agreement, if applicable, relating to golden parachute tax, mitigation and offset, resolution of disputes, governing law and survival of the Employment Agreement are incorporated into this Agreement.
mutatis mutandis
 
(c) If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by any court or arbitrator of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced in whole or in part, the remaining conditions and provisions or portions thereof shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect and enforceable to the extent they are valid, legal and enforceable.
11. Transfer of Personal Data.
The Participant authorizes, agrees and unambiguously consents to the transmission by the Company (or any Affiliate) of any personal data information related to the PSUs, for legitimate business purposes (including, without limitation, the administration of the Plan) out of the Participant's home country and including to countries with less data protection than the data protection provided by the Participant's home country. This authorization/consent is freely given by the Participant.
12. NO ACQUIRED RIGHTS.
THE PARTICIPANT ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT: (A) THE COMPANY MAY TERMINATE OR AMEND THE PLAN AT ANY TIME; (B) THE AWARD OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS MADE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS EXCEPTIONAL AND UNIQUE AND IS COMPLETELY INDEPENDENT OF ANY OTHER AWARD OR GRANT AND IS MADE AT THE SOLE DISCRETION OF THE COMPANY; AND (C) NO PAST GRANTS OR AWARDS (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARDED HEREUNDER) GIVE THE PARTICIPANT ANY RIGHT TO ANY GRANTS OR AWARDS IN THE FUTURE WHATSOEVER.
 
Acceptance of this Agreement by the Participant constitutes acceptance of these terms, effective as of the day and year first set forth above.
 
 
Exhibit A
For purposes of illustration only, the following are examples of the number of PSU Shares that would be distributed to a participant, based on the assumptions set forth in the examples. These examples assume that the value of the PSU Shares on the delivery date does not exceed the payout cap of $6,000,000. If the value of the PSU Shares would exceed $6,000,000 the number of PSU shares would be cut back.
:
Assumptions for all examples
 
 
:
Example 1
 
 
 
So the percentage of the PSUs that vest = 138% (, 100% + (50%  12%)).
i.e.
And the number of PSUs shares that are distributed = 138,000 (, 138% x 100,000).
i.e.
:
Example 2
 
 
So the percentage of the PSUs for which the Service Condition is attained = 50% (, 18 months employed  36 months in performance period x 100%).
i.e.
And the number of PSUs shares that are distributed = 69,000 (, the 138,000 calculated under Example 1 x 50%).
i.e.
:
Example 3
 
 
 
So the percentage of the PSUs that vest = 75% (, 100%  (13%  (12%))).
i.e.
And the number of PSUs shares that are distributed = 75,000 (, 75% x 100,000).
i.e.
Example 4:
 
 
 
The Company TSR is 28% below the S&P 500 TSR. Therefore 0% of the Performance Condition is attained and no PSUs will vest.
 


