FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20030428162514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:     (408) 544-7000
Table of Contents
.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Item 12, Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
     The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On April 28, 2003, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 28, 2003
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Scott Wylie Vice President  Investor Relations Altera Corporation (408) 544-6996 swylie@altera.com
INVESTOR CONTACT
Anna del Rosario Director  Public Relations Altera Corporation (408) 544-6866 anna.delrosario@altera.com
MEDIA CONTACT
April 28, 2003Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) today announced first quarter sales of $195.1 million, up 8% from the fourth quarter of 2002, ahead of the company's previous expectations of 4% sequential growth. Sales of the company's new products grew 11% sequentially.
San Jose, Calif.,
First quarter net income was $30.1 million, $0.08 per diluted share, and compares to fourth quarter net income of $27.1 million, $0.07 per diluted share. The First Call consensus estimate for the current quarter was $0.07 per diluted share. First quarter gross profit margin was 67.1% of sales and included a $9.1 million pretax benefit resulting from the sale of inventory previously written down in 2001.
Altera repurchased 1.9 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $21.7 million and ended the quarter with $985.4 million in cash and short-term investments.
"For the seventh quarter in a row, new product sales increased, demonstrating our competitive momentum and ability to penetrate new applications across a broad spectrum of markets," said John Daane, president and CEO. "Customer design opportunities and design wins continue to be strong as more and more system engineers turn to programmable technology with its lower development costs and increased flexibility."
 
Altera continued to advance its leadership position in system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions.
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the second quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's second quarter business update will be made available on June 3 after the market close and will be posted on the company's web site. Those who do not have access to the Internet may contact Altera's investor relations department directly at (408) 544-7707.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements," as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "expects", or words that imply or predict a future state. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty which can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, the risk that future performance is dependent on the design performance of software and other tools, customer business environment, Altera's ability to meet product introduction schedules, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products and in particular the Stratix, Stratix GX and Cyclone device families, as well as changing economic conditions, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) is the world's pioneer of system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions. Combining programmable logic technology with software tools, intellectual property, and technical services, Altera provides high-value programmable solutions to approximately 14,000 customers worldwide. More information is available at http://www.altera.com.
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
 
 
 
Product Category Description


