FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20041020162809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 20, 2004, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 20, 2004
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
INVESTOR CONTACT
Scott Wylie
Vice President  Investor Relations
Altera Corporation
(408) 544-6996
swylie@altera.com
 
MEDIA CONTACT
Anna del Rosario
Director  Public Relations
Altera Corporation
(408) 544-7496
anna.delrosario@altera.com
 
 
., October 20, 2004  Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) today announced third quarter sales of $264.6 million, up 26% from the third quarter of 2003 and down 2% from the second quarter of 2004. Sales of the company's new products grew 25% sequentially and were up 212% versus the prior year's third quarter.
San Jose, Calif
 
Third quarter net income was $83.1 million, $0.22 per diluted share, up 90%, versus net income of $43.8 million, $0.11 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2003. Gross profit margin was 69.4% for the third quarter of 2004 versus 68.7% for the third quarter of 2003. Net income was favorably impacted by a one-time tax benefit of $17.1 million, $0.05 per diluted share, primarily related to a settlement with Hong Kong's Inland Revenue Department for the tax years 1997 to 2003.
 
Altera repurchased 1.2 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $23.2 million and ended the quarter with $1.1 billion in cash and short-term investments.
 
"Despite this quarter's challenges, our new 0.13-micron products remain on a fast track, with very strong sequential growth. While we continue to see increasing production-driven demand for the Stratix
and Cyclone
families, we are still early in the transition from customer prototype volumes to large scale production-based orders. The peak of demand for these families is still ahead of us," said John Daane, president and CEO. "Available since June, and the only FPGAs to use a 90-nanometer process with high-performance, low-k dielectric materials, our Stratix II family rollout is progressing smoothly. The combination of this proven 90-nanometer manufacturing process, the new Stratix II architecture, and our Quartus
II development software delivers benchmarking comparisons that confirm the Stratix II family's performance superiority in the PLD industry."
 
 
Altera continued to advance its leadership position in system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions.
 
 
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the fourth quarter. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
Altera's fourth quarter business update will be made available on December 8 after the market close and will be posted on the company's web site. Those who do not have access to the Internet may contact Altera's investor relations department directly at (408) 544-7707.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements," as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "expects", or words that imply or predict a future state. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty which can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, Altera's ability to meet product introduction schedules, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products and in particular the Stratix, Stratix GX, and Cyclone device families, the rate at which our customers new platforms enter production, the rollout of the company's Stratix II, Cyclone II, and MAX
II families, as well as changing economic conditions, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
Altera Corporation (Nasdaq:ALTR) is the world's pioneer of system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions. Combining programmable logic technology with software tools, intellectual property, and technical services, Altera provides high-value programmable solutions to approximately 14,000 customers worldwide. More information is available at http://www.altera.com.
 
 
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
Note: Statements of income for the three and nine month periods ended October 1, 2004 included a one-time tax benefit of $17.1 million primarily related to a settlement with Hong Kong's Inland Revenue Department for the tax years 1997 to 2003.
 
 
 
Note: Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 


