FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20051024162304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 24, 2005, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On October 24, 2005, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing an increase in the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the company's share repurchase program. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 24, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
., October 24, 2005  Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) today announced third quarter 2005 sales of $291.5 million, up 2% from the second quarter of 2005 and up 10% from the third quarter of 2004. Sales of the company's new products grew 23% sequentially and were up 66% from the prior year's third quarter.
San Jose, Calif
 
Third quarter net income was $77.8 million, $0.21 per diluted share, compared to net income of $83.1 million, $0.22 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2004. Gross profit margin was 66.5% for the third quarter of 2005 versus 69.4 % for the third quarter of 2004.
 
The third quarter tax provision includes a $3.6 million charge related to the future repatriation of an additional $100 million of foreign earnings pursuant to the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. In addition, the company recorded a tax benefit of approximately $2.6 million arising primarily from the settlement of federal and California income tax audits and the filing of U.S. and state 2004 income tax returns during the quarter. The net impact of these three items added $1 million to the company's third quarter tax provision.
 
Altera repurchased 4.7 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $93.8 million. Altera ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash and short- and long-term investments.
 
"Every new product family grew sequentially this quarter, including FPGAs, CPLDs, and HardCopy
structured ASICs, creating another quarter of strong new product growth. The Stratix
and Stratix GX families collectively grew 40% sequentially and now represent more than 20% of Altera's revenues, demonstrating Altera's continuing leadership across this generation of high-density FPGAs," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Among our most recently introduced products, the Cyclone
II family is off to a fast start, extending the lead established with the original Cyclone family in the low-cost FPGA space. At the high end, the Stratix II FPGA family also grew strongly and remains the 90-nm high-density leader."
 
Altera's innovation and execution made the company the fastest-growing programmable logic supplier in 2004. This track record of innovation and execution continues in 2005:
 
 
 
Business Outlook
Altera expects sales in the fourth quarter to be unchanged compared to the third quarter, plus or minus 2%. Gross margins are likely to be in the range of 66%. The company further anticipates that R&D spending will approximate $53 million and that SG&A expenses will approximate $58 million. Other income will approximate $9 million. The expected tax rate is 20%.
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and the fourth quarter 2005 outlook. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
Altera's fourth quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on December 5.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "anticipates", "expects", or words that imply or predict a future state. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix, Stratix II, Cyclone, Cyclone II, MAX
II, and HardCopy II device families, changes in customer production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
Altera Corporation (Nasdaq:ALTR) is the world's pioneer of system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions. Combining programmable logic technology with software tools, intellectual property, and technical services, Altera provides high-value programmable solutions to approximately 14,000 customers worldwide. More information is available at http://www.altera.com.
 
 
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 
Note: During the quarter ended July 1, 2005, we refined our methodology for classifying revenue by market segment. All prior period data have been adjusted to conform to the current period's methodology. Data calculated under both the new and former methodologies are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at http://www.altera.com.
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
Altera Corporation today announced that its board of directors has approved a 20 million share increase to the company's share repurchase program. There are now 26.6 million shares authorized by the board of directors for repurchase. Under the program, which was previously authorized by the board of directors, shares may be purchased in the open market from time to time at the discretion of the company's management. Since the initiation of the share repurchase program in 1996, Altera has repurchased 81.4 million shares at a cost of $1.7 billion.
San Jose, Calif., October 24, 2005
 
About Altera
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) is the world's pioneer in system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions. Combining programmable logic technology with software tools, intellectual property, and technical services, Altera provides high-value programmable solutions to approximately 14,000 customers worldwide. More information is available at www.altera.com.
 
 
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.


