FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20050725162403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 25, 2005, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
99.1       Press Release dated July 25, 2005
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 25, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
INVESTOR CONTACT
Scott Wylie
VP  Investor Relations
Altera Corporation
(408) 544-6996
swylie@altera.com
 
MEDIA CONTACT
Anna Del Rosario
Director  Public Relations
Altera Corporation
(408) 544-7496
anna.delrosario@altera.com
 
 
., July 25, 2005  Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) today announced second quarter 2005 sales of $285.5 million, up 8% from the first quarter of 2005 and up 6% from the second quarter of 2004. Sales of the company's new products grew 25% sequentially and were up 70% from the prior year's second quarter.
San Jose, Calif
 
Second quarter net income was $67.6 million, $0.18 per diluted share, compared to net income of $75.3 million, $0.20 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2004. Gross profit margin was 68.3% for the second quarter of 2005 versus 69.9% for the second quarter of 2004.
 
The second quarter tax provision includes a $21 million charge related to the planned repatriation of $400 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. In addition, the company recorded a tax benefit of approximately $15.2 million arising primarily from the settlement of Federal and California income tax audits during the quarter. The net impact of these two items added $5.8 million to the company's second quarter tax provision, reducing earnings per share by $0.01.
 
Altera repurchased 1.9 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $38.0 million. Altera ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash and short- and long-term investments.
 
"Our new product growth rate accelerated from the first quarter's pace. Stratix
II FPGA sales doubled from the first quarter, and we continue to lead the 90-nm high-density FPGA market by a wide margin. While still very early in their life cycle, Cyclone
II FPGA and MAX
II CPLD sales more than tripled, demonstrating the revenue growth potential represented by these new families. This was also another great quarter for HardCopy
structured ASIC sales, with results up sharply from the first quarter," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Our two largest selling product families, Cyclone and Stratix FPGAs, also posted solid gains in the quarter. They remain the leading products of their generation in the PLD industry."
 
Altera's innovation and execution made the company the fastest-growing programmable logic supplier in 2004. This track record of innovation and execution continues in 2005:
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the Third Quarter
Note: The following management expectations for the third quarter are stated in approximate terms and assume no impact from the operation of the company's deferred compensation plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and the third quarter 2005 outlook. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
Altera's third quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on September 6.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "believe", "expects", or words that imply or predict a future state. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix, Stratix II, Cyclone, Cyclone II, MAX II, and HardCopy II device families, the rate at which our customers' new platforms enter production, as well as changing economic conditions, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the
 
company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
Altera Corporation (Nasdaq:ALTR) is the world's pioneer of system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions. Combining programmable logic technology with software tools, intellectual property, and technical services, Altera provides high-value programmable solutions to approximately 14,000 customers worldwide. More information is available at http://www.altera.com.
 
 
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
Note: Our Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (NQDC Plan) had a gain of $0.7 million and a loss of $1.2 million, respectively, for the three month periods ended July 1, 2005 and April 1, 2005. Gains or (losses) were included in interest and other income, as well as compensation expense as follows. There was no net impact on income before income taxes or net income for any period presented.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 
Note: During the quarter ended July 1, 2005, we refined our methodology for classifying revenue by market segment. All prior period data have been adjusted to conform to the current period's methodology. Data calculated under both the new and former methodologies are available in the investor relations section of the company's website at http://www.altera.com.
 


