FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20050425162634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 25, 2005, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 25, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
., April 25, 2005  Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) today announced first quarter 2005 sales of $264.8 million, up 10% from the fourth quarter of 2004 and up 9% from the first quarter of 2004. Sales of the company's new products grew 16% sequentially and were up 96% from the prior year's first quarter.
San Jose, Calif
 
First quarter net income was $63.8 million, $0.17 per diluted share, compared to net income of $58.8 million, $0.15 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2004. Gross profit margin was 68.3% for the first quarter of 2005 versus 68.8% for the first quarter of 2004.
 
Altera repurchased 2.3 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $43.4 million. Altera's tax rate for the first quarter was 20%, in line with the company's expected annual tax rate for 2005, and 1% lower than prior guidance. Altera ended the quarter with $1.2 billion in cash and short-term investments.
 
"Stratix II FPGA revenues more than doubled sequentially and this family remains, by a wide margin, the best selling high-density FPGA for customers in the development phase today. This success builds on the market-leading position we previously established with our high-density Stratix and low-cost Cyclone families," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "We believe that the peak revenues for Cyclone and Stratix devices are still well ahead of us and that our overall competitive position for securing design wins at the leading edge is increasing with the Stratix II and Cyclone II families. On the CPLD side of our business, the MAX II family is now completely rolled out. We expect that this family, with its innovative low-cost architecture, will further expand our position as the world's leader in CPLDs."
 
Altera's innovation and execution made the company the fastest growing programmable logic company in 2004. The track record of innovation and execution continues in 2005:
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
 
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the second quarter of 2005. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
Altera's second quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on May 31.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "believe", "expect", or words that imply or predict a future state. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix, Stratix II, Cyclone, Cyclone II, MAX II, and HardCopy II device families, the rate at which our customers' new platforms enter production, as well as changing economic conditions, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
 
Altera Corporation (Nasdaq:ALTR) is the world's pioneer of system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions. Combining programmable logic technology with software tools, intellectual property, and technical services, Altera provides high-value programmable solutions to approximately 14,000 customers worldwide. More information is available at http://www.altera.com.
 
 
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
 
Note: During the quarter ended April 1, 2005, the Company's Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan assets experienced a market decline of $1.2 million. This resulted in decreased compensation expense of $1.2 million ($0.4 million R&D expense, $0.8 million SG&A expense) and a corresponding decrease in interest and other income of $1.2 million. There was no net impact on income before income taxes or net income for the quarter.
 
 
 
Note: Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 
 


