FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20060427162414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 27, 2006, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
., April 27, 2006  Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) today announced first quarter 2006 sales of $292.8 million, up 4% from the fourth quarter of 2005 and 11% from the first quarter of 2005. New product sales increased 28% sequentially and were up 173% from the prior year's first quarter.
San Jose, Calif
First quarter 2006 net income, on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, was $58.7 million, $0.16 per diluted share, compared with net income of $63.8 million, $0.17 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2005. Non-GAAP net income, excluding the effects of stock-based compensation expense, was $73.0 million, $0.20 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2006.
Altera repurchased 2.2 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $43.7 million. Altera ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash and investments.
"Led by Stratix II FPGAs, all of our new programmable devices set new sales records. Our new products were up more than 28% sequentially and drove Altera's first quarter sales growth. Based on cumulative sales, we remain the market-leading supplier of FPGAs introduced since 2002," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "We began shipping the 90-nm Stratix II GX FPGA family in March, ahead of schedule. We expect that the rest of the family will also arrive sooner than originally planned. We have met or exceeded our initial customer delivery commitments on all of our 90-nm device families, which further strengthens customer relationships and our competitive position."
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the Second Quarter 2006
Altera provides guidance on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis, excluding stock-based compensation expenses. Inclusion of stock-based compensation charges in GAAP-based operating expense adds significantly to the volatility of actual versus expected expense due to volatility in our stock price, which we cannot predict. Additionally, these forecasts assume that the impact of the company's non-qualified deferred compensation plan will be nil.
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the second quarter of 2006. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's second quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on May 30.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "expects", "anticipates", or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense, or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in
 
this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix II, Stratix II GX, Cyclone II, MAX II, and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This release and accompanying financial tables present non-GAAP financial information excluding non-cash stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with or an alternative for generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Altera believes that the use of these non-GAAP measures, when shown in conjunction with corresponding GAAP-based measures, provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to Altera's financial condition and results of operations. Altera management uses these non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, to review Altera's financial performance. Non-GAAP reporting represents relevant and useful information that is widely used by financial analysts, investors and other interested parties in our industry. Altera's management believes this presentation is useful to investors in evaluating performance on a basis that is consistent and comparable with periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Since stock-based compensation expense will not require cash payment by the company, the company's non-GAAP presentation, that excludes these expenses, may be a useful measure of the company's performance. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial results is provided on page 5 of this release.
About Altera
Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) is the world's pioneer of system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions. Combining programmable logic technology with software tools, intellectual property, and technical services, Altera provides high-value programmable solutions to more than 14,000 customers worldwide. More information is available at http://www.altera.com.
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
Note: Effective January 2006, the product classification (new, mainstream and mature & other) has changed. All prior period data has been adjusted to conform to the current classification. Data calculated under both the new and former classification are available in the investor relations section of the company's website at http://www.altera.com/corporate/ir/financials/product/irs-repchange.html.
 


