FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20060724165320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 24, 2006, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its sales results for the second quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 24, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
., July 24, 2006  Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced second quarter 2006 sales of $334.1 million, up 14% from the first quarter of 2006 and 17% from the second quarter of 2005. New product sales increased 50% sequentially and were up 139% from the prior year's second quarter. Additional financial results for the second quarter will be available as soon as practicable after the company's previously announced review of historical stock option practices and related accounting concludes.
San Jose, Calif
"Growth accelerated this quarter led by robust new product sales gains. Our largest growth contributor was the 90-nm Stratix II FPGA family, demonstrating our continued strong competitive position as a high-density FPGA supplier. We saw substantial growth as well from low-cost Cyclone II FPGAs and MAX II CPLDs. Our operations team and manufacturing partners performed superbly, allowing us to capitalize on rising demand for our products and respond to those customers we were not able to fully supply in the first quarter," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Our prior generation 130-nm FPGAs also contributed to the quarter's growth with combined sales of our high-density Stratix and Stratix GX devices up solidly from the prior quarter and the low-cost Cyclone family setting a new sales record."
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
 
 
Sales Outlook for the Third Quarter 2006
Altera expects that third quarter sales will be in the range of $334 million to $344 million.
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's sales and management's sales outlook for the third quarter of 2006. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's third quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on September 5, 2006.
 
Stock Option Practices Review, NASDAQ Listing Update, and Second Quarter Form 10-Q
As announced on June 21, 2006, Altera expects to restate its previously issued financial statements to correct errors related to accounting for stock-based compensation expense. The additional non-cash stock-based compensation charges will require the restatement of financial statements for the fiscal years 1996 to 2005, although the company does not anticipate a material charge to 2005. It is not anticipated that these restatements will affect the accounting for current or prior period sales. The special committee of independent board members has not completed its work and, with the assistance of legal counsel and outside accounting experts, is continuing its review of Altera's historic stock option practices and related accounting.
As a result of the on-going stock option review, Altera has not filed its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006. Consequently, the company received a Staff Determination Letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that the company's securities were subject to delisting unless the company requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. The company requested a hearing and on June 22, 2006 presented its plan to regain compliance with NASDAQ listing regulations to the Panel. The Panel has not yet issued its decision. There can be no assurance that the NASDAQ Panel will grant the company's request for continued listing on NASDAQ.
Because the special committee's review is ongoing, Altera does not expect to file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006 by the date required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Altera has informed NASDAQ of this anticipated filing delay.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "expects", "anticipates", or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of sales discussed in the Sales Outlook section of this press release, the effect of the options review on the company's financial statements, and the anticipated Form 10-Q filing delay. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, the outcome of Altera's hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel, the results of the review of the company's stock option practices, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix II, Cyclone II, MAX II, and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC
 
filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at 
www.altera.com.
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 


