FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20060517172019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 3.01 Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing.
On May 12, 2006, Altera Corporation received a written Staff Determination notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market, stating that Altera is not in compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) because it has not timely filed its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006. Altera Corporation issued a press release on May 17, 2006 disclosing its receipt of this Nasdaq Staff Determination notice. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
The Nasdaq Staff Determination notice indicated that Altera's securities will be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market unless Altera requests a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. Accordingly, Altera Corporation will request a hearing before a hearing panel to review the Nasdaq Staff Determination notice. A timely request for a hearing will stay the delisting pending the hearing and a decision by the hearing panel. There can be no assurance that the hearing panel will grant Altera's request for continued listing.
On May 8, 2006, Altera announced that its board of directors has established a special committee comprised of independent directors to conduct an internal review of its historical stock option practices and related accounting treatment. The special committee is being assisted by independent legal counsel and outside accounting experts. Altera intends to file its Form 10-Q as soon as practicable after completion of the special committee's review.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1      Press Release dated May 17, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 17, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
Altera Receives Nasdaq Notice Regarding Delayed Filing of Form 10-Q
SAN JOSE, Calif.(BUSINESS WIRE)May 17, 2006Altera Corporation (Nasdaq:ALTR) today announced that it has received a Nasdaq Staff Determination notice stating that the company is not in compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) because it has not timely filed its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006. The Nasdaq Staff Determination notice indicated that Altera's securities will be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market unless Altera requests a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. Accordingly, Altera will request a hearing to review the Nasdaq Staff Determination. Pending a decision by the hearing panel, Altera's common stock will remain listed on The Nasdaq National Market. However, there can be no assurance that the hearing panel will grant the company's request for continued listing.
On May 8, 2006, Altera announced that its board of directors has established a special committee of independent directors to review the company's historical stock option practices and related accounting and that as a result of this review, the company would not be able to file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006. The special committee is being assisted by independent legal counsel and outside accounting experts. Altera intends to file its Form 10-Q as soon as practicable after completion of the special committee's review.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning Altera's plans to request a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel as well as Altera's review of its historical option practices. There can be no assurance concerning the outcomes of the hearing request and the review. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release also involve risks discussed in the company's Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 14, 2006. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate differentiate, and win in their markets. Find out more at http://www.altera.com.
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific
device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
CONTACT: Altera Corporation
Scott Wylie, 408-544-6996 (Investors)
swylie@altera.com
Anna Del Rosario, 408-544-6397 (Media)
anna.delrosario@altera.com
SOURCE: Altera Corporation


