FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20060315150242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(b) Retirement of Director.
On March 13, 2006, Charles M. Clough notified the Board of Directors of Altera Corporation (the "Company") that he intends to retire and will not seek re-election to the Company's Board of Directors at the Company's next annual meeting of stockholders on May 9, 2006.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a) Amendment to Bylaws.
On March 13, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors voted to amend Sections 2.7 and 3.3 of the Company's bylaws to provide that directors will be elected by a majority of the votes cast in uncontested elections. A majority of votes cast means that the number of shares entitled to vote on the election of directors and represented in person or by proxy at annual stockholder meetings casting their vote "for" a director must exceed the number of such votes cast "against" that director. In contested elections, when the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the vote standard will continue to be a plurality of the votes cast.
If a nominee for director, who is not serving as a director of the Company at the time of such election, does not receive a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, such nominee shall not be elected. If a nominee for director, who is serving as a director of the Company at the time of such election, does not receive a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, such nominee shall tender his or her resignation to the Company's Board of Directors. The Company's Nominating and Governance Committee shall then make a recommendation to the Company's Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation. The Company's Board of Directors will act on the Nominating and Governance Committee's recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the reasons for it within 90 days from the date that the election results are certified. The director who tenders his or resignation will not participate in the Board's decision.
The amended bylaws are effective as of March 13, 2006 and are attached as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Company's press release announcing the bylaw amendments is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 15, 2006
 

EXHIBIT 3.2
 
 
 
 
The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware 19808.
Section 1.1 Delaware Office.
The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Section 1.2. Other Offices.
The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's headquarters in San Jose, California or at such other locations outside the State of Delaware as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Section 1.3. Books and Records.
An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors from time to time. Only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the annual meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder.
Section 2.1. Annual Meetings.
Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, or the Lead Independent Director. Such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons
Section 2.2. Special Meetings.
 
Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given that shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than 10 days (unless a greater period of notice is required by law in a particular case) nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Section 2.3. Notice of Meetings.
Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Section 2.4. Adjournments.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, at each meeting of stockholders the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of shares of stock having a majority of the votes which could be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at the meeting shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum, the stockholders so present may, by majority vote, adjourn the meeting from time to time in the manner provided in Section 2.4 of these By-laws until a quorum shall attend. Shares of its own stock belonging to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
Section 2.5. Quorum.
Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the President, or in his absence by a Vice President, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of such designation by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 2.6. Organization.
Except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be
Section 2.7. Voting; Proxies.
 
entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by him which has voting power upon the matter in question. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for him by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or by delivering a proxy in accordance with applicable law bearing a later date to the Secretary of the Corporation. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot; provided, however, that any election for directors must be by ballot if demanded by any stockholder at the meeting before the election has begun. Voting for the election of directors at any meeting of stockholders shall be as specified in Section 3.3 of these By-laws. All other matters presented to the stockholders for a vote, unless otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, shall be decided by the vote of the holders of shares of stock having a majority of the votes which could be cast by the holders of all shares of stock outstanding and entitled to vote thereon.
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which record date: (1) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting and (2) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than 60 days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held and (2) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Section 2.8. Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting
Section 2.9. List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote.
 
is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. Upon the willful neglect or refusal of the directors to produce such a list at any meeting for the election of directors, they shall be ineligible for election to any office at such meeting. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
In order for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to the Secretary at the Corporation's principal executive offices not less than 120 days or more than 180 days prior to the first anniversary (the "Anniversary") of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders. However, if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 30 days after the Anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, then notice by the shareholder to be timely must be delivered to the Secretary at the Corporation's principal executive offices not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90
Section 2.10. Stockholder Proposals at Annual Meetings.
th
day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 15
th
day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business the stockholder desires to bring before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of the stockholder proposing such business, (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are beneficially owned by the stockholder, and (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business.
The Chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.10, and if the Chairman should so determine he or she shall so declare to the meeting, and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
Nothing in this Section 2.10 shall affect the right of a stockholder to request inclusion of a proposal in the Corporation's proxy statement to the extent that such right is provided by an applicable law.
No action that is required to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be effected by written consent of stockholders in lieu of a meeting.
Section 2.11. No Action By Consent of Stockholders.
The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the
Section 2.12. Conduct of Meetings.
 
proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
The Board of Directors by resolution may appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Section 2.13 Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls.
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these By-laws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-laws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 3.1. General Powers.
The Board of Directors shall consist of one or more members, the number to be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. Directors need not be stockholders.
Section 3.2. Number; Qualifications.
At the first annual meeting of stockholders and at each annual meeting thereafter, the stockholders shall elect directors by a majority of the votes cast unless the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, in which case the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the shares
Section 3.3. Election; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies.
 
represented in person or by proxy at such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. A majority of votes cast means that the number of shares entitled to vote on the election of directors and represented in person or by proxy at such meeting casting their vote "for" a director must exceed the number of such votes cast "against" that director. If a nominee for director, who is not serving as a director of the Corporation at the time of such election, does not receive a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, such nominee shall not be elected. If a nominee for director, who is serving as a director of the Corporation at the time of such election, does not receive a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, such nominee shall tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors. The Nominating and Governance Committee shall then make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation. The Board of Directors will act on the Nominating and Governance Committee's recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the reasons for it within 90 days from the date that the election results are certified. The director who tenders his or resignation will not participate in the Board's decision.
Each director shall hold office for a term of one year or until such time as his successor is elected and qualified. Any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of shares then entitled to vote at the election of directors. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless the notice specifies a later time for that resignation to become effective. Any newly created directorship resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, failure to receive a majority of the votes cast at an election of directors, removal from office or any other cause may be filled by the affirmative vote of the remaining members of the Board of Directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and each director so elected shall hold office until the expiration of the term of office of the director whom he has replaced or until his successor is elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine, and if so determined notices thereof need not be given.
Section 3.4. Regular Meetings.
Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Lead Independent Director, or any two members of the Board of Directors. Notice of the time and place of a special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be delivered by the person or persons calling the meeting personally, by facsimile or by telephone to each director or sent by first-class mail, telegram, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that directors' address as it is shown on the records of the Corporation. If the notice is mailed, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least 4 days before the time of the holding of the meeting. If the notice is delivered personally or by
Section 3.5. Special Meetings.
 
telephone or telegraph, it shall be delivered at least 48 hours before the time of the holding of the special meeting. If by facsimile transmission, such notice shall be transmitted at least 24 hours before the time of holding of the special meeting. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose or purposes of the special meeting or the place of the special meeting, if the meeting is to be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting thereof by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this by-law shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 3.6. Telephonic Meetings Permitted.
At all meetings of the Board of Directors fifty percent (50%) of the whole Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Except in cases in which the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws otherwise provide, the vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. A majority of the directors present, whether or not a quorum, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place. Notice of the time and place of holding an adjourned meeting need not be given unless the meeting is adjourned for more than 24 hours. If the meeting is adjourned for more than 24 hours, then notice of the time and place of the adjourned meeting shall be given to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment in the manner specified in Section 3.5.
Section 3.7. Quorum; Vote Required for Action; Adjournment.
Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the President, or in their absence by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 3.8. Organization.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or such committee.
Section 3.9. Informal Action by Directors.
Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. This Section 3.10 shall not be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and receiving compensation for those services.
Section 3.10. Fees and Compensation of Directors.
 
To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the Corporation or of its subsidiary, including any officer or employee who is a director of the Corporation or its subsidiary, whenever, in the judgment of the directors, such loan, guaranty or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the Corporation. To the extent permitted by applicable law, such loan, guaranty or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the Board of Directors shall approve, including without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the Corporation. Nothing in this section contained shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the Corporation at common law or under any statutes.
Section 3.11. Approval of Loans to Officers.
The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it.
Section 4.1. Committees.
Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board of Directors may make, alter and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of such rules each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to Article III of these By-laws.
Section 4.2. Committee Rules.
The officers of the Corporation shall be a president, a secretary, and a chief financial officer. The Corporation may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, a chairman of the board, one or more vice presidents, one or more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these By-laws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Section 5.1. Officers.
 
The officers of the Corporation except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 or Section 5.5 of these By-laws, shall be chosen by the board, subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment.
Section 5.2. Election of Officers.
The Board of Directors may appoint, or may empower the president to appoint, such other officers as the business of the Corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as are provided in these By-laws or as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Section 5.3. Subordinate Officers.
Subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment, any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the board or, except in case of an officer chosen by the Board of Directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors.
Section 5.4. Removal and Resignation of Officers.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Corporation. Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice; and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the Corporation under any contract to which the officer is a party.
A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these By-laws for regular appointments to that office.
Section 5.5. Vacancies in Offices.
The chairman of the board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the Board of Directors and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or as may be prescribed by these By-laws. If there is no president, then the chairman of the board shall also be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in Section 5.7 of these By-laws.
Section 5.6. Chairman of the Board.
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the chairman of the board, if there be such an officer, the president shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and the officers of the Corporation. He shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a chairman of the board, at all meetings of the Board of Directors. He shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a Corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these By-laws.
Section 5.7. President.
 
In the absence or disability of the president, the vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform all the duties of the president and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president. The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors, these By-laws, the president or the chairman of the board.
Section 5.8. Vice Presidents.
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the Corporation or such other place as the Board of Directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors and shareholders. The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at shareholders' meetings, and the proceeding thereof.
Section 5.9. Secretary.
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the Corporation or at the office of the Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all shareholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates evidencing such shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors required to be given by law or by these By-laws. He shall keep the seal of the Corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by these By-laws.
The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings, and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.
Section 5.10. Chief Financial Officer.
The chief financial officer shall deposit all money and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors. He shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the president and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these By-laws.
 
Every holder of stock shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation certifying the number of shares owned by him in the Corporation. Any of or all the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 6.1. Certificates.
The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Section 6.2. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates.
The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding") by reason of the fact that he, or a person for whom he is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another Corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such person. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Corporation shall be required to indemnify a person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if the proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Section 7.1. Right to Indemnification.
The Corporation shall pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, provided, however, that the payment of expenses incurred by a director or officer in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the director or officer to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article VII or otherwise.
Section 7.2. Prepayment of Expenses.
 
If a claim for indemnification or payment of expenses under this Article VII is not paid in full within 60 days after a written claim therefor has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the claimant was not entitled to the requested indemnification or payment of expenses under applicable law.
Section 7.3. Claims.
The rights conferred on any person by this Article VII shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Section 7.4. Non-Exclusivity of Rights.
The Corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify any person who was or is serving at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity shall be reduced by any amount such person may collect as indemnification from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit enterprise.
Section 7.5. Other Indemnification.
Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article VII shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any person in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
Section 7.6. Amendment or Repeal.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 8.1. Fiscal Year.
The corporate seal shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 8.2. Seal.
Any written waiver of notice, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors, or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
Section 8.3. Waiver of Notice of Meetings of Stockholders, Directors and Committees.
 
No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose, if: (1) the material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (2) the material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (3) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Section 8.4. Interested Directors; Quorum.
Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account, and minute books, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards, magnetic tape, photographs, microphotographs, or any other information storage device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time.
Section 8.5. Form of Records.
These By-laws may be altered or repealed, and new By-laws made, by the Board of Directors, but the stockholders may make additional by-laws and may alter and repeal any by-laws whether adopted by them or otherwise.
Section 8.6. Amendment of Bylaws.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ:ALTR) today announced that its board of directors voted on March 13 to amend the company's bylaws to provide that directors will be elected by a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders. Under this majority vote standard, a director who does not receive a majority of the votes cast will tender his or her resignation to the board of directors, and the nominating and governance committee will make a recommendation to the board of directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation. The board of directors will act on the nominating and governance committee's recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the reasons for it within 90 days from the date that the election results are certified. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the board's decision. In the case of a contested election, directors will be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders.
San Jose, Calif., March 15, 2006
About Altera
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ:ALTR) is the world's pioneer in system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions. Combining programmable logic technology with software tools, intellectual property and technical services, Altera provides high-value programmable solutions to approximately 14,000 customers worldwide. More information is available at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.


