FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20060306164702.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On March 6, 2006, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing the planned retirement of Nathan M. Sarkisian, senior vice president and chief financial officer, by the end of 2006. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 6, 2006
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
., March 6, 2006  Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) today announced that Nathan M. Sarkisian, 47, senior vice president and chief financial officer, intends to retire by the end of 2006. His replacement has not been named. Mr. Sarkisian will continue in his current position until a new chief financial officer is named and will remain with the company for some time thereafter to assist in the transition.
San Jose, Calif
"Nate has made countless contributions to Altera's success over his 14 year career and has served for nearly eleven years as our chief financial officer. His presence and his tireless efforts have touched all of Altera. I wish Nate the best as he transitions to the next phase of his life," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board.
About Altera
Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) is the world's pioneer of system-on-a-programmable-chip (SOPC) solutions. Combining programmable logic technology with software tools, intellectual property, and technical services, Altera provides high-value programmable solutions to approximately 14,000 customers worldwide. More information is available at http://www.altera.com.
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.


