FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20061106162204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On November 6, 2006, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
, November 6, 2006  Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced third quarter 2006 sales of $341.2 million, up 2 percent from the second quarter of 2006 and 17 percent from the third quarter of 2005. New product sales increased 26 percent sequentially and were up 142 percent from the prior year's third quarter.
San Jose, Calif.
 
Third quarter 2006 net income, on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, was $87.4 million, $0.24 per diluted share, compared with net income of $77.8 million, $0.21 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2005. Non-GAAP net income, excluding the effects of stock-based compensation expense, was $97.8 million, $0.27 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2006.
 
As previously announced, Altera temporarily suspended its stock repurchase program in May 2006. As a consequence, the company did not repurchase shares during the third quarter. Altera ended the quarter with $1.6 billion in cash and investments.
 
"Healthy new product growth in the third quarter continues to demonstrate the appeal of our leading edge devices. All of the products in this category, including the HardCopy
device family, grew sequentially and set new sales records," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Altera's new product success over the past several years rests on unique programmable logic innovation that increases the attractiveness of our solutions and continues to add to our competitive strength."
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
 
In recognizing Altera, Huawei also noted Altera's overall quality and supply chain management. Delivering high levels of customer responsiveness is a key element in Altera's customer-centered business strategy and a significant contributor to Altera's FPGA market share gains over the past several years.
 
 
Business Outlook for the Fourth Quarter 2006
 
Altera provides guidance on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis, excluding stock-based compensation expenses. Inclusion of stock-based compensation charges in GAAP-based operating expense adds significantly to the volatility of actual versus expected expense due to volatility in our stock price, which we cannot predict. Additionally, these forecasts assume that the impact of the company's non-qualified deferred compensation plan will be nil.
 
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
 
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the fourth quarter of 2006. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
Altera's fourth quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on December 5.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "expects", "anticipates", or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release and comments relating to new products. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix
II, Stratix II GX, Cyclone
II, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, this release and accompanying financial tables contain non-GAAP financial measures to exclude the effects of the non-cash stock-based compensation expense and the related tax effects of SFAS 123 (R), "Share-based Payment." The non-GAAP financial measures are neither in accordance with, nor an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Accordingly, the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures included below should be carefully evaluated. Altera believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures, when shown in conjunction with corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to Altera's financial condition and results of operations. Altera management uses these non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP financial measures, to review Altera's financial performance. Non-GAAP reporting represents relevant and useful information that is widely used by financial analysts, investors and other interested parties in our industry. Altera's management believes this presentation is useful to investors in evaluating performance on a basis that is consistent and comparable with periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Since expensing stock-based compensation expense does not require cash expenditures by the company, the company's non-GAAP presentation that excludes these expenses may be a useful measure of the company's performance. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial results is provided on pages 6 to 8 of this release.
 
 
About Altera
 
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
 
 
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 


