FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20070905162907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 31, 2007, Altera Corporation. ("Altera") entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") by and among Altera, Citicorp USA, Inc., as administrative agent and swing line lender, Bank of America, N.A, as syndication agent, and the Other Lenders party thereto (the "Lenders").
The Credit Agreement provides for a $750 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Facility") that is scheduled to expire on August 31, 2012. Altera may also, upon the agreement of either the then existing Lenders or of additional lenders not currently parties to the Credit Agreement, increase the commitments under the Facility up to a total of $250 million through additional revolving credit commitments for an aggregate Facility of $1 billion, and/or extend the expiration date of the Facility annually for additional one year periods, subject to certain conditions. Altera may generally prepay the Facility in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty, subject to certain conditions. Repayments of the Facility may be reborrowed, up to the commitment. At this time, Altera has not borrowed any funds under the Credit Agreement.
The proceeds of the Facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including without limitation for the repurchase of shares of Altera's common stock.
The interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement will be based on either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Citibank N.A.'s "prime rate" as announced from time to time, or (ii) the London interbank offered rate plus a margin based on Altera's leverage ratio. Altera will pay a quarterly commitment fee during the term of the Credit Agreement which also varies depending on Altera's leverage ratio.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties as well as customary affirmative and negative covenants. Negative covenants include, among others, limitations on liens and limitations on incurrence of indebtedness by Altera's subsidiaries. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires that Altera maintain a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 and a ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA of not greater than 3.00 to 1.00.
The Credit Agreement also contains customary events of default. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the Lenders may declare the outstanding loans and all other obligations under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC acted as joint lead arrangers and book managers for the Facility.
Altera and its affiliates maintain various commercial and service relationships with certain of the Lenders and their affiliates in the ordinary course of business. In the ordinary course of their respective businesses, certain of the Lenders and their affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in commercial banking, investment banking, financial advisory or other services with Altera and its affiliates.
The description of the Credit Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On August 31, 2007, Altera entered into the Credit Agreement described in Item 1.01 above, which information is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
On September 5, 2007, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing a business update for the third quarter. A copy of the business update press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Effective upon the closing of the Credit Agreement on August 31, 2007, Altera's board of directors approved a 25 million share increase in the number of shares authorized for repurchase under Altera's share repurchase program. Combined with the remaining shares previously authorized, there are now 60 million shares authorized by the board of directors for repurchase. Altera intends to repurchase shares in the open market or through structured transactions. Year to date, Altera has repurchased 29.3 million shares at a cost of $651 million. Since the initiation of Altera's share repurchase program in 1996, the company has repurchased 123 million shares at a cost of $2.6 billion.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
This CREDIT AGREEMENT ("") is entered into as of August 31, 2007, among ALTERA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), CITICORP USA, INC. as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender (the "") and Bank of America, N.A. as Syndication Agent (the "")
Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
Administrative Agent
Syndication Agent
The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01 Defined Terms
"" means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of any business or division of a Person, (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or equity of any Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary of the Borrower).
Acquisition
"" means Citicorp USA, Inc. in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.13.
Anniversary Date
 
"" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
"" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon Consolidated Leverage Ratio, as set forth in the most recent Compliance Certificate received by the Administrative Agent pursuant to :
Applicable Rate
Section 6.02(a)
 
Any increase or decrease in the Applicable Rate resulting from a change in the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to ; , , that if a Compliance Certificate is not delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then Pricing Level 4 shall apply as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate was required to have been delivered and shall continue to apply until the first Business Day after such certificate is delivered (and thereafter the Pricing Level otherwise determined in accordance with this definition shall apply). The Applicable Rate in effect from the Closing Date through date when the first Compliance Certificate is required to be delivered pursuant to Section 6.02(a) shall be determined based upon Pricing Level 3.
Section 6.02(a)
provided
however
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this definition, the determination of the Applicable Rate for any period shall be subject to the provisions of .
Section 2.09(b)
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit E
 
"" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2006 and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
,
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.05
Section 8.02
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means Title XI of the United States Code entitled "Bankruptcy" as now and hereafter in effect, or any successor statute.
Bankruptcy Code
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Citibank as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by Citibank based upon various factors including Citibank's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Citibank shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
"" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
"" means a Committed Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the State of New York or the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
 
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
"" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time (such right, an "")), directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
option right
(b) during any period of 24 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors).
"" means Citibank N.A. and its successors.
Citibank
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
 
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrower pursuant to and (b) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" has the meaning specified in .
Committed Loan
Section 2.01
"" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit D
"" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period , without duplication, (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense, (iv) other non-recurring expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period, and (v) non-cash stock option compensation expense reducing such Consolidated Net Income for such period which does not represent a cash item in such period, in each case, except for foreign currency translation and remeasurement and unrealized investment gains and losses; and , without duplication, (b) the following to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Federal, state, local and foreign income tax credits of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period, and (ii) other non-recurring non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period or any future period except for foreign currency translation and remeasurement and unrealized investment gains and losses; , , that solely for the purpose of the computations of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio and the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio, if there has occurred an Acquisition or Disposition during the relevant period, Consolidated EBITDA shall be calculated, at the option of the Borrower, on a Pro Forma Basis (as defined below) pursuant to this definition.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
provided
however
For purposes of this definition, "" means, (i) with respect to the preparation of pro forma financial statements for the purpose of the adjustment to Consolidated EBITDA relating to any Acquisition and for any other purpose related to any Acquisition, a pro forma on the basis that (A) any Indebtedness incurred or assumed in connection with such Acquisition or consolidation was incurred or assumed on the first day of the applicable period, (B) if such Indebtedness bears a floating interest rate, such interest shall be paid over the pro forma period either at the rate in effect on the date of such Acquisition or consolidation or the
Pro Forma Basis
 
applicable rate experienced over the period, and (C) all income and expense associated with the assets or entity acquired in connection with such Acquisition or consolidation for the most recently ended four fiscal quarter period for which such income and expense amounts are available shall be treated as being earned or incurred by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a pro forma basis for the portion of the applicable period occurring prior to the date such Acquisition or consolidation has occurred without giving effect to any cost savings, except such cost savings as would be permitted in a pro forma financial statement prepared in compliance with SEC Regulation S-X; and (ii) with respect to the preparation of pro forma financial statements for purpose of the permitted adjustment to Consolidated EBITDA relating to any Disposition and for any other purpose related to any Disposition, a pro forma on the basis that (A) any Indebtedness prepaid out of the proceeds of such Disposition shall be deemed to have been prepaid as of the first day of the applicable period, and (B) all income and expense (other than such expenses as the Borrower, in good faith, estimates will not be reduced or eliminated as a consequence of such Disposition) associated with the assets or entity disposed of in connection with such Disposition shall be deemed to have been eliminated as of the first day of the applicable period.
"" means, as of any date of determination, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness, (c) all contractual, non-contingent obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (d) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations, (e) without duplication, all Guarantees (other than any Guarantee of treasury management credit provided by Lenders solely to facilitate cash-management and foreign exchange activities) with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) through (d) above of Persons other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and (f) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in clauses (a) through (e) above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Borrower or a Subsidiary is a general partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to the Borrower or such Subsidiary. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, "Consolidated Funded Indebtedness" shall not include credits or rebates given to customers of the Borrower in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice.
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
"" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, and (b) the portion of rent expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period under capital leases that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Charges
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four prior fiscal quarters ending on such date (b) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
to
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date(b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four fiscal quarters most recently ended.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
to
"" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses) for that period.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means a Borrowing.
Credit Extension
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Committed Loans or participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such failure has been cured, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute or unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
"" or "" means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
 
"" means any Material Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Material Subsidiary
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under ,  and  (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
Equity Interests
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any
ERISA Event
 
ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
"" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Loan, an interest rate per annum equal to (i) the offered rate (if any) appearing on the Telerate Screen which displays British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits of Dollars for a period equal to the Interest Period relating to that Loan at or about 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period with respect to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (ii) if the Administrative Agent is unable to access the Telerate Screen or if the relevant rate is not displayed, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of
Eurodollar Rate
 1
/
16
of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which each of the Reference Banks was offering to leading banks in the London interbank market deposits in Dollars of an equivalent amount and for such Interest Period at or about 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period with respect to each Eurodollar Rate Loan. For the purposes of this definition, "Telerate Screen" means the display on the Telerate Service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits in Dollars.
"" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.13.
Existing Maturity Date
 
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 1
/
100
of 1%) charged to Citibank on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
"" means the letter agreement, dated July 31, 2007, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers.
Fee Letter
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning specified in .
Granting Lender
Section 10.06(h)
"" means, as to any Person, any (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the
Guarantee
 
purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien). The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
"" means, collectively, any Domestic Material Subsidiary of the Borrower from time to time party to a Guaranty.
Guarantors
"" means a Guaranty made by any Guarantor in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, substantially in the form of .
Guaranty
Exhibit F
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
(b) all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
(c) net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
(d) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business and, in each case, either (i) not past due for more than 60 days after the date on which such trade account payable was created or (ii) if past due for more than 60 days after the date on which such trade account payable was created, then all such obligations in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $2,000,000 at any one time outstanding);
 
(e) indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
(f) capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations;
(g) all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person or any other Person, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference accrued and unpaid dividends; and
plus
(h) all Guarantees (other than any Guarantee of treasury management credit provided by Lenders solely to facilitate cash-management and foreign exchange activities) of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person. The amount of (i) any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date, and (ii) any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, "Indebtedness" shall not include credits or rebates given to customers of the Borrower in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice.
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
"" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice or, if available by all Lenders, such other period that is twelve months or less requested by the Borrower and consented to by all the Lenders; that:
Interest Period
provided
(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
 
(ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
"" has the meaning specified in .
IP Rights
Section 5.18
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means, collectively, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, in their capacities as joint lead arrangers and book managers.
Joint Lead Arrangers
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
Article II
"" means this Agreement, each Note, the Fee Letter, and any Guaranty.
Loan Documents
"" means, collectively, the Borrower and any Guarantor.
Loan Parties
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business or financial condition of the Borrower or the Borrower and
Material Adverse Effect
 
its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
"" means each Subsidiary of Borrower now existing or hereafter acquired or formed by Borrower which, on a consolidated basis for such Subsidiary and its Subsidiaries, (i) for the most recent Fiscal Year accounted for more than 5% of the consolidated revenues of Borrower and its Subsidiaries or (ii) as at the end of such Fiscal Year, was the owner of more than 5% of the consolidated assets of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, all of which shall be reflected on the financial statements of the Borrower for the period, or as of the date in question, adjusted for the pro forma effect of any Subsidiary acquired (or disposed of) by the Borrower during such period or concurrently with the date as of which such determination is made.
Material Subsidiaries
"" means the later of (a) August 31, 2012 and (b) if maturity is extended pursuant to , such extended maturity date as determined pursuant to such Section; , , that, in each case, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
Section 2.13
provided
however
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit C
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
 
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means, with respect to Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Borrower or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
"" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
"" means Citibank and Bank of America.
Reference Banks
"" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice or (b) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans have been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of a Loan Party. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to the Borrower's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
Restricted Payment
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" has the meaning specified in .
SPC
Section 10.06(h)
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b)
Swap Contract
 
any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Master Agreement
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
"" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.03
"" means Citicorp USA, Inc. in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
"" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.03(a)
"" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.03(b)
Exhibit B
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $50,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means $50,000,000.
Threshold Amount
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans.
Total Outstandings
"" means, with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
 
"" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
. With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions
(a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "." Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
include
includes
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
(b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Accounting Terms. (a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
1.03
Generally
except
 
(b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided that
(c) . All references herein to consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or to the determination of any amount for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis or any similar reference shall, in each case, be deemed to include each variable interest entity that the Borrower is required to consolidate pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 46  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities: an interpretation of ARB No. 51 (January 2003) as if such variable interest entity were a Subsidiary as defined herein.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
. Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04 Rounding
. All exhibits and schedules to this Agreement, either as originally existing or as the same may from time to time be supplemented, modified, or amended, are incorporated herein by reference.
1.05 Exhibits and Schedules
. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.06 Times of Day
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Within the limits
2.01 Committed Loans
Committed Loan
provided
however
plus
 
of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
Section 2.01
Section 2.04
Section 2.01
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans.
(a) Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Committed Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Loans; , , that if the Borrower wishes to request Eurodollar Rate Loans having an Interest Period other than one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "Interest Period," the applicable notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. four Business Days prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Lenders of such request and determine whether the requested Interest Period is reasonably available to all of them. Not later than 11:00 a.m., three Business Days before the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower (which notice may be by telephone) whether or not the requested Interest Period has been consented to by all the Lenders. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
provided
however
Section 2.02(a)
Section 2.03(c)
 
(b) Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of the Administrative Agent with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Citibank's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e) After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than seven Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
2.03 Swing Line Loans.
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and , , that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this
The Swing Line
Section 2.03
Swing Line Loan
provided
however
plus
provided
further
Section
 
, prepay under , and reborrow under this . Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan. Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
2.03
Section 2.04
Section 2.03
times
(b) . Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $500,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 2:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the first proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 3:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower.
Borrowing Procedures
Section 2.03(a)
Article IV
(c) .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
(i) The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in . The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
 
(ii) If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 2.03(c)(i)
(iii) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Swing Line Lender in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Swing Line Lender in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or funded participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan, as the case may be. A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.03(c)(i)
(iv) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in . No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.03(c)
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 4.02
(d) .
Repayment of Participations
(i) At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
 
(ii) If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
(e) . The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.03
(f) . The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
2.04 Prepayments.
(a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) two Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $2,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $2,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
provided
Section 3.05
(b) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $100,000.
provided
 
Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
(c) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall immediately prepay Loans in an aggregate amount equal to such excess.
2.05 Termination or Reduction of Commitments.
(a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate or cancel, in whole or in part, the unused portion of the Aggregate Commitments in excess of the outstanding aggregate Loans, or from time to time permanently reduce such portion of the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
provided
2.06 Repayment of Loans.
(a) The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans outstanding on such date.
(b) The Borrower shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date ten Business Days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Maturity Date.
2.07 Interest.
(a) Subject to the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate; and (iii) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate, or at any rate as the Borrower and the Swing Line Lender may agree.
plus
plus
plus
 
(b)(i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (and giving effect to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iii) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c) Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, each Eurodollar Rate Loan will be converted to a Base Rate Committed Loan immediately following the end of the current Interest Period with respect to such Eurodollar Rate Loan.
(d) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
2.08 Fees.
(a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the Applicable Rate as specified in the column captioned "Facility Fee", based on the Borrower's Consolidated Leverage Ratio, the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans), regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Committed Loans or Swing Line Loans remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears.
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
(b) .(i) The Borrower shall pay to the Joint Lead Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Other Fees
(ii) The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
 
.
2.09 Computation of Interest and Fees; Retroactive Adjustments of Applicable Rate
(a) All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Citibank's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.11(a)
(b) If, as a result of any restatement of or other adjustment to the financial statements of the Borrower or for any other reason, the Borrower or the Lenders determine that (i) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as calculated by the Borrower as of any applicable date was inaccurate and (ii) a proper calculation of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio would have resulted in higher pricing for such period, the Borrower shall immediately and retroactively be obligated to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable Lenders, promptly on demand by the Administrative Agent (or, after the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, automatically and without further action by the Administrative Agent or any Lender), an amount equal to the excess of the amount of interest and fees that should have been paid for such period over the amount of interest and fees actually paid for such period. This paragraph shall not limit the rights of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the case may be, under or . The Borrower's obligations under this paragraph shall survive the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
Article VIII
Section 2.07(b)
2.10 Evidence of Debt.
(a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
 
(b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
2.11 Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback.
(a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b)(i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
(ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
(e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
. If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share
2.12 Sharing of Payments by Lenders
pro rata
 
thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
provided
(i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
2.13 Extension of Maturity Date.
(a) . The Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) not earlier than 60 days and not later than 45 days prior to each anniversary of the Closing Date (the ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's Maturity Date for an additional one year from the Maturity Date then in effect hereunder (the "").
Requests for Extension
Anniversary Date
Existing Maturity Date
(b) . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice, in writing, to the Administrative Agent given not earlier than 30 days prior to the Anniversary Date and not later than the date (the "") that is 20 days prior to the Anniversary Date, advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (and each Lender that determines not to so extend its Maturity Date (a "") shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Notice Date) and any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree and any Non-Extending Lender shall have its commitment terminated on the then Existing Maturity Date (without regard to any extensions by other Lenders).
Lender Elections to Extend
Notice Date
Non-Extending Lender
 
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date 15 days prior to the Anniversary Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
Notification by Administrative Agent
(d) . The Borrower shall have the right to replace each Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees acceptable to the Administrative Agent (each, an "") as provided in ; that each of such Additional Commitment Lenders shall enter into an Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective as of the Anniversary Date, undertake a Commitment (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to such Lender's Commitment hereunder on such date), provided that the Extending Lenders shall have the right to increase their Commitment up to the amount of the Non-Extending Lenders' Commitment before the Borrower will be permitted to substitute an Additional Commitment Lender for a Non-Extending Lender.
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 10.13
provided
(e) . If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed so to extend their Maturity Date (each, an "") and the additional Commitments of the Additional Commitment Lenders shall be more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Anniversary Date, then, effective as of the Anniversary Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling one year after the Existing Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
Minimum Extension Requirement
Extending Lender
(f) . As a condition precedent to such extension, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Anniversary Date (in sufficient copies for each Extending Lender and each Additional Commitment Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such extension and (ii) in the case of the Borrower, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such extension, (A) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Anniversary Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), respectively, of , and (B) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. In addition, on the applicable Maturity Date of each Non-Extending Lender, the Borrower shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages of the respective Lenders effective as of such date.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
Article V
Section 2.13
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
Section 3.05
 
(g) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.12
10.01
2.14 Increase in Commitments.
(a) . Provided that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Borrower may from time to time, request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $250,000,000; that (i) any such request for an increase shall be in minimum increments of $25,000,000, and (ii) the Borrower may make a maximum of two such requests yearly. At the time of sending such notice, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
Request for Increase
provided
(b) . Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
Lender Elections to Increase
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Lender of the Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Swing Line Lender (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Borrower may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel, that the minimum Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee equals or exceeds $5,000,000.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
provided
(d) . If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
(e) . As a condition precedent to such increase, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) in the case of the Borrower, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, (A) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Article V
Section 2.14
Section 5.05
 
deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of , and (B) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. The Borrower shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
Section 6.01
Section 3.05
(f) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.12
10.01
3.01 Taxes.
(a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
(b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
(c) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender within 10 Business Days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Borrower
(d) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
 
(e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
Status of Lenders
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
(iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(f) . If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority
Treatment of Certain Refunds
 
with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, or such Lender, in the event the Administrative Agent, or such Lender, is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
provided
If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.02 Illegality.
If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates.
3.04 Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans.
(a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement contemplated by );
Section 3.04(e)
 
(ii) subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender); or
Section 3.01
(iii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will pay to such Lender, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) . If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender, or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
(c) . A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 Business Days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
(d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date that such Lender, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the one hundred eighty (180) day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
 
. The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, the Borrower shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
(e)
Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
provided
Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses.
(a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
(c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss of anticipated profits and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded. A certificate as to the amount of such payment delivered to the Borrower by such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 3.05
.
3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
 
Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
(b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
. All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
3.07 Survival
Article III
. The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
(a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
(i) executed counterparts of this Agreement and the Guaranty executed by each of the Borrower's Domestic Material Subsidiaries, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
(ii) a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note;
(iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party;
(iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and that each of the Borrower and the Guarantors is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where such Person is qualified to do business;
 
(v) a favorable opinion of Morrison & Foerster LLP, counsel to the Loan Parties, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, as to the matters set forth in and such other matters concerning the Loan Parties and the Loan Documents as the Required Lenders may reasonably request;
Exhibit G
(vi) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of each Loan Party either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party and the validity against such Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
(vii) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfiedand (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect;
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
,
(viii) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent and the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
(b) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid, including without limitation, the Borrower shall have paid to each Lender a fee equal to .075% of such Lender's aggregate Commitments.
(c) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
(d) The Closing Date shall have occurred on or before September 30, 2007.
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.03
Section 4.01
 
. The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to all Credit Extensions
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower and any Loan Party contained in or any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of .
Article V
Section 4.02
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
(b) No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
(c) The Administrative Agent, and, if applicable, the Swing Line Lender, shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
. Each Loan Party and each Material Subsidiary thereof, if any, (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own or lease its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i) or (c), to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.01 Existence, Qualification and Power
The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (i) any material Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or affecting
5.02 Authorization; No Contravention.
 
such Person or the properties of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) any material order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate in any material respect any Law.
No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.03 Governmental Authorization; Other Consents.
This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors' rights generally, and to the application of general principles of equity.
5.04 Binding Effect.
5.05 Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect.
(a) The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
(b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal quarter most recently ended prior to the Closing Date for which financial statements are available, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.
(c) Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(d) The consolidated forecasted balance sheet and statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries delivered to the Administrative Agent prior to the Closing Date were prepared in good faith on the basis of the assumptions stated therein, which assumptions were fair in light of the conditions existing at the time of delivery of such forecasts, and represented, at the time of delivery, the Borrower's best estimate of its future financial condition and performance.
 
. There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower after due and diligent investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.06 Litigation
Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.07 No Default.
Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
5.08 Ownership of Property; Liens.
Section 7.01
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Borrower has reasonably concluded that such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.09 Environmental Compliance.
The properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, in such amounts (after giving effect to any self-insurance as is customarily carried by companies of similar size, engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities whether the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary operates), with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies of similar size, engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary operates.
5.10 Insurance.
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, material state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, material state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is party to any tax sharing agreement.
5.11 Taxes.
 
.
5.12 ERISA Compliance
(a) Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws. Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification. The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
(b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c)(i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iii) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Section 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
. As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Part (a) of , and all of the outstanding Equity Interests in such Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by a Loan Party in the amounts specified on Part (a) of free and clear of all Liens. As of the Closing Date, Part (c) of identifies each of Borrower's Domestic Material Subsidiaries. As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no equity investments in any other corporation or entity other than (i) those specifically disclosed in Part(b) of and (ii) other equity investments having a book value individually of less than $1,000,000. All of the outstanding Equity Interests in the Borrower have been validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable.
5.13 Subsidiaries; Equity Interests
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
5.14 Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act.
(a) The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock, other than capital stock of the Borrower that will be cancelled promptly after the purchase thereof and will not be characterized as treasury stock.
 
(b) None of the Borrower, any Person Controlling the Borrower, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
. The Borrower has disclosed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished (whether in writing or orally) by or on behalf of any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
5.15 Disclosure
provided
Each Loan Party and each Subsidiary thereof is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, including without limitation, ERISA and Environmental Laws, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.16 Compliance with Laws.
The Borrower's true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on .
5.17 Taxpayer Identification Number.
Schedule 10.02
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, "") that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person, except where the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary infringes upon any rights held by any other Person, except where such infringement would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.18 Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc.
IP Rights
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
. Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.01 Financial Statements
(a) as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the fiscal year ended December 28, 2007), a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by a report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion (i) shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, (ii) shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit, and (iii) shall include in the footnotes thereto information regarding any Default that has occurred and is continuing, including the nature and status of such Default, of which such independent certified public accountants obtained knowledge during the course of their examination; and
(b) as soon as available, but in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2007), a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, certified by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Borrower to furnish the information and materials described in clauses (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(d)
. Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information
 
(a) upon the earlier of (i) 5 Business Days after the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , and (ii) (A) in the case of financial statements delivered pursuant to , 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, or (B) in the case of financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.01(b), 45 days after the end of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, in each case, (commencing with the delivery of the financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended on or around September 28, 2007), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.01(a)
(b) promptly after any request by the Administrative Agent or any request by a Lender made through the Administrative Agent, copies of any detailed audit reports, management letters or recommendations submitted to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board of directors) of the Borrower by independent accountants in connection with the accounts or books of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any audit of any of them;
(c) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Borrower may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
(d) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender acting through the Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or  or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, recognizing that no such request exists as of the Closing Date. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(c)
Schedule 10.02
provided
Section 6.02(b)
 
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Joint Lead Arrangers will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each, a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Joint Lead Arrangers, and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor."
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
10.07
. Promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices
(a) of the occurrence of any Default;
(b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including any of the following reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect: (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
(c) of the occurrence of any ERISA Event; and
(d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Each notice pursuant to this shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03
Section 6.03(a)
. Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all its obligations and liabilities, including (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and
6.04 Payment of Obligations
 
governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary; (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien (other than Liens permitted under Section 7.01) upon its property; and (c) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness.
(a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by ; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05 Preservation of Existence, Etc.
Section 7.04
. (a) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities.
6.06 Maintenance of Properties
. Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
6.07 Maintenance of Insurance
Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.08 Compliance with Laws.
a) Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be; and (b) maintain such books of record and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
6.09 Books and Records. (
Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to
6.10 Inspection Rights.
 
discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower; , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
provided
however
Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions for general corporate purposes not in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document, including without limitation for the repurchase of shares of Borrower's Equity Interests.
6.11 Use of Proceeds.
Notify the Administrative Agent at the time that any Person becomes a Domestic Material Subsidiary, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within 45 days), cause such Person to (a) become a Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the Guaranty or such other document as the Administrative Agent shall deem appropriate for such purpose and (b) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in clauses (iii) and (iv) of and favorable opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in clause (a)), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
6.12 Additional Guarantors.
Section 4.01(a)
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied:
. The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
7.01 Liens
(a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
(b) Liens existing on the date hereof and listed on and any renewals or extensions thereof, that (i) the property covered thereby is not changed, (ii) the amount secured or benefited thereby is not increased except as contemplated by , (iii) the direct or any contingent obligor with respect thereto is not changed, and (iv) any renewal or extension of the obligations secured or benefited thereby is permitted by ;
Schedule 7.01
provided
Section 7.02(b)
Section 7.02(b)
(c) Liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or levies not yet due (for the avoidance of doubt, the parties hereto agree that such taxes, assessments, charges or levies shall not be considered due until the last day on which they are payable without penalty) or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP;
(d) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's, statutory Liens and results of setoff of banks or other like Liens imposed by Law and arising in the
 
ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
(e) pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security or insurance legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(f) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(g) easements, rights-of-way, reservations, covenants, conditions, restrictions, defects and irregularities in title to any real property and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;
(h) any zoning or similar law or right reserved to or vested in any Governmental Agency to control or regulate the use of any real property;
(i) rights of tenants under leases and rental agreements covering real property entered into in the ordinary course of business of the Person owning such real property;
(j) Liens arising under repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, securities lending and borrowing agreements and similar transactions;
(k) Liens securing writs of attachment or similar instruments or judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under or securing appeal or other surety bonds related to such judgments;
Section 8.01(h)
(l) precautionary UCC financing statement filings made in connection with operating leases;
(m) Liens or rights of setoff arising under custodial agreements on securities held in such accounts securing fees, expenses and credit exposures incurred by the custodian thereunder in the performance of its services thereunder;
(n) Liens securing Indebtedness in respect of purchase money obligations for fixed or capital assets; that (i) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Indebtedness and (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed the cost or fair market value, whichever is lower, of the property being acquired on the date of acquisition; and
provided
(o) Liens securing Indebtedness of Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount which, together with Indebtedness of non-Guarantor Subsidiaries permitted pursuant to , does not exceed $100,000,000 at any time outstanding.
Sections 7.02(f) and (g)
 
. No Subsidiary (which is not a Guarantor) shall create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except:
7.02 Non-Guarantor Subsidiary Indebtedness
(a) Indebtedness under the Loan Documents;
(b) Indebtedness outstanding on the date hereof and listed on and any refinancings, refundings, renewals or extensions thereof; that (i) the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing and by an amount equal to any existing commitments unutilized thereunder and (ii) the terms relating to principal amount, amortization, maturity, collateral (if any) and subordination (if any), and other material terms taken as a whole, of any such refinancing, refunding, renewing or extending Indebtedness, and of any agreement entered into and of any instrument issued in connection therewith, are no less favorable in any material respect to the Loan Parties or the Lenders than the terms of any agreement or instrument governing the Indebtedness being refinanced, refunded, renewed or extended and the interest rate applicable to any such refinancing, refunding, renewing or extending Indebtedness does not exceed the then applicable market interest rate;
Schedule 7.02
provided
(c) Guarantees of the Borrower or any Domestic Material Subsidiary in respect of Indebtedness otherwise permitted hereunder of the Borrower or any Domestic Material Subsidiary;
(d) intercompany Indebtedness owed by Foreign Subsidiaries to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries made in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed $200,000,000, that each such debt is repaid within one year of its incurrence;
provided
(e) obligations (contingent or otherwise) of any Subsidiary existing or arising under any Swap Contract, that (i) such obligations are (or were) entered into by such Person in the ordinary course of business for the purpose of directly mitigating risks associated with liabilities, commitments, investments, assets, or property held or reasonably anticipated by such Person, or changes in the value of securities issued by such Person, and not for purposes of speculation or taking a "market view;" and (ii) such Swap Contract does not contain any provision exonerating the non-defaulting party from its obligation to make payments on outstanding transactions to the defaulting party;
provided
(f) secured Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount which, together with the unsecured Indebtedness permitted under clause (g) below and the Indebtedness of Borrower and its Subsidiaries for which Liens are permitted under , does not exceed $100,000,000 at any time outstanding;
Section 7.01(o)
(g) unsecured Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount which, together with the secured Indebtedness permitted under clause (f) above and the Indebtedness of Borrower and its Subsidiaries for which Liens are permitted under , does not exceed $100,000,000 at any time outstanding; and
Section 7.01(o)
 
(h) intercompany Indebtedness owed by any Subsidiary which is not a Guarantor to any Subsidiary which is not a Guarantor.
. The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
7.03 Fundamental Changes
(a) any Subsidiary may merge with (i) the Borrower, that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more other Subsidiaries, that when any Subsidiary Guarantor is merging with another Subsidiary which is not a Guarantor, the Subsidiary Guarantor shall be the continuing or surviving Person or such surviving Person shall execute and deliver a Guaranty in accordance with hereof;
provided
provided
Section 6.12
(b) any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or to another Subsidiary; that if the transferor in such a transaction is a wholly-owned Subsidiary, then the transferee must either be the Borrower or a wholly-owned Subsidiary; and
provided
(c) the Borrower may Dispose of any Equity Interest in a Subsidiary, and any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets if at least 75% of the proceeds therefrom shall be in the form of cash and assumption of liabilities and the net cash proceeds shall be reinvested in additional assets within one year of receipt of such proceeds.
. The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially similar, related, incidental or complementary thereto.
7.04 Change in Nature of Business
The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Borrower, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Borrower or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate, except for
7.05 Transactions with Affiliates.
(a) transactions between the Borrower and one or more Subsidiaries or between two or more Subsidiaries, in each case, permitted under ;
Section 7.02(d)
(b) transactions between the Borrower and one or more Subsidiary Guarantors or between two or more Subsidiary Guarantors; and
(c) transactions between two or more Subsidiaries which are not Guarantors.
 
The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Material Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that:
7.06 Burdensome Agreements.
(a) limits the ability
(i) of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments to the Borrower or any Guarantor or to otherwise transfer property to the Borrower or any Guarantor;
(ii) of any Subsidiary to Guarantee the Indebtedness of the Borrower; or
(iii) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens (other than Liens permitted under ) on property of such Person; , , that this clause (iii) shall not prohibit any Contractual Obligations that (A) represent or secure Indebtedness of a Foreign Subsidiary and are limited to the assets of the Foreign Subsidiaries; (B) are customary provisions in joint venture agreements and other similar agreements applicable to joint ventures and the Liens are applicable solely to such joint venture; (C) are negative pledges and restrictions on Liens in favor of any holder of Indebtedness permitted under but solely to the extent any negative pledge relates to the property financed by or the subject of such Indebtedness; (D) restrictions imposed pursuant to an agreement that has been entered into in connection with a transaction permitted pursuant to ; (E) are customary restrictions on leases, subleases, licenses or asset sale agreements otherwise permitted hereby so long as such restrictions relate to the assets subject thereto; (F) comprise restrictions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted pursuant to Section 7.02 to the extent that such restrictions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness; or (G) are customary provisions restricting subletting or assignment of any lease governing a leasehold interest of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and
Section 7.01
provided
however
Section 7.02
Section 7.05
that clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of shall not prohibit any Contractual Obligations that are binding on a Subsidiary at the time such Subsidiary first becomes a Subsidiary, so long as such Contractual Obligations were not entered into solely in contemplation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary; or
provided further
Section 7.06(a)
(b) requires the grant of a Lien to secure an obligation of such Person if a Lien is granted to secure another obligation of such Person.
The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly use the proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose, other than purchases of Equity Interests of the Borrower which will be immediately cancelled after such purchases.
7.07 Use of Proceeds.
 
7.08 Financial Covenants.
(a) . The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower to be less 3.00:1.00.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
(b) . The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at any time during any period of four fiscal quarters of the Borrower set forth below to be greater than 3.00:1.00.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
8.01 Events of Default.
(a) . The Borrower or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within three Business Days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan, any fee due hereunder (other than legal or other non-recurring fees for which the Borrower or such Loan Party, as applicable, has not received an invoice), or any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , , , or or , or any Guarantor fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 1 of the applicable Guaranty; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.01
6.02
6.03
6.05
6.10
6.11
6.12
Article VII
(c) . Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days after the earlier of (i) a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party having knowledge of such failure, or (ii) the Administrative Agent or any Lender having given notice to a Loan Party of such failure; or
Other Defaults
(d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any other Loan Party herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made, deemed made or deemed repeated; or
Representations and Warranties
(e) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment when due after giving effect to any applicable notice and cure periods (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, in
Cross-Default
 
each case, after giving effect to any applicable notice and cure periods, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) any counterparty under a Swap Contract terminates such Swap Contract as a result of an Early Termination Event (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by the Borrower or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount and the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, has not paid such Swap Termination Value on the due date thereof; or
(f) Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc.
(g) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h) . There is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary (i) one or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount (as to all such judgments or orders) exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
Judgments
(i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in
ERISA
 
an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
(j) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(k) . There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
8.02 Remedies Upon Event of Default.
(a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower;
(c) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate and the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
. After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03 Application of Funds
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders (including fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of any Lender) and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans ratably among the Lenders and in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fourth
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
.
9.01 Appointment and Authority
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Citicorp USA, Inc. to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
. The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.02 Rights as a Lender
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03 Exculpatory Provisions.
(a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or
 
percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender.
Sections 10.01
8.02
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
.
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.05 Delegation of Duties
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 10.04
Any resignation by Citicorp USA, Inc. as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Swing Line Lender, and (b) the retiring Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents.
. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such
9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent, Other Lenders and Margin Stock
 
documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. Additionally, each Lender acknowledges that it is not, and has not, relied directly or indirectly upon any Equity Interests of the Borrower that may be considered margin stock as collateral in extending its Commitment under the Loan Documents, and will not, be relying directly or indirectly on such Equity Interests as collateral in maintaining its Commitment and extending Loans hereunder.
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Bookrunners, Joint Lead Arrangers or Syndication Agent listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
9.08 No Other Duties, Etc.
In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim.
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.09
10.04
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
10.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization,
 
arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
. The Lenders irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Domestic Material Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder. Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty pursuant to this . The Administrative Agent will, at the Borrower's expense, execute and deliver to the applicable Loan Party such documents as such Loan Party may reasonably request to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty in accordance with the terms of this .
9.10 Guaranty Matters
Section 9.10
Section 9.10
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
10.01 Amendments, Etc.
provided
however
(a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
(b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment excluding mandatory prepayments of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(
)
(d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or (subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Documentor change the manner of computation of any financial ratio (including any change in any applicable defined term) used in determining the Applicable Rate that would result in a reduction of any interest rate on any Loan or any fee payable hereunder without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate;
Section 10.01
,
provided
however
(e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.12
Section 8.03
 
(f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder without the written consent of each Lender; or
(g) release a Guarantor from any Guaranty, except to the extent the release of any Guarantor is permitted pursuant to (in which case such release may be made by the Administrative Agent acting alone);
Section 9.10
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; (iii)  may not be amended, waived or otherwise modified without the consent of each Granting Lender all or any part of whose Loans are being funded by an SPC at the time of such amendment, waiver or other modification; and (iv) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided further
Section 10.06(h)
10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication.
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by electronic mail or telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
(i) if to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
(ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
 
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
(c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d) . Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the
Change of Address, Etc
 
Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
(e) .The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower; that such indemnity shall not be available as to any Indemnitee (as defined in Section 10.04(b) ) to the extent that such losses, costs, expenses and liabilities are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
provided
. No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender), and shall pay all fees and time charges for
Costs and Expenses
 
attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
(b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower or such Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
(c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing (but without affecting the Borrower's obligations with respect thereto), each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.11(d)
 
(d) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
(e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
(f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent and the Swing Line Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
. To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.05 Payments Set Aside
10.06 Successors and Assigns.
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section, or (iv) to an SPC in accordance with the provisions of subsection (h) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
(i) Minimum Amounts.
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B) in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $10,000,000 and increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
provided
however
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans;
Proportionate Amounts
 
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
(B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender;
(C) the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
(vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
(c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of
Register
 
the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.12
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
(f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
 
(g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
(h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (an "") the option to provide all or any part of any Committed Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Committed Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Committed Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Committed Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under . Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (including its obligations under ), (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Committed Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Committed Loan were made by such Granting Lender. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee in the amount of $3,500 (which processing fee may be waived by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Committed Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Committed Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
Special Purpose Funding Vehicles
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
Section 2.11(b)(ii)
Section 3.04
(i) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Citicorp USA, Inc. assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Citicorp USA, Inc. may, upon 30 days' notice to the Borrower, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor Swing Line Lender hereunder; , , that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Citicorp USA, Inc. as Swing Line Lender, as the case may be.
Resignation as Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
however
 
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Swing Line Lender agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives on a need-to-know basis (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process (in which case, if permitted by applicable Law, the Administrative Agent shall use reasonable efforts to notify the Borrower of such request), (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives) to any swap or derivative or similar transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Borrower and its obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder, (iii) any rating agency, or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the Issuing Bank or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality.
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Issuing Bank on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, provided that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws.
 
. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower or any other Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower or such Loan Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower or such Loan Party may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties hereto agree that each Lender and its Affiliates shall not have the right to set off against money market accounts, custodial accounts or securities investment accounts of the Loan Parties. The rights of each Lender and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.08 Right of Setoff
provided
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
10.09 Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
. All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered
10.11 Survival of Representations and Warranties
 
pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
. If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12 Severability
If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, a Lender (a "") refuses to consent to an amendment, modification or waiver of this Agreement that requires consent of 100% of the Lenders or 100% of the Lenders with Obligations directly affected, or if any other circumstance exists hereunder that gives the Borrower the right to replace a Lender as a party hereto, then so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and with the consent of the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
10.13 Replacement of Lenders.
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Non-Consenting Lender
Section 10.06
provided
(a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
(b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
(c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d) in the case of any such assignment relating to a Non-Consenting Lender, each assignee shall consent, at the time of such assignment, to each matter in respect of which such
 
Lender was a Non-Consenting Lender and the Borrower shall also require each other Lender that is a Non-Consenting Lender to assign its Loans and Commitments (For the avoidance of doubt, if a Lender is a Non-Consenting Lender solely because it refused to consent to an amendment, modification or waiver that required the consent of 100% of Lenders with Obligations directly affected thereby (which amendment, modification or waiver did not accordingly require the consent of 100% of all Lenders), the Loans and Commitments of such Non-Consenting Lender that are subject to the assignments required by this shall include only those Loans and Commitments that constitute the Obligations directly affected by the amendment, modification or waiver to which such Non-Consenting Lender refused to provide its consent); and
Section 10.13
(e) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
10.14 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc.
(a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (INCLUDING SECTION 5-1401 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK), WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD REQUIRE APPLICATION OF ANOTHER LAW.
GOVERNING LAW
(b) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
(c) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
(d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.15 Waiver of Jury Trial
. In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers, are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers, each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Joint Lead Arrangers has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth
10.16 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Joint Lead Arrangers has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
. Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
10.17 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
. Time is of the essence of the Loan Documents.
10.18 Time is of the Essence
. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents represent the final agreement AMONG the parties and may not be contradicted by evidence of prior, contemporaneous, or subsequent oral agreements of the parties. There are no unwritten oral agreements AMONG the parties.
10.19 Entire Agreement
 
the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
Date: ,
            
        
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Altera Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Borrower
The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
 
.
 
The Committed Borrowing, if any, requested herein complies with the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.01
 
 
EXHIBIT B
Date: ,
            
        
 
and as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Altera Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Borrower
The undersigned hereby requests a Swing Line Loan:
 
The Swing Line Borrowing requested herein complies with the requirements of the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.03(a)
 
 
EXHIBIT C
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the "") hereby promises to pay to or its registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender.
Borrower
                                
Lender
Agreement
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in of the Agreement with respect to Swing Line Loans, all payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
Section 2.03(f)
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. This Note is also entitled to the benefits of any Guaranty that may be executed in connection with the Agreement. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
 
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT D
Financial Statement Date:,
                    
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Altera Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Borrower
The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
                                                             
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal
year-end
financial statements]
1. The Borrower has delivered the year-end audited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Section 6.01(a)
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal
quarter-end
financial statements]
1. The Borrower has delivered the unaudited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Section 6.01(b)
2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by such financial statements.
3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and
 
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned, during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it, and no Default has occurred and is continuing.]
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned, during such fiscal period the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
4. The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in of the Agreement, and any representations and warranties of any Loan Party that are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection with the Loan Documents, are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this Compliance Certificate, the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of of the Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of of the Agreement, including the statements in connection with which this Compliance Certificate is delivered.
Article V
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
5. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on and attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedules 1
2
the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of , .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
                            
            
 
 
For the Quarter/Year ended ("")
                                
Statement Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Quarter/Year ended ("")
                                
Statement Date
 
 
EXHIBIT E
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each]
Assignment and Assumption
1
Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] "") and [the][each]
Assignor
2
Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ""). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]
Assignee
3
hereunder are several and not joint.]
4
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by [the][each] Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignor's][the respective Assignors'] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, the Swing Line Loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
            
    
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1. . [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][[the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2. . [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under ,  and  of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by [the][such] Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire [the][such] Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not
Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
    
 
taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to [the][the relevant] Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of [].
General Provisions
                                
confirm that choice of law provision parallels the Credit Agreement
 
EXHIBIT F
 
This is entered into as of [________ __], 20[__] by the undersigned (each a , and together with any future Subsidiaries executing this Guaranty, being collectively referred to herein as the ) in favor of and for the benefit of Citicorp USA, Inc., as agent for and representative of (in such capacity herein called ) the financial institutions () party to the Credit Agreement referred to below, and in favor of and for the benefit of the other Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined).
SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY
"Guarantor"
"Guarantors"
"Guarantied Party"
"Lenders"
A. Altera Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), has entered into that certain Credit Agreement dated as of August 31, 2007 with Lenders and Guarantied Party, as Administrative Agent for Lenders, and Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent (said Credit Agreement, as it may hereafter be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being the ; capitalized terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein being used herein as therein defined).
"Company"
"Credit Agreement"
B. Guarantied Party and Lenders are sometimes referred to herein as .
"Beneficiaries"
C. A portion of the proceeds of the Loans may be advanced to other Guarantors that are Subsidiaries of Company, and thus the Guarantied Obligations (as hereinafter defined) are being incurred for and will inure to the benefit of Guarantors (which benefits are hereby acknowledged).
D. Guarantors are willing irrevocably and unconditionally to guaranty such obligations of Company.
based upon the foregoing and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and in order to induce Lenders and Guarantied Party to make Loans and other extensions of credit thereunder, Guarantors hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
(a) Guarantors jointly and severally irrevocably and unconditionally guaranty, as primary obligors and not merely as sureties, the due and punctual payment in full of all Guarantied Obligations (as hereinafter defined) when the same shall become due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, demand or otherwise (including amounts that would become due but for the operation of the automatic stay under Section 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code). The term is used herein in its most comprehensive sense and includes any and all Obligations of Company, now or hereafter made, incurred or created, whether absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, whether due or not due, and however arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, this Guaranty and the other Loan Documents, including those arising under successive borrowing transactions
1. Guaranty.
"Guarantied Obligations"
 
under the Credit Agreement which shall either continue the Obligations of Company or from time to time renew them after they have been satisfied.
Each Guarantor acknowledges that a portion of the Loans may be advanced to it and that the Guarantied Obligations are being incurred for and will inure to its benefit.
Any interest on any portion of the Guarantied Obligations that accrues after the commencement of any proceeding, voluntary or involuntary, involving the bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, reorganization, liquidation or arrangement of Company (or, if interest on any portion of the Guarantied Obligations ceases to accrue by operation of law by reason of the commencement of said proceeding, such interest as would have accrued on such portion of the Guarantied Obligations if said proceeding had not been commenced) shall be included in the Guarantied Obligations because it is the intention of each Guarantor and Guarantied Party that the Guarantied Obligations should be determined without regard to any rule of law or order that may relieve Company of any portion of such Guarantied Obligations.
In the event that all or any portion of the Guarantied Obligations is paid by Company, the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall continue and remain in full force and effect or be reinstated, as the case may be, in the event that all or any part of such payment(s) is rescinded or recovered directly or indirectly from Guarantied Party or any other Beneficiary as a preference, fraudulent transfer or otherwise, and any such payments that are so rescinded or recovered shall constitute Guarantied Obligations.
Subject to the other provisions of this Section 1, upon the failure of Company to pay any of the Guarantied Obligations when and as the same shall become due, each Guarantor will upon demand pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, to Guarantied Party for the ratable benefit of Beneficiaries, an amount equal to the aggregate of the unpaid Guarantied Obligations.
(b) Anything contained in this Guaranty to the contrary notwithstanding, the obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty and the other Loan Documents shall be limited to a maximum aggregate amount equal to the largest amount that would not render its obligations hereunder subject to avoidance as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance under Section 548 of Title 11 of the United States Code or any applicable provisions of comparable state law (collectively, the ), in each case after giving effect to all other liabilities of such Guarantor, contingent or otherwise, that are relevant under the Fraudulent Transfer Laws (specifically excluding, however, any liabilities of such Guarantor (x) in respect of intercompany indebtedness to Company or other affiliates of Company to the extent that such indebtedness would be discharged in an amount equal to the amount paid by such Guarantor hereunder and (y) under any guaranty of subordinated indebtedness which guaranty contains a limitation as to maximum amount similar to that set forth in this Section 1(b), pursuant to which the liability of such Guarantor hereunder is included in the liabilities taken into account in determining such maximum amount) and after giving effect as assets to the value (as determined under the applicable provisions of the Fraudulent Transfer Laws) of any rights to subrogation, reimbursement, indemnification or contribution of such Guarantor pursuant to applicable law or pursuant to the terms of any agreement.
"Fraudulent Transfer Laws"
 
(c) Each Guarantor under this Guaranty, and each guarantor under other guaranties, if any, relating to the Credit Agreement (the ) that contain a contribution provision similar to that set forth in this Section 1(c), together desire to allocate among themselves (collectively, the ), in a fair and equitable manner, their obligations arising under this Guaranty and the Related Guaranties. Accordingly, in the event any payment or distribution is made on any date by a Guarantor under this Guaranty or a guarantor under a Related Guaranty, each such Guarantor or such other guarantor shall be entitled to a contribution from each of the other Contributing Guarantors in the maximum amount permitted by law so as to maximize the aggregate amount of the Guarantied Obligations paid to Beneficiaries.
"Related Guaranties"
"Contributing Guarantors"
The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder are irrevocable, absolute, independent and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance which constitutes a legal or equitable discharge of a guarantor or surety other than payment in full of the Guarantied Obligations. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, each Guarantor agrees that: (a) this Guaranty is a guaranty of payment when due and not of collectibility; (b) Guarantied Party may enforce this Guaranty upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default under the Credit Agreement notwithstanding the existence of any dispute between Company and any Beneficiary with respect to the existence of such event; (c) the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder are independent of the obligations of Company under the Loan Documents and the obligations of any other guarantor of obligations of Company and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against each Guarantor whether or not any action is brought against Company or any of such other guarantors and whether or not Company is joined in any such action or actions; and (d) a payment of a portion, but not all, of the Guarantied Obligations by one or more Guarantors shall in no way limit, affect, modify or abridge the liability of such or any other Guarantor for any portion of the Guarantied Obligations that has not been paid. This Guaranty is a continuing guaranty and shall be binding upon each Guarantor and its successors and assigns, and each Guarantor irrevocably waives any right (including without limitation any such right arising under California Civil Code Section 2815) to revoke this Guaranty as to future transactions giving rise to any Guarantied Obligations.
2. Guaranty Absolute; Continuing Guaranty.
Any Beneficiary may from time to time, without notice or demand and without affecting the validity or enforceability of this Guaranty or giving rise to any limitation, impairment or discharge of any Guarantor's liability hereunder, (a) renew, extend, accelerate or otherwise change the time, place, manner or terms of payment of the Guarantied Obligations, (b) settle, compromise, release or discharge, or accept or refuse any offer of performance with respect to, or substitutions for, the Guarantied Obligations or any agreement relating thereto and/or subordinate the payment of the same to the payment of any other obligations, (c) request and accept other guaranties of the Guarantied Obligations and take and hold security for the payment of this Guaranty or the Guarantied Obligations, (d) release, exchange, compromise, subordinate or modify, with or without consideration, any security for payment of the Guarantied Obligations, any other guaranties of the Guarantied Obligations, or any other obligation of any Person with respect to the Guarantied Obligations, (e) enforce and apply any security now or hereafter held by or for the benefit of any Beneficiary in respect of this Guaranty or the Guarantied Obligations and direct the order or manner of sale thereof, or exercise any other right or remedy that Guarantied Party or the other Beneficiaries, or any of
3. Actions by Beneficiaries.
 
them, may have against any such security, as Guarantied Party in its discretion may determine consistent with the Credit Agreement, and any applicable security agreement, including foreclosure on any such security pursuant to one or more judicial or nonjudicial sales, whether or not every aspect of any such sale is commercially reasonable, and (f) exercise any other rights available to Guarantied Party or the other Beneficiaries, or any of them, under the Loan Documents.
This Guaranty and the obligations of Guarantors hereunder shall be valid and enforceable and shall not be subject to any limitation, impairment or discharge for any reason (other than payment in full of the Guarantied Obligations), including without limitation the occurrence of any of the following, whether or not any Guarantor shall have had notice or knowledge of any of them: (a) any failure to assert or enforce or agreement not to assert or enforce, or the stay or enjoining, by order of court, by operation of law or otherwise, of the exercise or enforcement of, any claim or demand or any right, power or remedy with respect to the Guarantied Obligations or any agreement relating thereto, or with respect to any other guaranty of or security for the payment of the Guarantied Obligations, (b) any waiver or modification of, or any consent to departure from, any of the terms or provisions of the Credit Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any agreement or instrument executed pursuant thereto, or of any other guaranty or security for the Guarantied Obligations, (c) the Guarantied Obligations, or any agreement relating thereto, at any time being found to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect, (d) the application of payments received from any source to the payment of indebtedness other than the Guarantied Obligations, even though Guarantied Party or the other Beneficiaries, or any of them, might have elected to apply such payment to any part or all of the Guarantied Obligations, (e) any failure to perfect or continue perfection of a security interest in any collateral which secures any of the Guarantied Obligations, (f) any defenses, set-offs or counterclaims which Company may assert against Guarantied Party or any Beneficiary in respect of the Guarantied Obligations, including but not limited to failure of consideration, breach of warranty, payment, statute of frauds, statute of limitations, accord and satisfaction and usury, and (g) any other act or thing or omission, or delay to do any other act or thing, which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of a Guarantor as an obligor in respect of the Guarantied Obligations.
4. No Discharge.
Each Guarantor waives, for the benefit of Beneficiaries: (a) any right to require Guarantied Party or the other Beneficiaries, as a condition of payment or performance by such Guarantor, to (i) proceed against Company, any other guarantor of the Guarantied Obligations or any other Person, (ii) proceed against or exhaust any security held from Company, any other guarantor of the Guarantied Obligations or any other Person, (iii) proceed against or have resort to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of any Beneficiary in favor of Company or any other Person, or (iv) pursue any other remedy in the power of any Beneficiary; (b) any defense arising by reason of the incapacity, lack of authority or any disability or other defense of Company including, without limitation, any defense based on or arising out of the lack of validity or the unenforceability of the Guarantied Obligations or any agreement or instrument relating thereto or by reason of the cessation of the liability of Company from any cause other than payment in full of the Guarantied Obligations; (c) any defense based upon any statute or rule of law which provides that the obligation of a surety must be neither larger in amount nor in other respects more burdensome than that of the principal; (d) any defense based upon Guarantied Party's or any other Beneficiary's errors or
5. Waivers.
 
omissions in the administration of the Guarantied Obligations, except behavior that amounts to bad faith; (e) (i) any principles or provisions of law, statutory or otherwise, that are or might be in conflict with the terms of this Guaranty and any legal or equitable discharge of such Guarantor's obligations hereunder, (ii) the benefit of any statute of limitations affecting such Guarantor's liability hereunder or the enforcement hereof, (iii) any rights to set-offs, recoupments and counterclaims, and (iv) promptness, diligence and any requirement that any Beneficiary protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien or any property subject thereto; (f) notices, demands, presentments, protests, notices of protest, notices of dishonor and notices of any action or inaction, including acceptance of this Guaranty, notices of default under the Credit Agreement, or any agreement or instrument related thereto, notices of any renewal, extension or modification of the Guarantied Obligations or any agreement related thereto, notices of any extension of credit to Company and notices of any of the matters referred to in Sections 3 and 4 and any right to consent to any thereof; (g) any defense related to any decree or order of any jurisdiction; and (h) to the fullest extent permitted by law, any defenses or benefits that may be derived from or afforded by law which limit the liability of or exonerate guarantors or sureties, or which may conflict with the terms of this Guaranty.
As used in this paragraph, any reference to "the principal" includes Company, and any reference to "the creditor" includes Guarantied Party and each other Beneficiary. In accordance with Section 2856 of the California Civil Code (a) each Guarantor waives any and all rights and defenses available to it by reason of Sections 2787 to 2855, inclusive, of the California Civil Code. No other provision of this Guaranty shall be construed as limiting the generality of any of the covenants and waivers set forth in this paragraph. As provided below, this Guaranty shall be governed by, and shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws principles. This paragraph is included solely out of an abundance of caution, and shall not be construed to mean that any of the above-referenced provisions of California law are in any way applicable to this Guaranty or to any of the Guarantied Obligations.
Until the Guarantied Obligations (other than Unasserted Obligations) shall have been paid in full and the Commitments shall have terminated, each Guarantor shall withhold exercise of (a) any claim, right or remedy, direct or indirect, that such Guarantor now has or may hereafter have against Company or any of its assets in connection with this Guaranty or the performance by such Guarantor of its obligations hereunder, in each case whether such claim, right or remedy arises in equity, under contract, by statute (including without limitation under California Civil Code Section 2847, 2848 or 2849), under common law or otherwise and including without limitation (i) any right of subrogation, reimbursement or indemnification that such Guarantor now has or may hereafter have against Company, (ii) any right to enforce, or to participate in, any claim, right or remedy that any Beneficiary now has or may hereafter have against Company, and (iii) any benefit of, and any right to participate in, any collateral or security now or hereafter held by any Beneficiary and (b) any right of contribution such Guarantor now has or may hereafter have against any other guarantor of any of the Guarantied Obligations. Each Guarantor further agrees that, to the extent the agreement to withhold the exercise of its rights of subrogation, reimbursement, indemnification and contribution as set forth herein is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be void or voidable for any reason, any rights of subrogation, reimbursement or indemnification such
6. Guarantors' Rights of Subrogation, Contribution, Etc.; Subordination of Other Obligations.
 
Guarantor may have against Company or against any collateral or security, and any rights of contribution such Guarantor may have against any such other guarantor, shall be junior and subordinate to any rights Guarantied Party or the other Beneficiaries may have against Company, to all right, title and interest Guarantied Party or the other Beneficiaries may have in any such collateral or security, and to any right Guarantied Party or the other Beneficiaries may have against such other guarantor.
Any indebtedness of Company now or hereafter held by any Guarantor is subordinated in right of payment to the Guarantied Obligations, and any such indebtedness of Company to a Guarantor collected or received by such Guarantor after an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and any amount paid to a Guarantor on account of any subrogation, reimbursement, indemnification or contribution rights referred to in the preceding paragraph when all Guarantied Obligations have not been paid in full, shall be held in trust for Guarantied Party on behalf of Beneficiaries and shall forthwith be paid over to Guarantied Party for the benefit of Beneficiaries to be credited and applied against the Guarantied Obligations.
Guarantors jointly and severally agree to pay, or cause to be paid, on demand, and to save Guarantied Party and the other Beneficiaries and their respective Affiliates harmless against liability for, (i) any and all costs and expenses (including fees, costs of settlement, and disbursements of counsel and allocated costs of internal counsel) incurred or expended by Guarantied Party or any other Beneficiary in connection with the enforcement of or preservation of any rights under this Guaranty and (ii) any and all costs and expenses (including those arising from rights of indemnification) required to be paid by Guarantors under the provisions of any other Loan Document.
7. Expenses.
No Beneficiary shall have any obligation, and each Guarantor waives any duty on the part of any Beneficiary, to disclose or discuss with such Guarantor its assessment, or such Guarantor's assessment, of the financial condition of Company or any matter or fact relating to the business, operations or condition of Company. Each Guarantor has adequate means to obtain information from Company on a continuing basis concerning the financial condition of Company and its ability to perform its obligations under the Loan Documents, and each Guarantor assumes the responsibility for being and keeping informed of the financial condition of Company and of all circumstances bearing upon the risk of nonpayment of the Guarantied Obligations.
8. Financial Condition of Company.
(a) Each Guarantor makes, for the benefit of Beneficiaries, each of the representations and warranties made in the Credit Agreement by Company as to such Guarantor, its assets, financial condition, operations, organization, legal status, business and the Loan Documents to which it is a party.
9. Representations and Warranties.
(b) Each Guarantor also represents and warrants that (i) since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (ii) there are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of such Guarantor after due and diligent investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (A) purports to affect or
 
pertain to this Guaranty or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (B) either individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Each Guarantor agrees that, so long as any part of the Guarantied Obligations shall remain unpaid, or any Lender shall have any Commitment, such Guarantor will, unless Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, perform or observe, and cause its Subsidiaries to perform or observe, all of the terms, covenants and agreements that the Loan Documents state that Company is to cause a Guarantor and such Subsidiaries to perform or observe.
10. Covenants.
In addition to any other rights any Beneficiary may have under law or in equity, if any amount shall at any time be due and owing by a Guarantor to any Beneficiary under this Guaranty, such Beneficiary or any of its Affiliates is authorized at any time or from time to time, without notice (any such notice being expressly waived), to set off and to appropriate and to apply any and all deposits (general or special, including but not limited to indebtedness evidenced by certificates of deposit, whether matured or unmatured) and any other indebtedness of such Beneficiary owing to a Guarantor and any other property of such Guarantor held by a Beneficiary or its Affiliates to or for the credit or the account of such Guarantor against and on account of the Guarantied Obligations and liabilities of such Guarantor to any Beneficiary under this Guaranty.
11. Set Off.
If all of the stock of a Guarantor or any of its successors in interest under this Guaranty shall be sold or otherwise disposed of (including by merger or consolidation) in a sale or other disposition not prohibited by the Credit Agreement or otherwise consented to by Required Lenders, such Guarantor or such successor in interest, as the case may be, may request Guarantied Party to execute and deliver documents or instruments necessary to evidence the release and discharge of this Guaranty as provided in Section 9.10 of the Credit Agreement.
12. Discharge of Guaranty Upon Sale of Guarantor.
No amendment, modification, termination or waiver of any provision of this Guaranty, and no consent to any departure by any Guarantor therefrom, shall in any event be effective without the written concurrence of Guarantied Party and, in the case of any such amendment or modification, Guarantors. Any such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which it was given.
13. Amendments and Waivers.
It is not necessary for Beneficiaries to inquire into the capacity or powers of any Guarantor or Company or the officers, directors or any agents acting or purporting to act on behalf of any of them.
14. Miscellaneous.
The rights, powers and remedies given to Beneficiaries by this Guaranty are cumulative and shall be in addition to and independent of all rights, powers and remedies given to Beneficiaries by virtue of any statute or rule of law or in any of the Loan Documents or any agreement between one or more Guarantors and one or more Beneficiaries or between Company and one or more Beneficiaries. Any forbearance or failure to exercise, and any delay by any Beneficiary in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall not impair any such right,
 
power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof, nor shall it preclude the further exercise of any such right, power or remedy.
In case any provision in or obligation under this Guaranty shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions or obligations, or of such provision or obligation in any other jurisdiction, shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
THIS GUARANTY AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF GUARANTORS, GUARANTIED PARTY AND THE OTHER BENEFICIARIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND SHALL BE CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION SECTION 5-1401 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK), WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES.
This Guaranty shall inure to the benefit of Beneficiaries and their respective successors and assigns.
ALL JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS BROUGHT AGAINST ANY GUARANTOR ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY MAY BE BROUGHT IN ANY STATE OR FEDERAL COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS GUARANTY EACH GUARANTOR ACCEPTS FOR ITSELF AND IN CONNECTION WITH ITS PROPERTIES, GENERALLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY, THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE AFORESAID COURTS AND WAIVES ANY DEFENSE OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS AND IRREVOCABLY AGREES TO BE BOUND BY ANY JUDGMENT RENDERED THEREBY IN CONNECTION WITH THIS GUARANTY. Each Guarantor agrees that service of all process in any such proceeding in any such court may be made by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to such Guarantor at its address set forth below its signature hereto, such service being acknowledged by such Guarantor to be sufficient for personal jurisdiction in any action against such Guarantor in any such court and to be otherwise effective and binding service in every respect. Nothing herein shall affect the right to serve process in any other manner permitted by law or shall limit the right of Guarantied Party or any Beneficiary to bring proceedings against such Guarantor in the courts of any other jurisdiction.
EACH GUARANTOR AND, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF THE BENEFITS HEREOF, GUARANTIED PARTY EACH AGREES TO WAIVE ITS RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF THIS GUARANTY. THE SCOPE OF THIS WAIVER IS INTENDED TO BE ALL-ENCOMPASSING OF ANY AND ALL DISPUTES THAT MAY BE FILED IN ANY COURT AND THAT RELATE TO THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS TRANSACTION, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION CONTRACT CLAIMS, TORT CLAIMS, BREACH OF DUTY CLAIMS AND ALL OTHER COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY CLAIMS. EACH GUARANTOR AND, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF THE BENEFITS HEREOF, GUARANTIED PARTY EACH
 
(I) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THIS WAIVER IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR SUCH GUARANTOR AND GUARANTIED PARTY TO ENTER INTO A BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP, THAT SUCH GUARANTOR AND GUARANTIED PARTY HAVE ALREADY RELIED ON THIS WAIVER IN ENTERING INTO THIS GUARANTY OR ACCEPTING THE BENEFITS THEREOF, AS THE CASE MAY BE, AND THAT EACH WILL CONTINUE TO RELY ON THIS WAIVER IN THEIR RELATED FUTURE DEALINGS, AND (II) FURTHER WARRANTS AND REPRESENTS THAT EACH HAS REVIEWED THIS WAIVER WITH ITS LEGAL COUNSEL AND THAT EACH KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY WAIVES ITS JURY TRIAL RIGHTS FOLLOWING CONSULTATION WITH LEGAL COUNSEL. THIS WAIVER IS IRREVOCABLE, MEANING THAT IT MAY NOT BE MODIFIED EITHER ORALLY OR IN WRITING, AND THIS WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS OF THIS GUARANTY. In the event of litigation, this Guaranty may be filed as a written consent to a trial by the court.
The initial Guarantor(s) hereunder shall be such of the Subsidiaries of Company as are signatories hereto on the date hereof. From time to time subsequent to the date hereof, Subsidiaries of Company may become parties hereto, as additional Guarantors (each an ), by executing a counterpart of this Guaranty. A form of such a counterpart is attached as Exhibit A. Upon delivery of any such counterpart to Guarantied Party, notice of which is hereby waived by Guarantors, each such Additional Guarantor shall be a Guarantor and shall be as fully a party hereto as if such Additional Guarantor were an original signatory hereof. Each Guarantor expressly agrees that its obligations arising hereunder shall not be affected or diminished by the addition or release of any other Guarantor hereunder, nor by any election of the Guarantied Party not to cause any Subsidiary of Company to become an Additional Guarantor hereunder. This Guaranty shall be fully effective as to any Guarantor that is or becomes a party hereto regardless of whether any other Person becomes or fails to become or ceases to be a Guarantor hereunder.
15. Additional Guarantors.
"Additional Guarantor"
This Guaranty may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original for all purposes; but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same instrument. This Guaranty shall become effective as to each Guarantor upon the execution of a counterpart hereof by such Guarantor (whether or not a counterpart hereof shall have been executed by any other Guarantor) and receipt by the Guaranteed Party of written or telephonic notification of such execution and authorization of delivery thereof.
16. Counterparts; Effectiveness.
17. Guarantied Party as Agent.
(a) Guarantied Party has been appointed to act as Guarantied Party hereunder by Lenders. Guarantied Party shall be obligated, and shall have the right hereunder, to make demands, to give notices, to exercise or refrain from exercising any rights, and to take or refrain from taking any action, solely in accordance with this Guaranty and the Credit Agreement; that Guarantied Party shall exercise, or refrain from exercising, any remedies under or with respect to this Guaranty in accordance with the instructions of Required Lenders,.
provided
 
(b) Guarantied Party shall at all times be the same Person that is Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement. Written notice of resignation by Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection 9.06 of the Credit Agreement shall also constitute notice of resignation as Guarantied Party under this Guaranty; and appointment of a successor Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection 9.06 of the Credit Agreement shall also constitute appointment of a successor Guarantied Party under this Guaranty. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent under subsection 9.06 of the Credit Agreement by a successor Administrative Agent, that successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Guarantied Party under this Guaranty, and the retiring Guarantied Party under this Guaranty shall promptly (i) transfer to such successor Guarantied Party all sums held hereunder, together with all records and other documents necessary or appropriate in connection with the performance of the duties of the successor Guarantied Party under this Guaranty, and (ii) take such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate in connection with the assignment to such successor Guarantied Party of the rights created hereunder, whereupon such retiring Guarantied Party shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Guaranty. After any retiring Guarantied Party's resignation hereunder as Guarantied Party, the provisions of this Guaranty shall inure to its benefits as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it under this Guaranty while it was Guarantied Party hereunder.
 
each Guarantor and Guarantied Party, solely for the purposes of the waiver of the right to jury trial contained in Section 14, have caused this Guaranty to be duly executed and delivered by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
This COUNTERPART (this ), dated ________ __, 20__, is delivered pursuant to Section 15 of the Guaranty referred to below. The undersigned hereby agrees that this Counterpart may be attached to the Guaranty, dated as of ________ __, 20__ (as it may be from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, the ; capitalized terms used herein not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed therein), among the Guarantors named therein and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Guarantied Party. The undersigned, by executing and delivering this Counterpart, hereby becomes an Additional Guarantor under the Guaranty in accordance with Section 15 thereof and agrees to be bound by all of the terms thereof.
"Counterpart"
"Guaranty"
the undersigned has caused this Counterpart to be duly executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of __________, 20__.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
EXHIBIT G
The matters contained in the following Sections of the Credit Agreement should be covered by the legal opinion:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
., September 5, 2007  Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced its mid-quarter update for the third quarter of 2007.
San Jose, Calif
The company reaffirms that it expects third quarter sales to be flat to 3 percent higher compared with the second quarter of 2007, in line with prior guidance.
As expected, the company's new product category is showing growth in comparison to the similar period in the prior quarter.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "expects", "anticipates", or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include third quarter sales guidance. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix II, Stratix II GX, Stratix III, Cyclone II, Cyclone III, Arria, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
 


