FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20071205162802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On December 5, 2007, the management of Altera Corporation (the "Company") committed to a plan to restructure its operations including the termination or restructuring of certain office leases and the elimination of certain employee positions. Impacted office lease locations include San Diego and Santa Cruz, California, Ottawa, Canada and Hong Kong (PRC). Management plans to eliminate approximately 65 positions from the Company's approximately 2,700 person headcount, including 17 employee positions eliminated earlier in the quarter. Nearly all of the changes will occur in the fourth quarter of 2007. The Plan is the result of the Company's efforts to lower its overall cost structure, bring expenses in line with its core business and enhance the near and long-term profitability of the Company.
The Company will incur restructuring-related charges of approximately $4-6 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The charges are comprised of lease termination payments of approximately $1-2 million and employee termination payments of approximately $3-4 million.
 
On December 5, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing a business update for the fourth quarter of 2007. A copy of the business update is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements concerning Altera's intention to terminate or restructure a portion of its leases and eliminate approximately 65 positions and Altera's expectations regarding the amounts of lease termination and employee termination payments. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this report involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, including, without limitation, unanticipated restructuring difficulties and inaccuracies in Altera's assessment of the amount and timing of charges, as well as other risks discussed in Altera's Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 27, 2007 and in Altera's other current and periodic reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on Altera's web site and are available from Altera without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this report, and, except as required by law, Altera does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 5, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
., December 5, 2007  Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced its mid-quarter update for the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, and as part of the company's ongoing operating expense reduction efforts, several restructuring steps are being announced.
San Jose, Calif
The company reaffirms that it expects fourth quarter sales to be flat to 4 percent lower compared to the third quarter of 2007, in line with prior guidance. Sales into the communications market are somewhat stronger than earlier guidance, while sales into the consumer market are somewhat weaker than anticipated. As expected, the company's new product category is showing growth in comparison to the similar period in the prior quarter.
Altera has repurchased 22.4 million shares of its common stock during the fourth quarter at a cost of $442 million. Altera has, year to date, repurchased 54.5 million shares at a cost of $1.16 billion. Repurchases in 2007 are part of a previously announced plan to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of the company's common stock through 2007 and the first half of 2008. The company now expects that fourth quarter diluted share count will be in the range of 335 million shares. Other income is now anticipated to be approximately $11 million.
Altera will incur restructuring charges of $4-6 million in the fourth quarter as a result of lease terminations and modifications and the elimination of approximately 65 positions from the company's 2,700 person workforce. The company estimates that annual savings from this restructuring will be approximately $10 million per year.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "expects", "anticipates", or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include fourth quarter sales guidance, share count and other income, projected restructuring costs, and restructuring cost savings. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix II, Stratix II GX, Stratix III, Cyclone II, Cyclone III, Arria, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of business between prototyping and production-based demand, unanticipated restructuring difficulties, inaccuracies in Altera's assessment of the amount and timing of charges, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
 


