FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20070723162348.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 23, 2007, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing a business update for the second quarter. A copy of the business update is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 23, 2007
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
., July 23, 2007  Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced second quarter 2007 sales of $319.7 million, up 5 percent from the first quarter of 2007 and down 4 percent from the second quarter of 2006. New products grew 26 percent sequentially.
San Jose, Calif
Second quarter 2007 net income was $80.5 million, $0.22 per diluted share, compared with net income of $77.3 million, $0.21 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2006.
Altera repurchased 14.1 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $316 million. Altera ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash and investments. Year to date, Altera has repurchased 21.2 million shares at a cost of $462 million.
The company is currently negotiating a financing commitment letter to provide a long-term credit facility of up to $750 million. If finalized, the company's current intention is to draw $500 million from this facility and use the proceeds to repurchase its common stock. The company would then intend to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of its common stock from the beginning of 2007 through the first half of 2008, up $500 million from the previous $1 billion repurchase plan.
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.04 per share payable on September 4, 2007 to shareholders of record on August 10, 2007.
"All of our new programmable devices and our HardCopy structured ASICs contributed to the new product strength we saw in the quarter. Following a two quarter industry correction, we are very pleased to see the resumption of sequential growth in the second quarter," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "The third quarter will see the roll-out of the Stratix III high-end FPGA devices, the arrival of production-qualified low-cost Cyclone III FPGAs, and the remainder of the Arria
GX FPGA family, all of which will add to our growth potential in the coming quarters."
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the Third Quarter 2007
 
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the third quarter of 2007. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's third quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on September 5, 2007.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release as well as comments relating to new products, initial shipment dates, anticipated product rollout schedules, intentions to secure financing, and share repurchase plans. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Arria GX, Cyclone II, Cyclone III, Stratix II, Stratix III, Stratix II GX, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, the continuance of suitable financial market conditions and the ability of the company to secure desired financing, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
 
 
(a) MSOH: Months Supply On Hand
Note:
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 


