FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20071018162838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated October 18, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 18, 2007
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 Altera Corporation today announced that Greg E. Myers, has joined the company's board of directors. Having spent 12 years at Symantec Corporation, Mr. Myers most recently served as vice president and chief financial officer until 2005. Prior to Symantec, Mr. Myers spent five years at Novell Corporation in various financial roles. Currently, he is a member of the board of directors at Packeteer Corporation. He holds an undergraduate degree from Cal-State University, Hayward and an MBA from Santa Clara University.
San Jose, Calif., Oct. 18, 2007
"Greg's financial background will be of great value to Altera as we continue to build efficiencies within the company," says John Daane, Altera's Chairman and CEO.
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.


