FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20070206143735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 6, 2007, Altera Corporation (the "Company") announced that Denis Berlan, its executive vice president and chief operating officer, will retire effective the end of March 2007. A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Berlan's pending retirement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated February 6, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 6, 2007
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 Altera Corporation (Nasdaq: ALTR) today announced that Denis Berlan, 56, executive vice president and chief operating officer, will retire effective the end of March 2007, after 17 years with the company. The position of chief operating officer, which oversees the engineering and operations departments, will be eliminated upon Mr. Berlan's departure.
San Jose, Calif., Feb. 6, 2007
"Largely due to Denis' commitment to excellence, Altera has established an impressive track record of innovation, quality and reliability," said John Daane, Altera's president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "On behalf of the company, I'd like to express my sincere appreciation for his many years of dedication and tremendous accomplishments and wish him all the best."
Mr. Berlan joined Altera in December 1989 as vice president, product engineering and was named vice president, operations and product engineering in October 1994. In January 1997, he was named executive vice president and chief operating officer. During his tenure, the company introduced many architecture and technology innovations, from MAX
CPLDs, which continue to lead the industry today, through the current product portfolio, which includes the Stratix
and Cyclone
FPGA series and HardCopy
structured ASICs. He was also responsible for establishing several key partnerships, including the highly successful foundry partnership with TSMC, which today is an industry model for collaboration.
"Leading and encouraging the innovative spirit of Altera engineers through the years has been the most gratifying part of my long career with the company," said Mr. Berlan. "I am very proud of the results we have achieved together; developing and manufacturing highly innovative products ranging from 1 micron to 45-nm technology. Altera's development and operations teams are among the very best in the industry. Their talent and passion will continue to extend Altera's track record of operational excellence."
 
Altera Chief Operating Officer Denis Berlan to Retire
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.


