FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20070423164106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 23, 2007, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 23, 2007
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
., April 23, 2007  Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced first quarter 2007 sales of $304.9 million, down 4 percent from the fourth quarter of 2006 and up 4 percent from the first quarter of 2006.
San Jose, Calif
First quarter 2007 net income was $75.1 million, $0.21 per diluted share, compared with net income of $58.7 million, $0.16 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2006.
Altera repurchased 7.2 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $145 million. Altera ended the quarter with $1.5 billion in cash and investments.
As previously announced, Altera will pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.04 per share on June 1, 2007 to shareholders of record on May 10, 2007.
"Although slowing conditions in the communications market and continuing customer inventory corrections muted our sales in the first three months of 2007, we anticipate that industry conditions will improve in the second quarter," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "We have begun delivery of the Cyclone
III family, the industry's first low-cost 65-nm FPGAs. A steadily growing number of designs are underway targeting our previously announced Stratix
III FPGAs, and we are seeing excellent overall customer traction. We remain on track to ship the first Stratix III FPGAs in the third quarter. In addition to providing greater performance and more features, both of these 65-nm families deliver significant and unique power-saving innovations that address critical power use challenges experienced by many of our customers."
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the Second Quarter 2007
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the second quarter of 2007. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's second quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on June 5, 2007.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release as well as comments relating to new products and anticipated product rollouts. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Cyclone III, Stratix III, Stratix II, Stratix II GX, Cyclone II, MAX
II and HardCopy
device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as
 
changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
 
 
 
 
(a) MSOH: Months Supply On Hand
Notes:
(1) On December 30, 2006, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). Implementation of FIN 48 resulted in a decrease in income taxes payable and an increase to retained earnings of approximately $2.3 million, and a reclassification from current to non-current income taxes payable of approximately $117 million.
(2) Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 


