FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20080715163137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 15, 2008, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 15, 2008
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
., July 15, 2008Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced second quarter sales of $359.9 million, up 7 percent from the first quarter of 2008 and up 13 percent from the second quarter of 2007. Second quarter net income was $98.0 million, $0.32 per diluted share, up from net income of $83.9 million, $0.27 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2008. Second quarter net income was up 22 percent and earnings per diluted share were up 43 percent compared with the second quarter of 2007.
San Jose, Calif
First half cash flow from operating activities was $226.8 million. Altera repurchased 65,000 shares of its common stock during the second quarter at a cost of $1.4 million. To date during the third quarter, Altera has repurchased an additional 526,000 shares at a cost of $10.4 million. Altera ended the second quarter with $1.2 billion in cash and investments.
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share payable on September 2, 2008 to shareholders of record on August 11, 2008.
"The second quarter exceeded our expectations for growth and profitability. Our 90-nm FPGAs were the largest growth drivers and 65-nm FPGA sales more than doubled sequentially, leading to FPGA growth of 18 percent year over year. The combination of solid top line growth, continued gross margin improvement, and lower than planned operating expense created significant operating leverage and a very strong operating margin," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "We are on schedule to ship the industry's first 40-nm Stratix IV FPGAs later this year, the result of work we began several years ago to accelerate the availability of 40-nm programmable logic devices. The architectural and process leadership that these products represent will further strengthen our competitive position and growth prospects over the next several years."
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress.
 
For the first time, Altera offers a transceiver-based ASIC option with the new HardCopy IV ASIC family. Stratix FPGAs deliver the benefits of FPGA-based hardware and software co-design and co-verificationsaving months in time to marketand the use of HardCopy ASICs delivers the benefits of ASICs in production. Quartus II development software fully supports these devices. First sample silicon for the Stratix IV GX family is expected in the fourth quarter.
 
 
Business Outlook for the Third Quarter 2008
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the third quarter of 2008. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's third quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on September 2, 2008.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release as well as comments describing expected 40-nm shipment timing, future competitive position and sales growth prospects. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products,
 
product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix IV, Arria GX, Cyclone III, Stratix III, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions, the company's share price, share repurchases, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
 
 
 
(a) MSOH: Months Supply On Hand
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 


