FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20080317143245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On March 14, 2008, Altera's President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, John Daane voluntarily elected to enter into a termination of severance agreement (the "Termination Agreement") with Altera. The Termination Agreement provides for the early termination of Mr. Daane's severance agreement with Altera entered into as of March 13, 2006 (the "Severance Agreement"). The terms of the Severance Agreement did not call for its termination until November 30, 2010.
The description of the Termination Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Termination Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The description of the Severance Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Severance Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.26 to Altera's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 17, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Termination of Severance Agreement (the "Termination Agreement") is entered into as of March 14, 2008 (the "Effective Date"), by and between John Daane (hereinafter referred to as "Executive"), and Altera Corporation (the "Company"). The Executive and the Company are hereinafter referred to as the "Parties."
the Parties entered into a Severance Agreement on March 13, 2006, made effective as of November 30, 2005 (the "Severance Agreement").
WHEREAS,
the Parties desire to terminate the Severance Agreement as more particularly set forth herein.
WHEREAS,
in consideration of the premises and the respective representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained herein, the Parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
 
 
 
 
each of the Parties has caused this Termination Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 


