FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20080416162858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 16, 2008, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
., April 16, 2008Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced first quarter sales of $336.1 million, up 4 percent from the fourth quarter of 2007 and up 10 percent from the first quarter of 2007. First quarter net income was $83.9 million, $0.27 per diluted share, up from net income of $65.5 million, $0.20 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2007.
San Jose, Calif
With the repurchase of 15.5 million shares in the first quarter of 2008, at a cost of $275 million, Altera has completed its previously announced $1.5 billion share repurchase plan. The plan was originally targeted for mid-2008 completion. Approximately 16 million shares remain available for additional repurchases under the existing board of directors' authorization. Cash flow from operating activities was $149.7 million. Altera ended the quarter with $995 million in cash and short-term investments.
Altera's board of directors has increased the company's quarterly cash dividend to $0.05 per share, up from the previous dividend of $0.04 per share. The board of directors has declared that the next quarterly dividend will be paid on June 2, 2008 to shareholders of record on May 12, 2008.
"Revenue growth was better than expected, as new products grew strongly," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "We are very pleased to see the quarter's improved operating efficiency which represents a significant step toward our long-term 30 percent plus operating margin target."
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress.
 
 
 
Arria GX devices are now shipping and available.
 
Business Outlook for the Second Quarter 2008
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's outlook for the second quarter of 2008. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the investor relations section of the company's web site at http://www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's second quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on June 3, 2008.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, customer business environment, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Arria GX,
Cyclone III, Stratix III, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions, the company's share price, share repurchases, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera's programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
 
 
 
 


