FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20080519151427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1 Press Release dated May 12, 2008
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  May 14, 2008
 

Editor Contacts:
Mark Plungy
Altera Corporation
(408) 544-6866                                                                                                
                                                                                                           
newsroom@altera.com
 
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced that Krish A. Prabhu, will join the companys board of directors on May 13, 2008.  Mr. Prabhu most recently served as chief executive officer, president, and director of Tellabs.  Prior to Tellabs, Mr. Prabhu spent 17 years of his 28-year career at Alcatel holding various engineering and management positions including chief operating officer of Alcatel and chief executive officer of Alcatel USA.  He holds an undergraduate physics degree from Bangalore University, India, an MSc in physics from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, and an MS and PhD in electrical engineering from the University of Pittsburgh.
San Jose, Calif., May 12, 2008 
 
Krishs experience in engineering, management and the communications market is a strong addition to Altera as the company continues to innovate and partner with our customers, said John Daane, Alteras president, chairman and CEO.
 
About Altera
Alteras programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets.  Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.  All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.


