FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20090127162412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 27, 2009, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 27, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
., January 27, 2009Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced 2008 sales of $1.37 billion, up 8 percent compared with $1.26 billion in 2007. New product sales increased 51 percent. Net income rose 24 percent to $359.7 million, $1.18 per diluted share, versus net income of $290.0 million, $0.82 per diluted share, in 2007.
San Jose, Calif
Fourth quarter sales were $314.5 million, down 3 percent from the fourth quarter of 2007 and down 12 percent from the third quarter of 2008. Fourth quarter net income was $83.0 million, $0.28 per diluted share, up from net income of $65.5 million, $0.20 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Altera repurchased 26.6 million shares of its common stock during 2008 at a cost of $473.2 million, with 9.0 million shares repurchased during the fourth quarter at a cost of $154.2 million. Altera ended the quarter with $1.2 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable on March 2, 2009 to shareholders of record on February 10, 2009.
"While we experienced the effects of a global economic-driven slowdown in the fourth quarter, we increased our market share in the programmable logic industry for the sixth year in a row. Net income growth substantially outpaced sales growth as a result of our sustained focus on improving efficiencies across the company. We will apply these simplification and cost reduction skills in this current challenging business environment to help protect shareholder value," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board." As previously committed, we shipped our first 40-nm Stratix IV FPGAs in the fourth quarter, placing us in a leadership position that will strengthen our competitive position in 2009 and beyond."
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the First Quarter 2009
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's first quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on March 2, 2009.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release, as well as statements regarding future competitive position and shareholder value creation. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Arria GX, Cyclone II, Cyclone III, Stratix II, Stratix II GX, Stratix III, Stratix IV, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in
 
economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more at .
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 


