FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20090714162559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 14, 2009, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 14, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
., July 14, 2009Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced second quarter sales of $279.2 million, up 6 percent from the first quarter of 2009 and down 22 percent from the second quarter of 2008. New products grew 16 percent sequentially.
San Jose, Calif
Second quarter net income was $47.4 million, $0.16 per diluted share, up from net income of $44.0 million, $0.15 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009 and down from $98.0 million, $0.32 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2008. Second quarter 2009 tax expense includes an additional $11.5 million charge as a result of a United States court ruling announced during the quarter related to worldwide equity compensation cost sharing. Altera was not a party to the case. The additional tax expense reduced second quarter earnings by $0.04 per diluted share.
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $90.9 million. Altera ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable on September 1, 2009 to stockholders of record on August 10, 2009.
"With a more than doubling of our 40-nm sales and surging 65-nm sales, new products resumed sequential growth and drove our top line results this quarter," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Combined, our three 40-nm FPGA families continue to set design win value records. We believe that these newest Altera FPGAs will be our most successful ever."
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress.
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the Third Quarter 2009
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's third quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on September 8, 2009.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release as well as the company's future 40-nm sales. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Arria GX, Arria II GX, Cyclone II, Cyclone III, Stratix II, Stratix II GX, Stratix III, Stratix IV, Stratix IV GX, Stratix IV GT, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes
 
in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's , and devices at .
FPGA
CPLD
ASIC
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 


