FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20091112153022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
99.1        Press Release dated November 10, 2009
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 12, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Editor Contacts:
Mark Plungy
Altera Corporation
(408) 544-6866
newsroom@altera.com
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced that Michael Nevens has joined the company's board of directors. Mr. Nevens spent 22 years at McKinsey & Company in various management positions including managing partner of the Global Technology Practice. He holds an undergraduate physics degree from the University of Notre Dame and an MS in industrial administration from the Krannert School of Management at Purdue University.
San Jose, Calif., November 10, 2009
"Mike's experience in technology and management is a strong addition to Altera as the company continues to expand its technology leadership and enable our customers to innovate and win in their respective markets," said John Daane, Altera's president, chairman and CEO.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's , and devices at . Follow Altera via , and .
FPGA
CPLD
ASIC
www.altera.com
Facebook
RSS
Twitter
Altera, the Altera logo, and all other words that are identified as trademarks are, unless noted otherwise, Registered, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and the trademarks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holders.


