FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20090421162353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2009, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 21, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
., April 21, 2009Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced first quarter sales of $264.6 million, down 16 percent from the fourth quarter of 2008 and down 21 percent from the first quarter of 2008. First quarter net income was $44.0 million, $0.15 per diluted share, down from net income of $83.0 million, $0.28 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2008 and $83.9 million, $0.27 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2008.
San Jose, Calif
First quarter 2009 results include a previously announced $5.2 million pretax restructuring charge. The company's first quarter 2009 tax expense also includes $2.0 million related to a recently enacted change in California tax law. The combined after-tax impact of these two items was $0.02 per diluted share.
First quarter cash flow from operating activities was $44.0 million. Altera ended the quarter with $1.2 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable on June 1, 2009 to stockholders of record on May 11, 2009.
"The first quarter business environment was better than we originally anticipated yet overall remains quite challenging. With double digit sequential growth, sales to wireless equipment customers, including those targeting new 3G deployments in China, were a bright spot in the quarter," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Our 40-nm FPGA sales are growing quickly, creating the fastest new product ramp in our history. The product roll out has been on schedule, reinforcing our first mover process advantage as well as providing customers access to the industry's highest density FPGAs and most advanced transceiver functionality."
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress.
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the Second Quarter 2009
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's second quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on June 1, 2009.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Arria GX, Cyclone II, Cyclone III, Stratix II, Stratix II GX, Stratix III, Stratix IV, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in
 
economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's , CPLD and ASIC devices at .
FPGA
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 
 
 


