FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20091221153258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 21, 2009, Altera Corporation (the "Company") announced the appointment of Ronald J. Pasek, 49, to serve as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Pasek is replacing James Callas, who has served in an acting capacity as the Company's Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 12, 2009. Mr. Callas will continue with the Company as Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller.
Mr. Pasek's appointment is effective December 21, 2009. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Pasek served as Vice President and Corporate Treasurer of Sun Microsystems, from February 2008 to December 18, 2009. He held a variety of other positions in finance at Sun Microsystems over a nineteen year period, including vice president of worldwide field finance, worldwide manufacturing and U.S. field finance. Mr. Pasek holds a BS degree from San Jose State University and an MBA from Santa Clara University.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Pasek's appointment is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the terms of his offer letter, Mr. Pasek will receive an annual base salary of $400,000, a hire on bonus of $250,000 payable upon the successful completion of a 45-day introductory period. If, within 12 months of employment, Mr. Pasek's employment is terminated by him voluntarily, or by the Company for breach of Company policy, then Mr. Pasek will be required to repay the full amount of the hire on bonus. Mr. Pasek will receive an option to purchase 75,000 shares of common stock, to be granted on February 1, 2010, which will vest, subject to his continuing employment and the provisions of the Company's standard form of stock option agreement, at a rate of 25% on the first anniversary of the grant date and monthly thereafter such that the option will be fully vested four years after the grant date. Mr. Pasek also will receive 80,000 restricted stock units ("RSUs"), to be granted on February 1, 2010. 40,000 of such RSUs will vest over a three-year period, subject to Mr. Pasek's continuing employment and the provisions of the Company's standard form of RSU award agreement, at a rate of 33% annually. The remaining 40,000 RSUs will vest over a four-year period, subject to Mr. Pasek's continuing employment and the provisions of the Company's standard form of RSU award agreement, at a rate of 25% annually. Mr. Pasek will be eligible to participate in the Company's Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan and Senior Vice President Bonus Plan. The Company will enter into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Pasek in the standard form of agreement offered to each of the Company's directors and executive officers. Mr. Pasek's compensation arrangements will be subject to evaluation and change from time to time as determined by the Company's compensation committee.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 21, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced that Ronald J. Pasek, a 19-year veteran of Sun Microsystems, joins the company as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Pasek will report to John Daane, Altera's chairman, president and CEO.
San Jose, Calif., December 21, 2009
"Ron brings a wealth of experience from one of the pioneers in the technology industry," said Daane. "His finance and international experience will be of great value to Altera as we continue to grow internationally and increase market share."
Pasek comes to Altera with an extensive finance background. Most recently at Sun, he served as vice president and corporate treasurer. He has also held a variety of vice president of finance positions at Sun, including worldwide field finance, worldwide manufacturing and U.S. field finance. Pasek holds a BS degree from San Jose State University and an MBA from Santa Clara University.
"Altera is a technology leader with a proven track record of operational excellence and customer service," said Pasek. "I look forward to joining Altera's strong leadership team and helping drive the company to even higher levels of performance."
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's , and devices at . Follow Altera via , and .
FPGA
CPLD
ASIC
www.altera.com
Facebook
RSS
Twitter
Altera, the Altera logo, and all other words that are identified as trademarks are, unless noted otherwise, Registered, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and the trademarks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holders.
Forward Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "expects", "anticipates", or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include projections about market share growth. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.


