FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20091013162336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 13, 2009, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
., October 13, 2009Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced third quarter sales of $286.6 million, up 3 percent from the second quarter of 2009 and down 20 percent from the third quarter of 2008. New products grew 7 percent sequentially.
San Jose, Calif
Third quarter net income was $56.7 million, $0.19 per diluted share, up from net income of $47.4 million, $0.16 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2009 and down from $94.7 million, $0.31 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2008. Third quarter 2009 results include a $4.8 million pre-tax charge relating to a previously announced restructuring.
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $196.4 million. Altera ended the quarter with $1.4 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable on December 1, 2009 to stockholders of record on November 10, 2009.
"Compared to our initial expectations, business conditions improved steadily during the quarter," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Sales of 40-nm devices tripled sequentially. Our first-to-market position and technology advantages at 40-nm continue to drive record design-win results."
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress.
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the Fourth Quarter 2009
 
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's fourth quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on December 3, 2009.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include Stratix IV shipment schedules and any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Arria GX, Arria II GX, Cyclone II, Cyclone III, Stratix II, Stratix II GX, Stratix III, Stratix IV, Stratix IV GX, Stratix IV GT, MAX II and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of
 
our business between prototyping and production-based demand, research and development schedules, changes to operating expense spending priorities, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's , and devices at .
FPGA
CPLD
ASIC
www.altera.com
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 


