FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20090611163502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 11, 2009, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing the resignation, effective June 12, 2009, of Timothy R. Morse, senior vice president and Chief Financial Officer. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On June 11, 2009, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing that, effective June 12, 2009, James Callas, vice-president finance and corporate controller, will serve as acting chief financial officer. Mr. Callas has been employed by Altera for over 20 years and has served in a variety of finance roles during his career. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 11, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
. June 11, 2009Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced that Timothy R. Morse, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will resign effective June 12 to pursue another opportunity.
SAN JOSE, Calif
A search for a replacement is underway.
James W. Callas, vice-president finance and corporate controller, will serve as acting chief financial officer.
As previously scheduled, Altera will announce its second quarter results on July 14, after the market close.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's , and devices at .
FPGA
CPLD
ASIC
www.altera.com


