FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20100303163326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
  On March 3, 2010, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing a business update for the first quarter. A copy of the business update is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Altera Corporation 101 Innovation Drive San Jose, CA 95134 Phone: 408-544-7000
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced that, based on quarter-to-date results and the company's outlook for the remainder of the quarter, first quarter revenue is now expected to be up 7 to 10 percent sequentially. The company's previous guidance was for sequential growth of 5 to 10 percent.
San Jose, Calif., March 3, 2010
The company expects solid growth from new products in the first quarter. All four vertical market segments are likely to report sequential improvements. Growth continues in the telecom and wireless market segment as communications equipment manufacturers respond to ongoing Asian demand.
The company will announce first quarter results after the market close on April 20, 2010.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will", "expects", "anticipates", or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include the company's expected first quarter sales and the sales outlook for each of the company's market segments. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, changes in global economic conditions, customer business environment, the pace of Asian telecommunications deployments, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including the Stratix II, Stratix II GX, Stratix III, Stratix IV, Stratix IV GX, Stratix IV GT, Cyclone II, Cyclone III, ArriaGX, Arria II GX, MAX II and HardCopy device families, the rate of turns business in the remainder of the quarter, product availability, and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's web site and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's , and devices at . Follow Altera via , and .
FPGA
CPLD
ASIC
www.altera.com
Facebook
RSS
Twitter
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.


