FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20100720163436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 20, 2010, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 5.
02(b)
. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
After 22 years at the company, James W. Callas, Vice President, Finance and Controller, will leave Altera Corporation effective August 6, 2010.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Press release dated July 20, 2010
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 20, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
., July 20, 2010Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced second quarter sales of $469.3 million, up 17 percent from the first quarter of 2010 and up 68 percent from the second quarter of 2009. New product sales increased 36 percent sequentially. Second quarter net income was $180.6 million, $0.58 per diluted share, compared with net income of $153.2 million, $0.50 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010 and $47.4 million, $0.16 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2009.
San Jose, Calif
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $378.6 million. Altera ended the quarter with $2.1 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Altera's board of directors has increased the company's quarterly cash dividend to $0.06 per share, up from the previous dividend of $0.05 per share. The board of directors has declared that the next quarterly dividend will be paid on September 1, 2010 to stockholders of record on August 10, 2010.
"In the second quarter, our 65-nm FPGA revenue was once again up sharply. Our newer 40-nm products grew even faster as they transition into the production-demand phase of their life," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Development work on our next-generation 28-nm FPGAs is reaching its final stages. The unique innovations in these FPGAs, including 28-Gbps transceivers, will extend the technology leadership that has benefited us so strongly at the 40-nm node."
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
Business Outlook for the Third Quarter 2010
Conference Call and Quarterly Update:
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The webcast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
Altera's third quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on September 7, 2010.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release, and the potential for continued technology leadership at 28 nm. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including Arria II, Cyclone III, Stratix III, Stratix IV, and Stratix V FPGAs, MAX II CPLDs and HardCopy device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange
 
Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's , and devices at . Follow Altera via , and .
FPGA
CPLD
ASIC
www.altera.com
Facebook
RSS
Twitter
Altera, The Programmable Solutions Company, the stylized Altera logo, specific device designations and all other words that are identified as trademarks and/or service marks are, unless noted otherwise, the trademarks and service marks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holder.
 
Notes:
 
 
 
Product Category Description


