FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20101019161912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securit ies Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 19, 2010
 
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 19, 2010, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
99.1 Press release dated October 19, 2010
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 19, 2010
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
   
Description
 
99.1 
    
Press release dated October 19, 2010
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALTERA ANNOUNCES RECORD THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
San Jose, Calif
., October 19, 2010  Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced third quarter sales of
$527.5 million
, up
12 percent
from the second quarter of 2010 and up
84 percent
from the third quarter of 2009. New product sales increased
24 percent
sequentially. Third quarter net income was
$217.5 million
,
$0.69
per diluted share, compared with net income of
$180.6 million
,
$0.58
per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2010 and
$56.7 million
,
$0.19
per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2009.
 
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was
$646.5 million
. Altera ended the quarter with
$2.4 billion
in cash and short-term investments.
 
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share payable on December 1, 2010 to stockholders of record on November 10, 2010.
 
"The combination of a step up in telecom and wireless demand and stellar new product growth created another quarter of double-digit sales gains for Altera. The 53 percent sequential growth we saw in our 40-nm FPGAs demonstrates the attractiveness of Altera's FPGAs in today's marketplace," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "We are in the final stages of development for our initial 28-nm FPGAs and believe that the unique architectural f eatures and performance we offer will extend our current 40-nm technology leadership to this next process node."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the Fourth Quarter 2010
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call
 
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
 
Fourth Quarter Update, 2011 Guidance and Conference Call
 
Altera's fourth quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on November 29, 2010. In addition, the press release will contain Altera's 2011 guidance. Further, the company will schedule a conference call at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time on November 29, 2010 to discuss Altera's 2011 guidance and fourth quarter update. The web cast and replay will be publicly available and accessible through the Investor Relations section of the company's web site at www.altera.com.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release, the potential for continued technology leade rship at 28 nm, and the timing of the availability of the MIPS32 processor. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including Arria
II, Cyclone
III, Stratix
III,
Stratix IV FPGAs, MAX
II CPLDs and HardCopy
device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the compan y without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
3
 
 
 
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's FPGA, CPLD and ASIC devices at www.altera.com. Follow Altera via Facebook, RSS and Twitter.
 
###
 
 
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, NIOS, QUARTUS, STRATIX and all other words that are identified as trademarks are, unless noted otherwise, Reg. U.S. Pat. & Tm. Off. and/or trademarks of Altera Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. ARM, CORTEX are the trademarks of ARM Limited in the EU and other countries. Intel and Atom are trademarks of Intel in the U.S. and other countries. MIPS and MIPS32 are the trademarks of MIPS Technologies in the U.S. and other countries. All other product or service names are the property of their respective holders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
< /div>
$
 
5
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
 
6
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDAT ED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited, in thousands)
 
7
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
NET SALES SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
Product Category Description
 
 
 
 
8


