FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20110426162122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 26, 2011
 
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 26, 2011, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 26, 2011
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALTERA ANNOUNCES FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
San Jose, Calif
., April 26, 2011  Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced first quarter sales of
$535.8 million
, down
4 percent
from the fourth quarter of 2010 and up
33 percent
from the first quarter of 2010. New product sales increased
13 percent
sequentially. First quarter net income was
$224.1 million
,
$0.68
per diluted share, compared with net income of
$231.6 million
,
$0.72
per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2010 and
$153.2 million
,
$0.50
per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010.
 
First quarter cash flow from operating activities was
$297.0 million
. Altera ended the quarter with
$3.1 billion
in cash and short-term investments.
 
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share payable on
June 1, 2011 to stockholders of record on May 10, 2011.
 
"Despite the anticipated slow down in first quarter sales following a remarkable 2010 growth year, we experienced double-digit sequential growth in our 40-nm based devices, as these products are now entering the best part of their growth phase," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Our initial 28-nm Stratix V devices, the first high-end FPGAs at this advanced node, are now shippinggiving us additional capabilities to accelerate the displacement of ASICs and ASSPs."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook for the Second Quarter 2011
2
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Earnings Conference Call
 
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
 
Second Quarter Update
 
Altera's second quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on June 2, 2011.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section of this press release, accelerating ASIC and ASSP displacement, and Altera's plans for optically interconnected programmable devices. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, supply chain or demand impacts from the recent Japanese earthquake, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including Cyclone
IV, Arria
II, Stratix
V,
Stratix IV FPGAs, MAX
V CPLDs and HardCopy
IV device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
 
About Altera
3
 
 
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's FPGA, CPLD and ASIC devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via Facebook, RSS and Twitter.
 
###
 
 
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, NIOS, QUARTUS, STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
5
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
 
6
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited, in thousands)
 
7
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
NET SALES SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
 
Product Category Description
 
 
 
 
Note:
 
(1) Effective January 2011, the product classification (new, mainstream and mature & other) has changed. All prior period data has been adjusted to conform to the current classification. Data calculated under both the new and former classification are available in the investor relations section of the company's website at
www.altera.com
.
 
8


