FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20110915165332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 14, 2011
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d)    
On September 14, 2011, Altera Corporation (the Company) announced the election of Elisha W. Finney to serve as a new member of the Company's board of directors and audit committee, effective September 14, 2011. Ms. Finney is currently Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. Ms. Finney will participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2011 proxy statement. She will receive an annual cash retainer of $50,000 for her service on the board of directors and an annual cash retainer of $12,000 for her service on the audit committee. As a new non-employee director, Ms. Finney will receive a stock option grant of 40,000 shares upon first becoming a director. In connection with the election, the Company entered into an indemnification agreement with Ms. Finney, the terms of which are identical in all material respects to the form of indemnification agreement that the Company has previously entered into with each of its directors, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 26, 2008.
A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Finney's election is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
99.1 Press Release dated September 14, 2011
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated : September 14, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
       
Description
 

Elisha Finney Joins Altera Board of Directors
San Jose, Calif., September 14, 2011-
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced that Elisha Finney has joined the company's board of directors, effective September 14, 2011. Ms. Finney currently is the senior vice president and CFO of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. and serves on the board of directors for Thoratec Corporation. Prior to Varian Medical Systems, Ms. Finney held management positions at Fox Group and Beatrice Foods, Inc. She holds an undergraduate risk management and insurance degree from University of Georgia and an MBA from Golden Gate University.
"Elisha's experience in finance and risk management is a strong addition to Altera as we enter a new era of programmable solutions," said John Daane, Altera's president, chairman and CEO.
"I am pleased to accept Altera's invitation to serve on its board of directors." said Ms. Finney. "I applaud the company's history and performance as a leader in developing custom logic solutions across a very broad range of industries. I look forward to working with the board to help Altera achieve its near- and long-term goals."
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's
FPGA
,
CPLD
and
ASIC
devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via
Facebook
,
RSS
and
Twitter
.
###
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.


