FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20110603153114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 2, 2011
 
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(408) 544-7000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 2, 2011, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing a business update for the second quarter. A copy of the business update is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)    Exhibits.
 
 
99.1         Press Release dated June 2, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: June 2, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALTERA UPDATES SECOND QUARTER SALES GUIDANCE
 
San Jose, Calif
., June 2, 2011 - Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced updated second quarter 2011 sales guidance.
 
The company currently expects that sales for the second quarter will be in line with its previous guidance for flat to up five percent sequential growth. The company continues to believe that the Telecom and Wireless vertical market will be up sequentially, while the company's other vertical markets will be flat to down.
 
The company will announce second quarter results after the market close on July 19, 2011.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include the second quarter sales outlook. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, production yields, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including Arria
II, Cyclone
IV, Stratix
V, and Stratix IV FPGAs, MAX
II CPLDs and HardCopy
device families, supply chain or demand impacts from the recent Japanese earthquake, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
About Altera
 
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets.
Find out more about Altera's
FPGA
,
CPLD
and
ASIC
devices at
www.altera.com
.  Follow Altera via
Facebook
,
RSS
and
Twitter
.
 
###
 
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


