FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20110720084552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K/A
(Amendment No. 1)
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 20, 2011
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 19, 2011, Altera Corporation issued a corrected press release, a copy of which is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, such exhibit and the information set forth therein and herein shall be deemed "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
    
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K/A:
Exhibit No.
   
Description
 
99.1  Corrected press release dated July 19, 2011
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 20, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
   
Description
 
99.1     Corrected press release dated July 19, 2011

ALTERA ANNOUNCES SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
INCREASES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND
(CORRECTED VERSION)
San Jose, Calif
., July 19, 2011 
The following press release contains corrections to one section of the Net Sales Summary table that appears in Altera's earnings release issued earlier today. For the period ended July 1, 2011, the vertical market percent of sales data has been corrected. No other Net Sales Summary or earnings release information has been changed.
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced second quarter sales of
$548.4 million
, up
2 percent
from the first quarter of 2011 and up
17 percent
from the second quarter of 2010. Second quarter net income was
$214.6 million
,
$0.65
per diluted share, compared with net income of
$224.1 million
,
$0.68
per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2011 and
$180.6 million
,
$0.58
per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2010.
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was
$456.4 million
. Altera ended the quarter with
$3.3 billion
in cash and short-term investments.
Altera's board of directors has increased the company's quarterly cash dividend to $0.08 per share, up from the previous dividend of $0.06 per share. The board of directors has declared that the next quarterly dividend will be paid on September 1, 2011 to stockholders of record on August 10, 2011.
 
"This quarter marks a return to sequential growth following the mild correction we experienced in the first quarter. We expect more sales gains in the third quarter," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Early in the quarter we began shipping our Stratix V FPGA family, the industry's first high-end 28-nm FPGA. Our 28-nm FPGA families combine a tailored architecture, an optimal manufacturing process, and specific product features to give us continuing technology leadership that builds on the technology leadership and strong competitive position we established at 40 nm."
1
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
2
Business Outlook for the Third Quarter 2011
 
 
Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call
 
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
Third Quarter Update
 
Altera's third quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on September 6, 2011.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section or elsewhere in this press release. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, supply chain or demand impacts from the recent Japanese earthquake, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including Cyclone
IV, Arria
II, Stratix
V,
Stratix IV FPGAs, MAX
V CPLDs and HardCopy
IV device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
3
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's FPGA, CPLD and ASIC devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via Facebook, RSS and Twitter.
 
###
 
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, NIOS, QUARTUS, STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.
 
4
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
5
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
6
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited, in thousands)
7
ALTERA CORPORATION
NET SALES SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
Product Category Description
8


