FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20110907175032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 6, 2011
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(408) 544-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 6, 2011, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing a business update for the third quarter. A copy of the business update is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)    Exhibits.
 
99.1         Press Release dated September 6, 2011
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 7, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

ALTERA UPDATES THIRD QUARTER SALES GUIDANCE
San Jose, Calif
., September 6, 2011 - Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced updated third quarter 2011 sales guidance. The company currently expects third quarter sales to be in the range of down 3 percent to up 1 percent versus second quarter sales. Previous guidance was for sales growth of 2 percent to 6 percent.
Relative to initial guidance, demand is weaker in several vertical markets including Telecom and Wireless, particularly outside Asia, as well as Industrial Automation, Military, and Test as customers are moderating their purchases in light of macroeconomic uncertainty and other near term changes to their business environment. Despite this broader trend, Altera's new products will be up sequentially.
The company will announce third quarter results after the market close on October 20, 2011.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include the third quarter sales outlook and new product growth expectations. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, the rate of growth of the company's new products including Arria
II, Cyclone
IV, Stratix
IV, and Stratix V FPGAs, MAX
II CPLDs and HardCopy
device families, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's
FPGA
,
CPLD
and
ASIC
devices at
www.altera.com
.  Follow Altera via
Facebook
,
RSS
and
Twitter
.
###
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.


