FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20111020162849.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SE1CURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 20, 2011
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 20, 2011, Altera Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
99.1 Press release dated October 20, 2011
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated : October 20, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
       
Description
 

ALTERA ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
San Jose, Calif
., October 20, 2011  Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced third quarter sales of
$522.5 million
, down
5 percent
from the second quarter of 2011 and down
1 percent
from the third quarter of 2010. Third quarter net income was
$185.4 million
,
$0.57
per diluted share, compared with net income of
$214.6 million
,
$0.65
per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2011 and
$217.5 million
,
$0.69
per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2010.
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was
$739.2 million
. Altera repurchased 4.8 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $197 million. Altera ended the quarter with $3.3 billion in cash and investments.
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 per share payable on December 1, 2011 to stockholders of record on November 10, 2011.
 
"Customer reaction to changing global macroeconomic conditions reduced industry demand. Despite this near-term deceleration we saw further growth from our 40-nm products and are very pleased with the successful launch of our 28-nm FPGAs. With our development software publicly available since mid-2010, we are already shipping to initial production-based demand for 28-nm Stratix V FPGAs," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "There are more 28-nm products to be rolled out, including Altera's SoC FPGAs, which integrate a multi-core ARM A9 processor into our Cyclone V and Arria V FPGA fabric."
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
 
 
Business Outlook for the Fourth Quarter 2011
 
 
Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call
 
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
Fourth Quarter Update
 
Altera's fourth quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on December 8, 2011.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section in this press release. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including Cyclone
IV, Arria
II, Stratix
IV,
and Stratix V FPGAs, MAX
V CPLDs and HardCopy
IV device families, changes in the mix of our business between prototyping and production-based demand, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's FPGA, CPLD and ASIC devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via Facebook, RSS and Twitter.
 
###
 
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.
  
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited, in thousands)
ALTERA CORPORATION
NET SALES SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
Product Category Description


