FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20121023163556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 23, 2012
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On
October 23, 2012
, Altera Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On
October 15, 2012
, the Company's board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share. The quarterly dividend will be paid on December 3, 2012 to stockholders of record on November 13, 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
99.1 Press release dated
October 23, 2012
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
October 23, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
       
Description
 

ALTERA ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
San Jose, Calif
.,
October 23, 2012
 Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced third quarter sales of
$495.0 million
, up
6 percent
from the second quarter of 2012 and down
5 percent
from the third quarter of 2011. Third quarter net income was
$157.5 million
,
$0.49
per diluted share, compared with net income of
$162.7 million
,
$0.50
per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2012 and
$185.4 million
,
$0.57
per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2011.
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was
$460.5 million
. Altera repurchased 1.6 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $50.0 million. Altera ended the quarter with
$
3.7 billion
in cash and investments.
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share, to be paid on December 3, 2012 to stockholders of record on November 13, 2012.
"Despite uneven global economic conditions, Altera experienced relatively broad vertical market sequential growth with both our new and mainstream product categories performing well," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Our 28 nm opportunity pipeline exceeds that of any prior process node as FPGAs continue to displace ASICs. Altera is the only 28 nm FPGA supplier to offer production-qualified devices across our entire range of product families, which gives us clear advantage as we compete for design wins. Altera is the design-win value leader at 28 nm."
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
SELECTED THIRD QUARTER REVENUE AND RELATED RESULTS
                
ALTERA CORPORATION
NET SALES SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
Product Category Description
Business Outlook for the Fourth Quarter 2012
Sales and Income Statement
        
Vertical Market
                        
Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call
 
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
Fourth Quarter Update and 2013 Guidance
 
Altera's fourth quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on December 4, 2012. The release will also include Altera financial guidance for 2013. A conference call with the investment community will take place at 1:45 PM Pacific time on December 4, 2012, to review and comment on 2013 guidance.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our expectation of expansion in 28 nm FPGA opportunities, our ability to displace ASICs and ASSPs and our competitive position at 28 nm and our product developments at the 20 nm process node and their effect on the magnitude of our market opportunity, as well as any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section or elsewhere in this press release. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including Cyclone
V, Cyclone
IV, Arria
V, Arria
II, Stratix
V,
Stratix IV FPGAs, MAX
V CPLDs and HardCopy
IV device families, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's FPGA, CPLD and ASIC devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via Facebook, RSS and Twitter.
 
###
 
 
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.
 
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(Unaudited)
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited, in thousands)


