FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20120130172043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 26, 2012
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
    
(b)          
Effective January 26, 2012, Misha R. Burich no longer serves as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Altera Corporation (the "Company"). Dr. Burich remains an employee of the Company and serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, effective January 26, 2012.
(d)          
On January 26, 2012, the Company announced the election of Thomas H. Waechter to serve as a new member of the Company's board of directors and compensation committee, effective January 26, 2012. Mr. Waechter is currently President and Chief Executive Officer of JDS Uniphase Corporation. Mr. Waechter will participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2011 proxy statement. He will receive an annual cash retainer of $50,000 for his service on the board of directors and an annual cash retainer of $10,000 for his service on the compensation committee. As a new non-employee director, Mr. Waechter will receive a stock option grant of 40,000 shares upon first becoming a director. In connection with the election, the Company entered into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Waechter, the terms of which are identical in all material respects to the form of indemnification agreement that the Company has previously entered into with each of its directors, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 26, 2008.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Waechter's election is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
99.1 Press Release dated January 26, 2012
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated : January 30, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
       
Description
 

Thomas H. Waechter Joins Altera Board of Directors
San Jose, Calif., January 26, 2012-
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced that Thomas H. Waechter joined the company's board of directors on January 26, 2012. Mr. Waechter currently is the president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors of JDS Uniphase Corporation (JDSU) (NASDAQ: JDSU; and TSX: JDU). Prior to joining JDSU in 2007, Mr. Waechter held a wide variety of executive positions including chief operating officer at Harris Stratex Networks (now Aviat Networks, Inc.), president and chief executive officer at Stratex Networks, president and chief executive officer at REMEC Corporation and president and chief executive officer of Spectrian Corporation. Additionally, he held a number of executive level global positions during his 14 year career with Schlumberger Ltd. as well as a senior executive position with Asyst Technologies, Inc. Mr. Waechter holds a bachelor's degree in business administration from The College of William & Mary.
"Tom's diverse business and management experience is a strong addition to Altera as we enter a new era of silicon convergence with our programmable solutions," said John Daane, Altera's president, chairman and CEO.
"I am pleased to accept Altera's invitation to serve on its board of directors," said Mr. Waechter. There are unique opportunities in the industry for Altera's further growth building on the company's great history and performance as a leader in developing programmable logic across a wide range of markets. I look forward to working with the board to help Altera achieve its near- and long-term goals."
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's
FPGA
,
CPLD
and
ASIC
devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via
Facebook
,
RSS
and
Twitter
.
###
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.


