FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20120905155151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 4, 2012
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 4, 2012, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing a business update for the third quarter. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1 Press release dated September 4, 2012
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 5, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

ALTERA UPDATES THIRD QUARTER REVENUE GUIDANCE
 
San Jose, Calif
., September 4, 2012 - Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced updated third quarter 2012 revenue guidance.
 
Sequential revenue growth for the third quarter is expected to be in line with the company's previous guidance for growth of two percent to six percent from the second quarter levels. The company's new products will be the growth drivers for the quarter with sales of both 40nm and 28nm products up substantially.
 
Third quarter results will be released after the market close on October 23, 2012.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, projections of the company's third quarter revenue outlook and the relative sales growth of the company's new products. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, changes in demand during the remainder of the quarter for the company's new products including Cyclone
IV, Arria
II, Arria V, Stratix
IV,
and Stratix V FPGAs, MAX
V CPLDs and HardCopy
IV device families, as well as other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
 
 Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's
FPGA
,
CPLD
and
ASIC
devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via
Facebook
,
RSS
and
Twitter
.
 
###
 
 
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.
  


