FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20121127164900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Amendment to Bylaws of Altera Corporation
On November 21, 2012, the board of directors of Altera Corporation (the "Company") approved certain amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws"). These amendments change or clarify, among other things, the required vote for certain actions, the process by which stockholder lists are made available, the process by which stockholders may propose matters to be brought before a stockholder meeting, the content and manner of notice for stockholder meetings and the conduct of such meetings, the process for fixing a record date for an adjourned stockholder meeting, the authority of the committees of the board of directors, the term of directors and officers, and the wording of certain indemnification provisions. The amendments also make a number of other clarifying and conforming changes to various provisions of the Bylaws.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Company's Bylaws, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 26, 2012
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware 19808.
Section 1.1 Delaware Office.
The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Section 1.2. Other Offices.
The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's headquarters in San Jose, California or at such other locations outside the State of Delaware as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Section 1.3. Books and Records.
An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place, if any, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors from time to time. Only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with Sections 2.10 and 2.11 of these By-laws. The Board of Directors may postpone, reschedule or cancel any annual meeting of stockholders previously scheduled by the Board of Directors.
Section 2.1. Annual Meetings.
 
Special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, the Lead Independent Director, or upon the written request of one or more record holders of shares of stock of the Corporation representing in the aggregate not less than twenty percent (20%) of the total number of shares of stock outstanding and entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be brought before the proposed special meeting (the "Voting Stock").
Section 2.2. Special Meetings.
A stockholder request for a special meeting shall be directed to the Secretary of the Corporation at the Corporation's principal executive offices and shall be signed by each stockholder, or a duly authorized agent of such stockholder, requesting the special meeting and shall be accompanied by a notice setting forth the information required by Section 2.10 or Section 2.11, as applicable, of Article II of these By-laws, as to any nominations proposed to be presented and any other business proposed to be conducted at such special meeting and as to the stockholder(s) requesting the special meeting. In addition to the information required by Section 2.10 or Section 2.11, as applicable, of Article II of these By-laws, the special meeting request shall include (i) a statement of the specific purpose(s) of the meeting, the matter(s) proposed to be acted on at the special meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the special meeting, (ii) an acknowledgement by such stockholder(s) that any disposition of shares of the Voting Stock held of record by such stockholder(s) as of the date of delivery of the special meeting request and prior to the record date for the proposed special meeting of stockholders requested by such stockholder(s) shall constitute a revocation of such request with respect to such shares, and (iii) documentary evidence that the requesting stockholder(s) own in the aggregate the requisite twenty percent (20%) or more of the Voting Stock as of the date of such written request to the Secretary; provided, however, that if the requesting stockholder(s) are not the beneficial owner(s) of the shares representing the requisite twenty percent (20%) or more of the Voting Stock as of the date of such written request to the Secretary, then to be valid, the written request must also include documentary evidence that the beneficial owner(s) on whose behalf the special meeting request is made beneficially own the requisite twenty percent (20%) or more of the Voting Stock as of the date of such written request to the Secretary. In addition, the requesting stockholder(s) and the beneficial owner(s), if any, shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation.
A special meeting requested by stockholder(s) shall be held at such date, time and place within or without the state of Delaware as may be designated by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that the date of any such special meeting shall be not more than 90 days after the request to call the special meeting by the stockholder(s) who satisfy the requirements of this Section 2.2 is received by the Secretary, unless a later date is required in order to allow the Corporation to file the information required under Item 8 (or any comparable or successor provision) of Schedule 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), if applicable.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a special meeting requested by the stockholder(s) shall not be held if: (i) the request for the special meeting does not comply with the provisions of these By-laws, (ii) the stated business to be brought before the special meeting is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law, (iii) the Board of Directors has called or calls for an annual or special meeting of stockholders to be held within 90 days after the Secretary receives the request for the special meeting and the Board of Directors determines in good faith that the business of such meeting includes (among any other matters properly brought before the meeting) the business specified in the stockholder(s)' request for a special meeting, (iv) an annual or special meeting of stockholders that included an identical or substantially similar item of business ("Similar Business"), as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, was held not more than 120 days before the special meeting request was received by the Secretary, or (v) the special meeting request was made in a manner that involved a violation of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act or other applicable law. For purposes of this Section 2.2, the election of directors shall be deemed to be Similar Business with respect to all items of business involving the election or removal of directors, changing the size of the Board of Directors and filing of vacancies and/or newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors.
In determining whether a special meeting of stockholders has been requested by the record holders of shares representing in the aggregate not less than twenty percent (20%) of the Voting Stock as of the date of such written request to the Secretary, multiple special meeting requests delivered to the Secretary will be considered together only if (i) each request identifies substantially the same purpose or purposes of the proposed special meeting and substantially the same matters proposed to be acted on at the proposed special meeting (in each case as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors), and (ii) such request(s) have been dated and delivered to the Secretary within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated special meeting request.
A stockholder may revoke a request for a special meeting at any time by written revocation delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, and if, following such revocation, there are requests which have not been revoked from stockholders holding in the aggregate less than the requisite number of Voting Stock entitling the stockholder(s) to request the calling of a special meeting, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may cancel the special meeting. If none of the stockholder(s) who submitted the request for a special meeting appears or sends a qualified representative to present the nominations proposed to be presented or other business proposed to be conducted at the special meeting, the Corporation need not present such nominations or other business for a vote at such meeting.
Business transacted at all special meetings shall be confined to the matter(s) stated in the notice of special meeting. Business transacted at a special meeting requested by stockholders shall be limited to the matter(s) described in the special meeting request; provided, however, that nothing herein shall prohibit the Board of Directors from submitting matter(s) to the stockholders at any special meeting requested by stockholder(s).
The Chair of a special meeting shall determine all matter(s) relating to the conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, determining whether any nomination or other item of business has been properly brought before the meeting in accordance with these By-laws, and if the Chair should so determine and declare that any nomination or other item of business has not been properly brought before the special meeting, then such business shall not be transacted at such meeting.
 
Special meetings of stockholders may not be called by any person or persons other than as specified by this Section 2.2.
Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given that shall state the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting (if such date is different from the record date for stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting), and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting as of the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Section 2.3. Notice of Meetings.
Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. If after the adjournment a new record date for determination of stockholders entitled to vote is fixed for the adjourned meeting, the Board of Directors shall fix as the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of such adjourned meeting the same or an earlier date as that fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting, and shall give notice of the adjourned meeting to each stockholder of record as of the record date so fixed for notice of such adjourned meeting.
Section 2.4. Adjournments.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, at each meeting of stockholders the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of shares of stock having a majority of the votes which could be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at the meeting shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum, the stockholders so present may, by majority vote, adjourn the meeting from time to time in the manner provided in Section 2.4 of these By-laws until a quorum shall attend. Shares of its own stock belonging to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
Section 2.5. Quorum.
 
Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the President, or in his absence by a Vice President, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of such designation by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 2.6. Organization.
Except as otherwise provided by or pursuant to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by him which has voting power upon the matter in question. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for him by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by delivering to the Secretary of the Corporation an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or a new proxy in accordance with applicable law bearing a later date. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot; provided, however, that any election for directors must be by ballot if demanded by any stockholder at the meeting before the election has begun. Voting for the election of directors at any meeting of stockholders shall be as specified in Section 3.3 of these By-laws. All other matters presented to the stockholders for a vote at a meeting at which a quorum is present, unless otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-laws, or the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation, shall be decided by a majority of the votes cast affirmatively or negatively.
Section 2.7. Voting; Proxies.
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which record date: (1) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting and (2) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than 60 days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors: (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held and (2) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for determination of the stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting, and in such case shall also fix as the record date for stockholders entitled to notice of such adjourned meeting the same or an earlier date as that fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote in accordance herewith at the adjourned meeting.
Section 2.8. Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
 
The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting (provided, however, if the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote is less than 10 days before the date of the meeting, the list shall reflect the stockholders entitled to vote as of the 10
Section 2.9. List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote.
th
day before the meeting date), arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting at least 10 days prior to the meeting (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of meeting or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place other than the principal place of business of the Corporation, then a list of stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be examined by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting. Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
 
At a meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. The proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (1) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (2) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof or (3) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Section 2.10 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.10. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (3) of this Section 2.10, the stockholder(s) must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such proposed business must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely for an annual meeting of the stockholders, a stockholder(s)' notice must be delivered to the Secretary at the Corporation's principal executive offices not less than 120 days or more than 180 days prior to the first anniversary (the "Anniversary") of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders. However, if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 30 days after the Anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, then notice by the stockholder(s) to be timely must be delivered to the Secretary at the Corporation's principal executive offices not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 15th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is first made. To be timely for a special meeting of the stockholders, a stockholder(s)' notice must be delivered to the Secretary at the Corporation's principal executive offices not later than the 15th day following the day on which the public announcement of the date of such special meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting of the stockholders or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Other than with respect to stockholder proposals relating to director nomination(s) which requirements are set forth in Section 2.11 below, stockholder(s)' notice to the Secretary shall set forth: (a) as to each matter the stockholder(s) propose to bring before the meeting: (i) a brief description of the business the stockholder(s) desire to bring before the meeting, (ii) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), and (iii) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below): (i) the name and address of the stockholder(s), as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such Stockholder Associated Person proposing such business, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by the stockholder(s) and such Stockholder Associated Person, (iii) any material interest of the stockholder(s) or Stockholder Associated Person in such business, (iv) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to such business between or among such stockholder and/or Stockholder Associated Person, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing, (v) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business, (vi) a representation whether the stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies or votes from stockholders in support of such proposal, (vii) any other information relating to such stockholder and Stockholder Associated Person, if any, required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal pursuant to and in accordance with Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (viii) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including, but not limited to, any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares of stock) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss or increase profit to or manage the risk or benefit of stock price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder(s) or any such Stockholder Associated Person with respect to any share of stock of the Corporation (each, a "Relevant Hedge Transaction"), and (ix) to the extent not set forth pursuant to the immediately preceding clause, (a) whether and the extent to which such stockholder(s) or Stockholder Associated Person has direct or indirect beneficial ownership of any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise, or any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation (a "Derivative Instrument"), (b) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder(s) or Stockholder Associated Person that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (c) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder(s) or Stockholder Associated Person are a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (d) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder(s) are entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder(s)' immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder(s) and beneficial owner(s), if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date).
Section 2.10. Stockholder Proposals at Any Meeting of Stockholders.
 
For purposes of this Section 2.10 and Section 2.11, "Stockholder Associated Person" of any stockholder shall mean (i) any person controlling or controlled by, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder and (iii) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Stockholder Associated Person.
For purposes of this Section 2.10 and Section 2.11, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or other national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
The Chairman of a meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.10 and the other provisions of these By-laws, and if the Chairman should so determine he or she shall so declare to the meeting, and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
Nothing in this Section 2.10 shall affect the right of a stockholder to request inclusion of a proposal in the Corporation's proxy statement to the extent that such right is provided by an applicable law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.10, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present the proposal, such proposal shall be disregarded, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 2.10, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
 
In addition to any other applicable requirements, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, by any nominating committee or person appointed by the Board of Directors or by stockholder(s) of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting who comply with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.11 and the other provisions of these By-laws. Such nominations shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation at the Corporation's principal executive offices in accordance with these By-laws. To be timely for an annual meeting of the stockholders, a stockholder(s)' notice must be delivered to the principal executive offices of the Corporation, not less than 120 days or more than 180 days prior to the first Anniversary of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders. However, if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 30 days after the Anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, then notice by stockholder(s) to be timely must be delivered to the Secretary at the Corporation's principal executive offices not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 15th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is first made. To be timely for a special meeting of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, a stockholder(s)' notice must be delivered to the Secretary at the Corporation's principal executive offices not later than the 15th day following the day on which the public announcement of the date of such special meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a meeting of the stockholders or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. The stockholder(s)' notice relating to director nomination(s) shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder(s) propose to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of the capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by the person, (iv) any other information relating to the person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Section 14A under the Exchange Act, and (v) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and serving as a director if elected; (b) as to the stockholder(s) giving the notice and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined in Section 2.10), (i) the name and record address of the stockholder(s), as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such Stockholder Associated Person, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of the capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by the stockholder(s) and such Stockholder Associated Person (iii) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination between or among such stockholder and/or Stockholder Associated Person, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing, including, the nominee, (iv) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such nomination, (v) a representation whether the stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies or votes from stockholders in support of such nomination, and (vi) any other information relating to such stockholder and Stockholder Associated Person, if any, required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the election of directors in an election contest pursuant to and in accordance with Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; (vii) whether and the extent to which any Relevant Hedge Transaction (as defined in Section 2.10) has been entered into by such stockholder(s) or Stockholder Associated Person, (viii) whether and the extent to which any Derivative Instrument (as defined in Section 2.10) is directly or indirectly beneficially owned by such stockholder(s) or Stockholder Associated Person, (ix) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder(s) or Stockholder Associated Person that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (x) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder(s) or Stockholder Associated Person are a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (xi) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder(s) or Stockholder Associated Person are entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder(s)' immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder(s) and beneficial owner(s), if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date). The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-laws.
Section 2.11. Nominations of Persons For Election to the Board of Directors.
 
The Chairman of a meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.11 and the other provisions of these By-laws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.11, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present the nomination, such nomination shall be disregarded, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 2.11, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
 
Section 2.12. Action By Consent of Stockholders.
(a) Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders or may be effected by a consent in writing by stockholders as provided by, and subject to the limitations in, the Certificate of Incorporation and this Section 2.12.
(b) A request by a stockholder for a record date in accordance with Article Eighth of the Certificate of Incorporation must be delivered by the holders of record of at least twenty percent (20%) (the "Voting Stock") of the voting power of the outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to express consent on the relevant action, must describe the action that the stockholder proposes to take by consent (the "Action") and must contain (i) the text of the proposal (including the text of any resolutions to be effected by consent), (ii) the information required by Section 2.2 of these bylaws, to the extent applicable, as though the stockholder(s) making the request were making a Special Meeting Request in furtherance of the Action, (iii) an acknowledgment by such stockholder(s) that any disposition of shares of the Voting Stock held of record by such stockholder(s) as of the date of delivery of the request for a record date and prior to the date of delivery of the first written consent with respect to the Action shall constitute a revocation of such request with respect to such shares, (iv) a statement that the stockholder(s) intend to solicit consents in accordance with Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act, without reliance on the exemption contained in Rule 14a-2(b)(2) of the Exchange Act, and (v) documentary evidence that the requesting stockholder(s) own in the aggregate the requisite twenty percent (20%) or more of the Voting Stock as of the date of such written request to the Secretary; provided, however, that if the requesting stockholder(s) are not the beneficial owner(s) of the shares representing the requisite twenty percent (20%) or more of the Voting Stock as of the date of such written request to the Secretary, then to be valid, the written request must also include documentary evidence that the beneficial owner(s) on whose behalf the request for a record date is made beneficially own the requisite twenty percent (20%) or more of the Voting Stock as of the date of such written request to the Secretary. In addition, the requesting stockholder(s) and the beneficial owner(s), if any, shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation.
(c) In determining whether a record date has been requested by the record holders of shares representing in the aggregate not less than twenty percent (20%) of the Voting Stock as of the date of such written request to the Secretary, multiple requests delivered to the Secretary will be considered together only if (i) each request identifies substantially the same proposed action and includes substantially the same text of the proposal (in each case as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors), and (ii) such request(s) have been dated and delivered to the Secretary within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated request. A stockholder may revoke a request at any time by written revocation delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
 
The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and (for any or no reason) to recess and/or adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Section 2.13. Conduct of Meetings.
Section 2.14. Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls.
(a) The Board of Directors, in advance of any stockholders' meeting, by resolution may appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternative inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternative has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternatives who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
(b) In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 2.12 and applicable law, to the Corporation of written consent or written consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall appoint one or more inspectors for the purpose of performing promptly a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspector(s) to perform such review, no action by written consent and without a meeting shall be effective until such inspector(s) have completed their review, determined that the requisite number of valid and unrevoked consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 2.12 and applicable law have been obtained to authorize or take the action specified in the consents, and certified such determination for entry in the records of the Corporation kept for the purpose of recording the proceedings of meetings of stockholders. Nothing contained herein shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the inspector(s), or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
 
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these By-laws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-laws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 3.1. General Powers.
Subject to the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors shall consist of one or more members, the number to be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. Directors need not be stockholders.
Section 3.2. Number; Qualifications.
At the first annual meeting of stockholders and at each annual meeting thereafter at which a quorum is present, each director shall be elected by the vote of a majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election, provided that if, as of the 10th day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this Section 3.3, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director must exceed the number of such votes cast "against" that director (with "abstentions" and "broker non-votes" not counted as votes cast either "for" or "against" that director's election). If a nominee for director, who is not serving as a director of the Corporation at the time of such election, does not receive a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, such nominee shall not be elected. In order for any incumbent director to become a nominee of the Board of Directors for further service on the Board of Directors, such person must submit an irrevocable resignation, contingent on (i) that person not receiving a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, and (ii) acceptance of that resignation by the Board of Directors in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Directors for such purpose. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election which is not a Contested Election, the Nominating and Governance Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the Nominating and Governance Committee's recommendation and publicly disclose (by a press release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision regarding the resignation (and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision) within 90 days from the date that the election results are certified. The Nominating and Governance Committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision each may consider any factors and other information that they consider appropriate and relevant. The director who tenders his or resignation shall not participate in the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee or the decision of the Board of Directors with respect to his resignation. If such director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
Section 3.3. Election; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies.
 
Each director shall hold office for a term of one year or until such time as his successor is elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. Any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of shares then entitled to vote at the election of directors. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless the notice specifies a later time for that resignation to become effective. Unless otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, any newly created directorship resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, failure to receive a majority of the votes cast at an election of directors, removal from office or any other cause may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining members of the Board of Directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and each director so elected shall hold office until the expiration of the term of office of the director whom he has replaced or until his successor is elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine, and if so determined notices thereof need not be given.
Section 3.4. Regular Meetings.
Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Lead Independent Director, or any two members of the Board of Directors. Notice of the special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given by the person or persons calling the meeting at least 24 hours before the special meeting, personally, by facsimile, by electronic transmission or by telephone to each director or sent by first-class mail, telegram, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that directors' address as it is shown on the records of the Corporation. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose or purposes of the special meeting or the place of the special meeting, if the meeting is to be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
Section 3.5. Special Meetings.
 
Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting thereof by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this By-law shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 3.6. Telephonic Meetings Permitted.
At all meetings of the Board of Directors fifty percent (50%) of the whole Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Except in cases in which the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-laws or applicable law otherwise provide, the vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. A majority of the directors present, whether or not a quorum, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place. Notice of the time and place of holding an adjourned meeting need not be given unless the meeting is adjourned for more than 24 hours. If the meeting is adjourned for more than 24 hours, then notice of the time and place of the adjourned meeting shall be given to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment in the manner specified in these By-laws.
Section 3.7. Quorum; Vote Required for Action; Adjournment.
Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the President, or in their absence by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 3.8. Organization.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or such committee in accordance with applicable law.
Section 3.9. Consent in Lieu of Meeting of Directors.
Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. This Section 3.10 shall not be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and receiving compensation for those services.
Section 3.10. Fees and Compensation of Directors.
 
To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the Corporation or of its subsidiary, including any officer or employee who is a director of the Corporation or its subsidiary, whenever, in the judgment of the directors, such loan, guaranty or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the Corporation. To the extent permitted by applicable law, such loan, guaranty or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the Board of Directors shall approve, including without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the Corporation. Nothing in this section contained shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the Corporation at common law or under any statutes.
Section 3.11. Approval of Loans to Officers.
The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to the following matters: (i) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter (other than the election or removal of directors) expressly required by statute to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (ii) adopting, amending or repealing any By-law of the Corporation.
Section 4.1. Committees.
Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board of Directors may make, alter and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of such rules each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to Article III of these By-laws.
Section 4.2. Committee Rules.
 
The officers of the Corporation shall be a president, a secretary, and a chief financial officer. The Corporation may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, a chairman of the board, one or more vice presidents, one or more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these By-laws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Section 5.1. Officers.
The officers of the Corporation except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 or Section 5.5 of these By-laws, shall be chosen by the board, subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment. Each officer shall hold office for such term as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors and until such person's successor shall have been duly chosen and qualified, or until such person's earlier death, disqualification, resignation or removal.
Section 5.2. Election of Officers.
The Board of Directors may appoint, or may empower the president to appoint, such other officers as the business of the Corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as are provided in these By-laws or as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Section 5.3. Subordinate Officers.
Subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment, any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the board or, except in case of an officer chosen by the Board of Directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors.
Section 5.4. Removal and Resignation of Officers.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Corporation. Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice; and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the Corporation under any contract to which the officer is a party.
A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these By-laws for regular appointments to that office.
Section 5.5. Vacancies in Offices.
The chairman of the board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the Board of Directors and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or as may be prescribed by these By-laws. If there is no president, then the chairman of the board shall also be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in Section 5.7 of these By-laws.
Section 5.6. Chairman of the Board.
 
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the chairman of the board, if there be such an officer, the president shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and the officers of the Corporation. He shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a chairman of the board, at all meetings of the Board of Directors. He shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a Corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these By-laws.
Section 5.7. President.
In the absence or disability of the president, the vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform all the duties of the president and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president. The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors, these By-laws, the president or the chairman of the board.
Section 5.8. Vice Presidents.
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the Corporation or such other place as the Board of Directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors and stockholders. The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings, and the proceeding thereof.
Section 5.9. Secretary.
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the Corporation or at the office of the Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates evidencing such shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors required to be given by law or by these By-laws. He shall keep the seal of the Corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by these By-laws.
The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings, and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.
Section 5.10. Chief Financial Officer.
The chief financial officer shall deposit all money and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors. He shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the president and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these By-laws.
 
 
The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all or any or all classes or series of stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. The shares of the Corporation's stock shall be entered in the books of the Corporation and registered as they are issued. Any certificates representing shares of stock shall be in such form as the Board of Directors shall prescribe. Every holder of stock represented by certificate shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation. Any of or all the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 6.1. Certificates or Uncertificated Shares.
Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation or its agent shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice that shall set forth the name of the Corporation, the name of the stockholder, the number of shares of the stock represented, and any restrictions on the transfer or registration of such shares of stock imposed by the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, these By-laws, any agreement among stockholders or any agreement between stockholders and the Corporation.
The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate or uncertificated shares.
Section 6.2. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates or Uncertificated Shares.
 
The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding") by reason of the fact that he, or a person for whom he is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or, while a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such person. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except as otherwise provided in Section 7.3 of this Article VII, the Corporation shall be required to indemnify a person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if the commencement of such proceeding (or part thereof) by such person was authorized in the specific case by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Section 7.1. Right to Indemnification.
The Corporation shall pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a director or officer in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, provided, however, that, to the extent required by law, the payment of expenses incurred by a director or officer in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the director or officer to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article VII or otherwise.
Section 7.2. Prepayment of Expenses.
If a claim for indemnification or payment of expenses under this Article VII is not paid in full within 60 days after a written claim therefor has been received by the Corporation, the claimant shall thereupon (but not before) be entitled to file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim. If successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim to the fullest extent permitted by law. In any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the claimant was not entitled to the requested indemnification or payment of expenses under applicable law.
Section 7.3. Claims.
The rights conferred on any person by this Article VII shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Section 7.4. Non-Exclusivity of Rights.
The Corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any director or officer who was or is serving at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity shall be reduced by any amount such person may collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit enterprise.
Section 7.5. Other Indemnification.
 
Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article VII shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any director or officer in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
Section 7.6. Amendment or Repeal.
This Article VII shall not limit the right of the Corporation to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, to indemnify and to advance expenses to persons other than directors and officers when and as authorized by appropriate corporate action.
Section 7.7. Other Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 8.1. Fiscal Year.
The corporate seal shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 8.2. Seal.
Section 8.3. Manner of Notice and Waiver of Notice of Meetings of Stockholders.
(a) Except as otherwise provided herein or permitted by applicable law, notices to stockholders shall be in writing and delivered personally or mailed to the stockholders at their addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, and except as prohibited by applicable law, any notice to stockholders given by the Corporation under any provision of applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these By-laws shall be effective if given by a single written notice to stockholders who share an address if consented to by the stockholders at that address to whom such notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the Corporation. Any stockholder who fails to object in writing to the Corporation, within 60 days of having been given written notice by the corporation of its intention to send the single notice permitted under this Section 8.3(a), shall be deemed to have consented to receiving such single written notice.
(b) Any written waiver of notice, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
 
No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose, if: (1) the material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (2) the material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (3) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Section 8.4. Interested Directors; Quorum.
Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account, and minute books, may be kept on, or by means of, or be in the form of, punch cards, magnetic tape, photographs, microphotographs, or any other information storage device or method, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time.
Section 8.5. Form of Records.
These By-laws may be altered or repealed, and new By-laws made, by the Board of Directors, but the stockholders may make additional by-laws and may alter and repeal any by-laws whether adopted by them or otherwise.
Section 8.6. Amendment of By-laws.
 


