FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20120731164817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 30, 2012
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
    
(b)          
On July 30, 2012, Krish A. Prabhu resigned his position as a director of Altera Corporation (the Company).  His resignation is effective immediately.
(d)          
On July 30, 2012, the Company announced the election of A. Blaine Bowman to serve as a new member of the Company's board of directors and audit committee, effective July 30, 2012.  Mr. Bowman is currently a director of Illumina, Inc.  Mr. Bowman will participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2012 proxy statement. He will receive an annual cash retainer of $50,000 for his service on the board of directors and an annual cash retainer of $12,000 for his service on the audit committee. As a new non-employee director, Mr. Bowman received a stock option grant of 40,000 shares upon first becoming a director. In connection with the election, the Company entered into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Bowman, the terms of which are identical in all material respects to the form of indemnification agreement that the Company has previously entered into with each of its directors, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 26, 2008.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Bowman's election is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 \
99.1 Press Release dated July
30
, 2012
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated : July 31, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
       
Description
 

A. Blaine Bowman Joins Altera Board of Directors
San Jose, Calif., July 30, 2012-
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) announced that Arthur Blaine Bowman has joined the company's board of directors, effective July 30, 2012. Mr. Bowman has served as president, CEO and chairman of the board of directors for Dionex Corporation, a maker of chromatography separation technologies acquired by Thermo Fisher Scientific in 2011. He currently serves on the board of directors for Illumina, Inc., a leading life sciences company that develops innovative tools for DNA, RNA, and protein analysis.
"Blaine's notable background in leading companies focused on innovative technologies and sciences is a strong addition to Altera's leadership team," said John Daane, Altera's president, chairman and CEO. We look forward to tapping his expertise in developing leading-edge products and expanding into new markets.
"Altera's track record of growth, coupled with its ability to adapt while enabling customers to differentiate in their markets, is impressive," said Mr. Bowman. I look forward to working with the board members to help Altera continue to excel.
Prior to his 28-year career with Dionex, Mr. Bowman served as a management consultant with McKinsey & Company and as a product engineer at Motorola Semiconductor. Mr. Bowman holds a Master of Business Administration from Stanford University, as well as a Bachelor of Science in Physics
from Brigham Young University.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's
FPGA
,
CPLD
and
ASIC
devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via
Facebook
,
RSS
and
Twitter
.
###
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.


