FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20120419163337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SE1CURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 19, 2012
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On
April 19, 2012
, Altera Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
99.1 Press release dated
April 19, 2012
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated :
April 19, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
       
Description
 

ALTERA ANNOUNCES FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
San Jose, Calif
.,
April 19, 2012
 Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) today announced first quarter sales of
$383.8 million
, down
16 percent
from the fourth quarter of 2011 and down
28 percent
from the first quarter of 2011. First quarter net income was
$115.8 million
,
$0.35
per diluted share, compared with net income of
$146.6 million
,
$0.45
per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2011 and
$224.1 million
,
$0.68
per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2011.
Cash flow from operating activities was
$89.8 million
. Altera repurchased 220,449 shares of its common stock during the quarter at a cost of $8.2 million. Altera ended the quarter with $
3.6 billion
in cash and investments.
Altera's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 per share payable on June 1, 2012 to stockholders of record on May 10, 2012.
 
"Demand in the last month of the quarter was generally lighter than forecasted, particularly from customers in the communications vertical market. In addition, we experienced some mix issues as we attempted to fulfill orders that arrived in the last month of the quarter. These factors were the major contributors to quarterly revenue that was well below our previous outlook. As we enter the second quarter, our backlog position has significantly improved reflecting stronger demand for our products. We expect a rebound in our business in the second quarter," said John Daane, president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board. "Our portfolio of 28-nm FPGAs is displaying strong design-win momentum. We continue to benefit from both our incumbency position and a tailored architecture approach that optimizes the performance of each of our 28-nm FPGA families."
Several recent accomplishments mark the company's continuing progress:
SELECTED FIRST QUARTER REVENUE AND RELATED RESULTS
                
ALTERA CORPORATION
NET SALES SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
Product Category Description
Business Outlook for the Second Quarter 2012
Sales and Income Statement
        
Vertical Market
                        
First Quarter Earnings Conference Call
 
A conference call will be held today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss the quarter's results and management's current business outlook. The web cast and subsequent replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.altera.com. A telephonic replay of the call may be accessed later in the day by calling (719) 457-0820 and referencing confirmation code 258712. The telephonic replay will be available for two weeks following the live call.
 
Second Quarter Update
 
Altera's second quarter business update will be issued in a press release available after the market close on June 7, 2012.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are "forward-looking statements" as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," or other words that imply or predict a future state. Forward-looking statements include an expectation of improvement in our business and in demand in the second quarter, as well as any projection of revenue, gross margin, expense or other financial items discussed in the Business Outlook section or elsewhere in this press release. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated, due to a number of factors, including without limitation, current global economic conditions, customer business environment, customer inventory levels, vertical market mix, market acceptance of the company's products, product introduction schedules, the rate of growth of the company's new products including Cyclone
V, Cyclone
IV, Arria
V, Arria
II, Stratix
V,
Stratix IV FPGAs, MAX
V CPLDs and HardCopy
IV device families, as well as changes in economic conditions and other risk factors discussed in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. Copies of Altera's SEC filings are posted on the company's website and are available from the company without charge. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this release, and, except as required by law, the company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera's FPGA, CPLD and ASIC devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via Facebook, RSS and Twitter.
 
###
 
 
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.
 
 
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(Unaudited)
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
ALTERA CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited, in thousands)


