FILE:ALTR/ALTR-8K-20121108171254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
            
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 7, 2012
            
ALTERA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 544-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d)
On November 7, 2012, Altera Corporation (the "Company") announced the election of Shane V. Robison to serve as a new member of the Company's board of directors and compensation committee, effective November 7, 2012.  Mr. Robison is currently a director of Fusion-io, Inc.  Mr. Robison will participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2012 proxy statement. He will receive an annual cash retainer of $50,000 for his service on the board of directors and an annual cash retainer of $10,000 for his service on the compensation committee. As a new non-employee director, Mr. Bowman received a stock option grant of 40,000 shares upon first becoming a director. In connection with the election, the Company entered into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Robison, the terms of which are identical in all material respects to the form of indemnification agreement that the Company has previously entered into with each of its directors, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 26, 2008.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Robison's election is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Press Release dated November 7, 2012
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated : November 7, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
       
Description
 

Editor Contacts:
Sue Martenson
Altera Corporation
(408) 544-8158
newsroom@altera.com
Shane Robison Joins Altera Board of Directors
San Jose, Calif., November 7, 2012
Altera Corporation (NASDAQ: ALTR) announced that Shane Robison has joined the companys board of directors, effective November 7, 2012. Mr. Robison served most recently as executive vice president, chief technology officer and chief strategy officer for HP from 2002 to 2011. Additionally, during his 32-year career, Mr. Robison held senior executive leadership positions in product development and business management with world-leading technology companies, including AT&T Labs, Cadence Design Systems and Apple.
"Shanes strong background in leading organizations dedicated to global innovation is a tremendous addition to the Altera board of directors," said John Daane, Altera president, CEO and chairman.
"The companys ability to stay at the forefront of its sector for nearly three decades is impressive," said Mr. Robison. I look forward to working with the board members to assist Altera with continuing to thrive in a highly competitive global marketplace.
Mr. Robison holds a Master of Science degree and a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from the University of Utah.
About Altera
Altera programmable solutions enable system and semiconductor companies to rapidly and cost-effectively innovate, differentiate and win in their markets. Find out more about Altera
FPGA,
CPLD
and
ASIC
devices at
www.altera.com
. Follow Altera via
Facebook
,
RSS
and
Twitter
.
###
ALTERA, ARRIA, CYCLONE, HARDCOPY, MAX, MEGACORE, NIOS, QUARTUS and STRATIX words and logos are trademarks of Altera Corporation and registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other words and logos identified as trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders as described at
www.altera.com/legal
.


