FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20020719141307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5.   Other Events
         On July 17, 2002, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) announced 2002 second quarter reported earnings per share of $0.50, compared with $0.48 in the first quarter of 2002 and $0.18 in the second quarter of 2001. Reported net income was $1,028 million in the second quarter compared to $982 million in the first quarter and $378 million one year ago.
         Operating earnings per share, which exclude merger and restructuring charges associated with programs announced prior to 2002, were $0.58 compared with $0.57 in the first quarter of 2002 and $0.38 in the second quarter of 2001. Operating earnings were $1,179 million in the second quarter compared to $1,150 million in the first quarter and $786 million one year ago. Operating earnings for 2001 have been increased by adding back amortization of goodwill to present 2001 results on a basis comparable to the results for 2002 which include the impact of the implementation on January 1, 2002 of SFAS 142. For a reconciliation between Operating and Reported earnings see the table on page 7 of the press release attached as an exhibit hereto.
         A copy of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.'s press release is attached as an exhibit hereto. That press release contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause our results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are described in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2002 and in the 2001 Annual Report on Form 10-K, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's internet site (http://www.sec.gov), to which reference is hereby made.
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro forma Financial Information and Exhibits
Table of Contents
         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
 

 
 

 
News release: IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
bp  Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%
NM  Not meaningful
 
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
 
 

 
 
Page 2
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
Page 3
 
Page 4
 
Page 5
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
Page 6
 
Page 7
 
          
          
          
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
Page 8
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
Page 9
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
Page 10
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
Page 11
 
(dollars and shares in millions)
Public Securities Investments at June 30, 2002
(a)  Publicly traded positions only.
(b)  Represents the number of companies and funds at June 30, 2002.
(c)  Does not include 3.3 million shares held directly by the holding company, received upon a distribution from JPMP.
Page 12
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
(a)  Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.
Page 13
 
(a)  Sum of total customer purchases, cash advances and balance transfers.
(b)  Assets under management includes deposits.
(c)  Estimated
Page 14
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
(a)  Includes trading-related net interest income.
Page 15
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
Page 16
 
Page 17
 
Page 18
 
(a)  Represents period end balances for each respective quarter.
Page 19
 
Note: Prior periods have been restated to conform with current methodologies.
(a)  Estimated
Page 20
 
Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.
Average Managed Assets:
Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.
bp:
Includes Support Units and the effects remaining at the corporate level after the implementation of management accounting policies.
Corporate:
JPMorgan Chase's private equity business. Public securities held by JPMP are marked-to-market at the quoted public value less liquidity discounts, with the resulting unrealized gains/losses included in the income statement. JPMP's valuation policy for public securities incorporates the use of liquidity discounts and price averaging methodologies in certain circumstances to take into account the fact that JPMP cannot immediately realize the quoted public values as a result of the regulatory, corporate, or other contractual sales restrictions generally imposed on these holdings. Private investments are initially carried at cost, which is viewed as an approximation of fair value. The carrying value of private investments is adjusted to reflect valuation changes resulting from unaffiliated party transactions and for evidence of a decline in value.
JPMorgan Partners ("JPMP"):
JPMorgan Chase uses this terminology to refer to its credit card receivables on the balance sheet plus securitized credit card receivables.
Managed Credit Card Receivables or Managed Basis:
Not meaningful
NM:
Reported results excluding the impact of merger and restructuring costs, special items, credit card securitizations and the amortization of goodwill.
Operating Basis or Operating Earnings:
Consists of installment loans (direct and indirect types of consumer finance), student loans, unsecured lines of credit and foreign consumer.
Other Consumer Loans:
Operating expense (excluding merger and restructuring costs and special items) as a percentage of the operating revenues.
Overhead Ratio:
Financial statements prepared under generally accepted accounting principles. The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations, merger and restructuring costs, special items, and the net effect of the change in accounting principle.
Reported Basis:
- All periods are on a comparable basis, although restatements may occur in future periods to reflect further alignment of management accounting policies or changes in organizational structures between businesses.
Segment Results
As a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", net income for the first half of 2001 includes the cumulative effect of a transition adjustment of $(25) million, net of taxes. The impact on each of basic and diluted earnings per share was $(0.01).
SFAS 133:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
SFAS 142:
Represents operating earnings minus preferred dividends and an explicit charge for capital.
Shareholder Value Added ("SVA"):
Includes merger and restructuring costs and special items.
Special Items:
Includes net interest income ("NII") attributable to trading activities.
Trading-Related Revenue:
The financial statements and information included throughout this document are unaudited.
Unaudited:
Page 21


