FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20030124160340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
     On January 22, 2003, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") reported a net loss of $387 million, or ($0.20) per share, in the fourth quarter of 2002, compared with net income of $40 million, or $0.01 per share, in the third quarter of 2002 and a net loss of $332 million, or ($0.18) per share, in the fourth quarter of 2001.
     As previously announced, earnings this quarter were affected negatively by the impact of the charges taken in connection with the settlement of the Enron surety litigation and the establishment of a litigation reserve related to certain material litigation, proceedings and investigations. Excluding these charges, which totaled $1.30 billion or $0.43 per share, and the previously disclosed merger and relocation costs of $393 million or $0.13 per share, earnings for the 2002 fourth quarter would have been $0.36 per share, in line with the guidance provided on the Firm's January 2, 2003 investor call.
     For the full year, net income was $1.66 billion, or $0.80 per share, compared with net income of $1.69 billion and earnings per share of $0.80 in 2001. Earnings before litigation-related charges and merger and relocation costs were $3.38 billion or $1.66 per share this year compared with earnings of $3.80 billion or $1.85 per share in 2001.
     A copy of the 2002 fourth quarter earnings press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     That press release contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause our results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are described in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2002, June 30, 2002 and March 31, 2002 and in the 2001 Annual Report on Form 10-K, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's internet site (www.sec.gov), to which reference is hereby made.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro forma Financial Information and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
     Exhibit 99.2 are copies of supplemental financial schedules. Those schedules are furnished pursuant to Item 9 and the information contained in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
     Exhibit 99.3 are copies of slides presented at an investors' presentation on January 22, 2003 reviewing 2002 fourth quarter earnings. Those slides are furnished pursuant to Item 9 and the information contained in Exhibit 99.3 shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information in Exhibit 99.3 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 24, 2003
Table of Contents

Table of Contents

 

 
News release: IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) today reported a net loss of $387 million, or ($0.20) per share, in the fourth quarter of 2002, compared with net income of $40 million, or $0.01 per share, in the third quarter of 2002 and a net loss of $332 million, or ($0.18) per share, in the fourth quarter of 2001.
New York, January 22, 2003
As previously announced, earnings this quarter were affected negatively by the impact of the charges taken in connection with the settlement of the Enron surety litigation and the establishment of a litigation reserve related to certain material litigation, proceedings and investigations. Excluding these charges, which totaled $1.30 billion or $0.43 per share, and the previously disclosed merger and relocation costs of $393 million or $0.13 per share, earnings for the 2002 fourth quarter would have been $0.36 per share, in line with the guidance provided on our January 2, 2003 analyst call.
For the full year, net income was $1.66 billion, or $0.80 per share, compared with net income of $1.69 billion and earnings per share of $0.80 in 2001. Earnings before litigation-related charges and merger and relocation costs were $3.38 billion or $1.66 per share this year compared with earnings of $3.80 billion or $1.85 per share in 2001.
"2002 tested the strength and tenacity of JPMorgan Chase. While operating revenues were up 2% from 2001, the impact of sluggish capital markets and our concentrations in private equity and in segments of our commercial credit portfolio led to a disappointing year," said William B. Harrison, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Fourth quarter results are a step in the right direction. Our consumer and operating services businesses continued to perform well, capital markets performance improved, and the credit picture stabilized. We enter 2003 with our product and client leadership positions intact, an adjusted expense baseline, and a focus on disciplined execution."
Highlights for the fourth quarter of 2002:
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
 
 
In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management utilizes "operating basis" to assess each of its businesses and to measure overall Firm results against targeted goals. The definition of operating basis starts with the reported GAAP results and then excludes the impact of merger and restructuring costs and special items, which management currently defines as significant nonrecurring gains or losses of $75 million or more. Both restructuring charges and special items are viewed by management as transactions that are not part of the Firm's normal daily business operations or are unusual in nature and are therefore not indicative of trends.
 
     In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management utilizes "operating basis" to assess each of its businesses and to measure overall Firm results against targeted goals. The definition of operating basis starts with the reported GAAP results and then excludes the impact of merger and restructuring costs and special items, which management currently defines as significant nonrecurring gains or losses of $75 million or more. Both restructuring charges and special items are viewed by management as transactions that are not part of the Firm's normal daily business operations or are unusual in nature and are therefore not indicative of trends.
 
 
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
 

 
 
Page 2
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 3
 
Page 4
 
Page 5
 
Page 6
 
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 7
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 8
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 9
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 10
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 11
 
(dollars and shares in millions)
Public Securities Investments at December 31, 2002
Page 12
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 13
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 14
 
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 15
 
Note: Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.
Page 16
 
Page 17
 
Page 18
 
Page 19
 
Page 20
 
Page 21
 
Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.
Average Managed Assets:
Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.
bp:
Includes Support Units and the effect remaining at the corporate level after the implementation of management accounting policies.
Corporate:
JPMorgan Chase's private equity business. Public securities held by JPMP are marked-to-market at the quoted public value less liquidity discounts, with the resulting unrealized gains/losses included in the income statement. JPMP's valuation policy for public securities incorporates the use of liquidity discounts and price averaging methodologies in certain circumstances to take into account the fact that JPMP cannot immediately realize the quoted public values as a result of the regulatory, corporate and contractual sales restrictions generally imposed on these holdings. Private investments are initially carried at cost, which is viewed as an approximation of fair value. The carrying value of private investments is adjusted to reflect valuation changes. Evidence of valuation changes are the result of unaffiliated party transactions, or in the case of impairment, regular internal valuation reviews by senior investment professionals. Such reviews consider external market and industry indicators of value.
JPMorgan Partners ("JPMP"):
Refer to the credit card receivables on JPMorgan Chase's balance sheet plus securitized credit card receivables.
Managed Credit Card Receivables or Managed Basis:
Not meaningful
NM:
Represents reported results excluding the impact of merger and restructuring costs, special items, credit card securitizations and goodwill amortization.
Operating Basis or Operating Earnings:
Consists of installment loans (direct and indirect types of consumer finance), student loans, unsecured lines of credit and foreign consumer.
Other Consumer Loans:
Operating expense (excluding merger and restructuring costs and special items) as a percentage of the operating revenues.
Overhead Ratio:
Financial statements prepared under generally accepted accounting principles. The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations, merger and restructuring costs, special items, and the net effect of the change in accounting principle.
Reported Basis:
All periods are on a comparable basis, although restatements may occur in future periods to reflect further alignment of management accounting policies or changes in organizational structures between businesses.
Segment Results 
As a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", net income in 2001 includes the cumulative effect of a transition adjustment of $(25) million, net of taxes. The impact on basic and diluted earnings per share was $(0.01).
SFAS 133:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
SFAS 142:
Represents operating earnings less preferred dividends and an explicit charge for capital.
Shareholder Value Added ("SVA"):
Includes merger and restructuring costs and special items.
Special Items:
Includes net interest income ("NII") attributable to trading activities.
Trading-Related Revenue:
The financial statements and information included throughout this document are unaudited.
Unaudited:
Page 22

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


