FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20040514124747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., a Delaware corporation ("JPMorgan Chase"), and Bank One Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Bank One"), have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 14, 2004 (the "Merger Agreement"). The Merger Agreement provides for the merger of Bank One with and into JPMorgan Chase (the "Merger"). The Merger will be treated as a purchase business combination by JPMorgan Chase under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Completion of the Merger is subject to various conditions, including the receipt of all required regulatory approvals and the approval of the Merger by the stockholders of both JPMorgan Chase and Bank One.
Upon completion of the Merger, which is expected to occur in mid-2004, each share of common stock of Bank One, $0.01 par value per share, outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger, will be converted into 1.32 shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock, $1.00 par value per share.
Certain financial information for Bank One and pro forma combined financial information for the combined entity giving effect to the Merger is set forth below.
 
Reproduced below is management's discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations for Bank One prepared by Bank One and included in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Management's Discussion and Analysis included herein contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, Bank One Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Corporation") may make or approve certain statements in future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the Corporation's approval that are not statements of historical fact and may constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may relate to, without limitation, the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance or business.
     Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "targeted" and similar expressions, and future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," or "may," are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the only means to identify these statements.
     Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual conditions, events or results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. Factors that could cause this difference-many of which are beyond the Corporation's control-include the following, without limitation:
     Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. The Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent circumstances or events.
OVERVIEW OF MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
This overview of management's discussion and analysis highlights selected information in this document and may not contain all of the information that is important to you. For a more complete understanding of trends, events, commitments, uncertainties, liquidity, capital resources and critical accounting estimates, you should carefully read this entire document. Each of these items could have an impact on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.
     The Corporation relies equally on net interest income and noninterest income as sources of earnings. For the three months ended March 31, 2004, net interest income and noninterest income provided 48% and 52% of total revenue, respectively. Changes in interest rates, credit quality and the capital markets are therefore primary factors that drive the performance of the Corporation. As described on pages 27-31 and pages 54-61 of the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report, risk identification, measurement, monitoring and reporting are important to management of risk and maintenance of strong performance and capital position of the Corporation.
     Net interest income is derived from the excess of interest collected from borrowers and interest bearing investments over interest paid to depositors and on interest bearing liabilities. Generally, the rates of interest the Corporation earns on its assets and owes on its liabilities are established contractually for a period of time. Market interest rates change over time, thereby exposing the Corporation to interest-rate risk, and potentially lower margins (or losses) if it cannot adapt to these changes. The Corporation manages this risk by continually analyzing and adjusting assets and liabilities
 
based on their payment streams and interest rates, the timing of their maturities, and their sensitivity to actual or potential changes in market interest rates.
     The Corporation is also exposed to the risk of losses as a result of losing expected cash flows caused by loan defaults, inadequate collateral and changes in prepayment rates.
     Noninterest income is derived primarily from banking fees and service charges; credit card revenue; fiduciary and investment management fees; and investment security and trading gains. The Corporation manages the market risk and credit risk by monitoring and reacting to changes that may impact revenue.
     Net income for the first quarter of 2004 was $1.2 billion, or $1.09 per diluted share, an increase of $415 million, or 51%, compared to $818 million, or $0.71 per diluted share. The Corporation experienced growth across many of its operating businesses with growth in deposit accounts, core deposits, consumer lending, investment sales, credit card charge volume and assets under management. In addition, middle market saw modest growth in loan balances and the Corporation continued to benefit from improvements in Commercial Banking credit quality.
     Income from continuing operations, net of taxes, was $1.2 billion, or $1.09 per diluted share, compared to $811 million, or $0.70 per diluted share. The current quarter included several significant after-tax items including a $115 million benefit related to the release of Commercial Banking reserves, $77 million of net securities gains, and a $55 million benefit from actions taken related to the portfolio of non-core home equity loans held for sale. Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, for the first quarter of 2003 was $7 million, or $0.01 per diluted share. Net income from discontinued operations in the current quarter was nominal.
     The Corporation continued to reinvest by expanding and upgrading its branch and ATM networks and growing customer-facing staff. Overall headcount was down 4%, despite an expanded Retail sales force and the addition of staff related to the Zurich Life acquisition. During the quarter substantial progress was made in preparing to integrate Bank One and JPMorgan Chase upon closing the pending merger, including announcing anticipated management teams throughout the organization, establishing new financial and risk policies and reporting frameworks, and addressing many technology and integration issues.
     The Corporation grew consumer loans, especially home equity and managed credit card balances; however, it continued to face challenges in growing the Commercial Banking loan portfolio due to both weak market demand and tightened credit processes.
     The Corporation's capital and reserve ratios are among the strongest of any banking organization, with Tier 1 Capital of 10.2% and allowance for loan losses to period end loans of 2.63%. Strong capital position and sound liquidity management remain important factors in maintaining the Corporation's credit ratings.
APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Generally accepted accounting principles are complex and require management to apply significant judgments to various accounting, reporting and disclosure matters. Management of the Corporation must use assumptions and estimates to apply these principles where actual measurement is not possible or practical. For a complete discussion of the Corporation's significant accounting policies, see "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report on pages 82-87. Certain policies are considered critical because they are highly dependent upon subjective or complex judgments, assumptions and estimates. Changes in such estimates may have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. Management has reviewed the application of these policies with the Audit and Risk Management Committee of the Corporation's Board of Directors. For a discussion of applying critical accounting policies, see "Application of Critical Accounting Policies" beginning on page 28 in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report.
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS (All comparisons are to the same period in the prior year unless otherwise specified.)
Net income was $1.2 billion, or $1.09 per diluted share. This compares to net income of $818 million, or $0.71 per diluted share.
 
Interest Income and Interest Expense
The components of net interest income on a FTE basis for the periods indicated were as follows:
Interest Income
Interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, was $3.3 billion, an increase of $118 million, or 4%. A significant driver of the increase in interest income was the interest earned on conduit business assets consolidated as a result of the implementation of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN No. 46"), on December 31, 2003. The yield on interest earning assets decreased from 5.50% to 4.83%, a result of lower loan interest rates, primarily on installment loans, and the low yield on the conduit business assets.
     Total average earning assets increased $40.8 billion. This increase was primarily the result of consolidating $38.3 billion of average earning assets related to the conduit business as noted above. Average investment securities increased $19.3 billion, composed of $10.8 billion of other securities, including insurance-related, asset-backed, and other equity securities, and $8.5 billion of U.S. Government and Federal Agency securities. Offsetting these increases were reductions of $7.8 billion in the total average loan portfolio consisting of decreases of $9.1 billion in other loans, including the non-core portfolio and a $4.7 billion decrease in commercial loans, partially offset by increased installment loan balances of $6.0 billion.
Interest Expense
Interest expense was $1.1 billion, a decrease of $110 million, or 9%. Interest expense as a percentage of average earning assets decreased to 1.58% from 2.05%. Interest expense decreased as a result of the lower cost of long-term debt, which was partially offset by the additional interest paid on short-term borrowings related to the conduit business as part of the FIN No. 46 implementation discussed above. The cost of long-term debt decreased as a result of actions taken throughout 2003 to defensively reposition the balance sheet against rising interest rates.
Net Interest Income
Net interest income represents the spread on interest earning assets over interest-bearing liabilities as well as items such as loan fees, cash interest collections on problem loans, dividend income, interest reversals, and income or expense on derivatives used to manage interest rate risk. Net interest income was $2.2 billion, an increase of $228 million, or 11%. Net interest margin decreased to 3.25% from 3.45% as a result of the activity discussed above in the interest income and interest expense sections.
Noninterest Income
The components of noninterest income for the periods indicated were:
 
Quarterly Results
Banking fees and commissions of $486 million increased $46 million, or 10%. Increased premiums and commissions on insurance products primarily from Zurich, mutual fund and annuity commissions from improved investment sales in the Retail line of business and increased syndication fees were the primary drivers of this increase. Partially offsetting these were lower mortgage loan origination fees.
     Credit card revenue of $900 million increased $49 million, or 6%. This increase was primarily from higher average securitized loans, spread improvements and commercial card fees. This increase was partially offset by the impact of lower debit card interchange rates, which Visa negotiated with its customers in 2003. In April 2003, Visa reached an agreement to settle merchant litigation (the Corporation was not a party to the litigation) regarding debit card interchange reimbursement fees. In February 2004, Visa established new debit card interchange rates as permitted under the settlement agreement. The Corporation now estimates that Retail debit card revenue will decline approximately $36 million pretax on an annualized basis versus the rates that were in effect prior to the settlement, rather than the $60 million previously estimated.
     Service charges on deposits of $421 million increased $38 million, or 10%, resulting from higher Retail and Commercial deposit service charges. Fiduciary and investment management fees increased $32 million, or 20%, due to improved market conditions, a more favorable mix towards long-term assets under management and positive overall net inflows.
     Net securities gains from the investment portfolios were $129 million, compared to $69 million, an increase of $60 million, or 87%. These were the result of net gains in both the treasury investment and the principal investments portfolios.
     In the first quarter, trading produced gains of $56 million, an increase of $52 million. This change resulted from an increase in the fair value of the credit derivatives portfolio, which is used to hedge the commercial loan portfolio and limit exposures to specific credits, as well as strength in foreign exchange trading revenue.
     Other income increased $125 million during the first quarter to $177 million. This increase was primarily driven by gains on the sale of non-core home equity loans as well as a small gain from a credit card portfolio sale. During the quarter, $651 million of non-core home equity loans were sold. In addition, write-downs were taken to reflect the estimated market value of certain non-core home equity loans.
Noninterest Expense
Total noninterest expense of $2.7 billion increased $366 million. The components of noninterest expense for the periods indicated were:
 
Quarterly Results
Salaries and employee benefits of $1.3 billion reflected an increase of $107 million, or 9%. Despite a reduction in overall headcount, base and incentive compensation levels and benefits expense were impacted by the acquisition of Zurich and rising benefit costs. The expense related to the fair value method of accounting for stock option and stock purchase plans for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 amounted to $26 million and $16 million, respectively.
     Occupancy expense increased $14 million, or 9%, to $178 million primarily due to rising rental expenses and branch expansion costs.
     Equipment expense of $117 million reflected an increase of $6 million, or 5%, fueled by a rise in depreciation costs incurred on assets acquired in the Corporation's systems conversion efforts.
     Outside service fees and processing expense grew $56 million, or 21%, to $322 million. This increase resulted from higher contract programming fees as well as the addition of Zurich expenses.
     Marketing and development expense increased $64 million, or 28%, to $290 million primarily due to increased marketing spend in Card Services. Other expense increased $111 million, or 40%, to $388 million. This increase was primarily the result of insurance benefits and operational expenses for Zurich Life. Increased real estate expenses and legal expense accruals also contributed to the increase. These increases were partially offset by insurance recoveries and reduced costs related to other real estate owned. Other expense includes freight and postage expense of $63 million and $62 million for the first three months of 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Provision for Credit Losses
Provision for credit losses was $141 million for the first quarter of 2004, compared to $496 million for 2003. This decrease was mainly a result of improving credit quality which drove significant decreases in gross charge-offs and continued strength in recoveries and a smaller commercial loan portfolio. This improving credit quality led to the decision to release $180 million of corporate banking loan loss reserves through the provision for credit losses. The provision for credit losses includes a provision for loan losses of $123 million and $498 million, and a provision for unfunded commitments of $18 million and $(2) million for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
     Reserve for unfunded lending commitments was $508 million at March 31, 2004, compared to $490 million at December 31, 2003 and $600 million at March 31, 2003. The decrease from the prior year was mainly a result of improving credit quality.
Applicable Income Taxes
The Corporation's income before income taxes, applicable income tax expense and effective tax rate for each of the periods indicated were:
     Applicable income tax expense for all periods included the benefit from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments and general business tax credits, partially offset by the effect of nondeductible expenses.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS AND OTHER DATA
The Corporation is managed on a line of business basis. The business segments' financial results presented reflect the current organization of the Corporation. For a detailed discussion of the various business activities of the Corporation's business segments, see pages 35-53 of the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report.
     During the quarter, the Corporation transferred certain community development activities from the Corporate line of business to the Commercial Banking line of business. All prior period data for the Commercial Banking and Corporate lines of business have been adjusted to reflect this transfer.
     The following table summarizes income (loss) from continuing operations by line of business for the periods indicated:
     The information provided in each of the line of business tables is based on management information systems, assumptions and methodologies that are under continual review by management. Information provided beginning with the caption entitled "Financial Performance" is included herein for analytical purposes only.
 
Retail
Retail provides a broad range of financial products and services, including deposits, investments, loans, insurance, and online banking to consumers and small business customers.
 
Retail  continued
 
Retail  continued
Quarterly Results
Retail net income was $482 million, up $87 million, or 22%, driven by growth in deposits, loans and investment sales, partially offset by higher sales related expenses.
     Total revenue increased $147 million, or 9%, to $1.7 billion. Net interest income was $1.2 billion, up $119 million, or 11%, due primarily to the growth in core deposits and home equity loan balances, slightly offset by lower time deposits.
     Noninterest income was $487 million, up $28 million, or 6%, driven by higher deposit service charges, debit card volume, and investment sales revenue. This increase was partially offset by the impact of the lower debit card interchange rates, which Visa negotiated with its customers in 2003, and lower mortgage loan origination fees.
     Noninterest expense was $854 million, an increase of $11 million, or 1%, primarily due to higher commissions, incentive payments, benefits and marketing expense. These increases were partially offset by lower collections-related expenses as well as lower fraud and operating expenses.
     Provision for credit losses was $114 million, down $2 million, or 2%. This decrease reflects improved credit quality in most portfolios, partially offset by growth in loan portfolios. The net charge-off ratio, as a percentage of average loans, was 0.66%, an improvement from 0.78% in the prior year.
     The allowance for loan losses of $690 million represented 1.26% of period-end loans. Nonperforming assets were $561 million, down $228 million, or 29%, from the prior year.
 
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking offers a broad array of products, including global cash management, treasury services, capital markets, tax-oriented investments, commercial cards, lending and other noncredit products and services to corporate banking and middle market banking customers.
     Corporate banking serves primarily large corporations, financial institutions and commercial real estate entities. The Corporation's capital markets business is engaged in the origination, trading, and distribution of asset-backed securities, investment grade, tax-exempt and high yield securities, derivatives, foreign exchange and government bonds. Capital markets is also actively engaged in loan syndications, market research, advisory services, and private placements.
     Middle market banking serves the customer segment with annual revenues from approximately $10 million to $500 million, which includes corporations, municipalities and not-for-profit entities. These customers use a wide variety of services, with a significant portion using the Corporation exclusively for financial needs. The loan portfolio is diversified across a broad range of industries and geographic locations. In addition to credit, this customer segment actively uses the Corporation's cash management, international, capital markets, and investment management products and services.
 
Commercial Banking  continued
 
Commercial Banking  continued
Quarterly Results
Commercial Banking net income increased $205 million to $425 million, which included a $115 million after-tax reduction in the allowance for loan losses. Excluding the impact of the net allowance release, net income was $310 million, an increase of $90 million, or 41%, as a result of the continued improvement in credit quality.
     Effective December 31, 2003, assets and liabilities related to the asset-backed conduit business were consolidated, as the Corporation adopted FIN No. 46. Net revenue related to these assets was previously reported primarily as noninterest income. In the current quarter, the consolidation had relatively no impact to net income, however net
 
interest income increased $14 million and noninterest income decreased $10 million. See the "Asset-Backed Finance Programs" on pages 43-44 for additional information.
     Net interest income was essentially flat at $570 million, and reflected the impact of an 11% reduction in average loan volume, partially offset by improved collections on nonperforming loans and improvements in capital markets activities such as equity derivatives. While loan balances increased only slightly during the quarter, it represented the first increase in more than two years.
     Noninterest income was $431 million, up $27 million, or 7%, largely due to higher service charges on deposits, strong foreign exchange trading revenues, higher commercial card fees and increased syndication fees. Partially offsetting these improvements were lower gains on sales of tax-oriented investments and lower investment grade origination fees. Trading gains, reported in noninterest income, included gains of $8 million on the credit derivatives hedge portfolio, compared to losses of $54 million in the prior year. The fair value of purchased credit derivatives will generally increase as loan credit quality deteriorates and decrease as loan credit quality improves.
     Noninterest expense increased 7% to $605 million, primarily due to increased compensation expense.
     Credit quality continued to improve, as indicated by a $136 million decline in net charge-offs. The reduced size of the Corporate Banking loan portfolio and the continued improvement in credit quality led to a $180 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses, related to both corporate banking and middle market. The allowance for loan losses represented 3.78% of period-end loans, a decrease from 4.17% in the prior year. Nonperforming loans declined $941 million, or 53%, to $820 million, reflecting declines of $578 million, or 71%, in corporate banking and $363 million, or 38%, in middle market.
     During the second half of 2003, the U.S. Treasury began to compensate the Corporation for services provided using special issue securities resulting in reduced corporate banking deposits.
 
Card Services
Card Services offers customers co-brand, affinity and other credit cards, including cards associated with leading corporations, financial institutions, universities, sports franchises and affinity organizations. All of these cards carry the respective Visa or MasterCard brand names. Affinity organizations and co-brand partners provide their endorsement of credit card programs, provide mailing lists, and may also conduct marketing activities and provide awards under award programs. The terms of these agreements generally range from 3 to 10 years. No single co-branded or affinity relationship represents more than 10% of total managed revenue, net of interest expense.
     With approximately 52 million cards in circulation, Card Services is the third-largest credit card provider in the United States and the largest Visa credit card issuer in the world. Card Services is also a leader in online card marketing and customer service, with approximately 6 million registered users of its website.
     Through securitization, the Corporation transforms a substantial portion of its credit card receivables into securities, which are sold to investors. Securitization impacts the Corporation's consolidated balance sheet by removing those credit card receivables that have been sold and by reclassifying those credit card receivables whose ownership has been transformed into certificate form (referred to as "seller's interest") from loans to investments. Gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables, net of amortization of transaction costs and amortization from securitization repayments, is reported in other income. Securitization also impacts the Corporation's consolidated income statement by reclassifying interest income and fees, interchange income, credit losses and recoveries related to securitized receivables as credit card revenue. Credit card interest income and fees, credit losses and recoveries related to seller's interest are reclassified as investment income in net interest income.
 
Card Services  continued
Quarterly Results  Reported Basis
Card Services net income was $319 million, up $71 million, or 29%, as spread improvements and higher securitized receivable balances were partially offset by higher marketing expenses and increased provision for credit losses as a result of an increase in allowance for loan losses.
     Total revenue increased $235 million, or 22%, to $1.3 billion as net interest income increased $174 million, or 56%, to $483 million and noninterest income increased $61 million, or 8%, to $842 million. The increase in net interest income was primarily the result of spread improvement, as average total receivables of $39 billion were relatively flat. The increase in noninterest income was primarily the result of higher securitized loans and spread improvements, as well as a small gain from a portfolio sale. Paymentech Inc., the Corporation's merchant card processor, reported a 23% increase in total transactions and a 26% increase in volume.
     Noninterest expense was $641 million, an increase of $114 million, or 22%, from the prior year due primarily to higher marketing expenses.
     Provision for credit losses increased $10 million, or 6%, to $171 million over the prior year. The net charge-off ratio was 4.24%, down from 5.24% in the prior year. The 30-day delinquency ratio increased to 3.05% from 2.81% in the prior year.
 
Card Services  continued
The Corporation evaluates its Card Services line of business performance on a "managed basis." The managed basis presentation is a common industry convention that presents securitized loans, for balance sheet purposes, in total managed loan balances. The reported allowance for loan losses is not adjusted for managed loans. The industry convention continues to include the gain or loss on securitization in the managed financial information.
     The Corporation manages its Card Services operations on a managed basis because the receivables that are securitized are subject to underwriting standards comparable to the owned portfolio and are serviced by operating personnel without regard to ownership. The Corporation believes that investors should be informed, and often request information, about the credit performance of the entire managed portfolio in order to understand the quality of the Card Services originations and the related credit risks inherent in the owned portfolio and retained interests in securitizations. In addition, the Corporation funds its Card Services operations, reviews operating results and makes decisions about allocating resources, such as employees and capital, on a managed basis. See "Loan Securitizations" on pages 42-44 of this report and Note 11, "Credit Card Securitizations," on pages 92-94 of the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report for additional information related to the Corporation's securitization activity.
 
Card Services  continued
     The following table presents Card Services information on a managed (Non-GAAP) basis.
 
Card Services  continued
     For additional footnote detail see pages 9, 13 and 16.
Quarterly Results  Managed (Non-GAAP) Basis
The Corporation believes that it is more meaningful to review performance on a managed basis as the on-balance sheet portfolio has a greater percentage of new originations and, therefore, is less seasoned. The following is a discussion of items affecting the managed portfolio.
     Total managed revenue increased $293 million, or 15%, to $2.2 billion as managed net interest income increased $280 million, or 19%, to $1.8 billion and managed noninterest income increased $13 million, or 3%, to $436 million. The increase in managed net interest income was primarily the result of spread improvements and higher average managed receivables. Average managed loans were $74.6 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion, or 2%. Managed margin increased to 9.47% from 8.16% in the prior year. The increase in managed noninterest income was primarily the result of a $3.7 billion, or 10%, increase in charge volume, which generated higher interchange income and a small gain from a portfolio sale, partially offset by higher volume-driven payments to partners and rewards expense. Paymentech Inc., the Corporation's merchant card processor, reported a 23% increase in total transactions and a 26% increase in total volume.
     Managed noninterest expense was $641 million, an increase of $114 million, or 22%, from the prior year due primarily to higher marketing expenses.
     The managed provision for credit losses increased $68 million, or 7%, to $1.0 billion, primarily driven by higher managed loan balances, higher non-bankruptcy losses and a $40 million increase in the allowance for loan losses in the quarter. Managed credit ratios remain strong. The managed net charge-off ratio increased slightly to 5.35% from 5.29% in the prior year. The 30-day managed delinquency ratio decreased to 3.75% from 4.08% in the prior year.
 
Card Services  continued
     The following table reconciles line items presented on a reported basis with those presented on a managed (Non-GAAP) basis:
 
Card Services  continued
For additional footnote detail see pages 9, 13 and 16.
 
The Investment Management Group (IMG) provides investment, insurance, personal trust and private banking services to individuals. IMG also provides investment and investment-related services, including retirement, custody and securities lending to institutions.
Investment Management Group
 
Investment Management Group  continued
 
Investment Management Group  continued
Investment Management Group net income totaled $133 million, an increase of $60 million, or 82%, driven by the acquisition of Zurich, an improved market, net inflows of long-term assets and strong deposit growth.
Quarterly Results
     Assets under management increased $30 billion, or 19%, to $188.3 billion. Equity and fixed income assets increased 48% and 35%, respectively. A significant portion of the increase was driven by the institutional channel, which increased $18.4 billion, or 23%. The Zurich acquisition added $5.1 billion to fixed income and the institutional channel. The Security Capital acquisition added $3.7 billion to equity funds. One Group mutual fund assets increased $5.4 billion, or 6%, to $102.9 billion.
     Net interest income increased $80 million, or 90%, to $169 million, largely attributable to Zurich and continued strong deposit growth, primarily in private client services. Total average deposits were $12 billion, an increase of $2.1 billion, or 21%.
     Noninterest income increased $120 million, or 54%, to $343 million, primarily driven by Zurich. In addition, improved market conditions, a more favorable mix towards long-term assets under management and positive overall net inflows contributed to the increase.
     Noninterest expense increased $110 million, or 57%, to $303 million, primarily the result of salaries and benefits and other operating expenses related to Zurich.
     The $4 million decrease in provision for credit losses reflected lower net charge-offs and strong recoveries, as credit quality in private client services continued to improve.
 
Corporate includes treasury activities, certain investment portfolios excluding Zurich, non-core portfolios transferred from the Retail line of business, the discontinued corporate trust business, other unallocated corporate expenses, and any gains or losses from corporate transactions.
Corporate
 
Corporate  continued
Corporate net loss totaled $126 million, compared with a net loss of $118 million.
Quarterly Results
     Corporate net loss from continuing operations included the following pretax components:
     Treasury net interest expense was $182 million, an $82 million increase as a result of lower interest rates.
     Net investment securities gains were $122 million, a result of net gains in both principal investments and the treasury investment portfolio. This compared to net securities gains of $69 million in the prior year.
     Corporate expenses were $231 million, compared to $120 million in the prior year. The increase over the prior year resulted from higher compensation and merger-related costs.
     In addition, during the quarter, $651 million of non-core home equity loans were sold at a gain and additional write-downs were taken to reflect the estimated market value of certain non-core home equity loans. The net effect of these actions decreased the net loss by $55 million. As a result of these actions and the continued liquidation of the portfolios, end of period non-core loan balances were $7 billion, down 49% from the prior year. Provision for credit losses was $46 million, a decrease of $43 million from the prior year, driven by lower loan balances.
 
BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS
(All comparisons are to December 31, 2003, unless otherwise specified.)
At March 31, 2004, total assets were $319.6 billion, a decrease of $7.0 billion, or 2%. The Corporation's assets were primarily composed of loans of $137.5 billion, investment securities of $86.9 billion, and interests in purchased receivables of $28.9 billion. Average earning assets for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 were $278.3 billion and contributed $3.3 billion to the Corporation's earnings, for a yield of 4.83%.
     The Corporation's total liabilities were $295.0 billion at March 31, 2004, a decrease of $8.2 billion, or 3%. Total deposits were $165.9 billion, short term borrowings were $41.0 billion, and long term debt was $45.3 billion. Average interest-bearing liabilities for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 were $226.6 billion, resulting in interest expense of $1.1 billion at an average rate of 1.94%.
     Investment Securities totaled $86.9 billion compared with $85.0 billion. The addition of $1.9 billion of U.S. government agency securities was primarily responsible for the increase.
     Interests in purchased receivables, which represent undivided interests in pools of receivables and similar types of assets, were $28.9 billion, a decrease of $4.0 billion or 12%. The decrease resulted from a reduction in asset-backed conduit transaction volumes. For a further discussion of these assets see Asset-backed Finance Programs beginning on page 43.
     Other assets increased $3.3 billion to $19.0 billion. This increase was primarily the result of unsettled securities sales.
     Total deposits were $165.9 billion compared to $164.6 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion. Higher account balances contributed to the $4.5 billion, or 5%, increase in savings deposit balances. Contributing to the $775 million decrease in demand deposits was the migration of corporate trust client balances to JPMorgan Chase as a result of the sale of the corporate trust business in 2003. Time deposits decreased $889 million primarily due to the reduced interest rate environment.
     Other short term borrowings were $41.0 billion compared to $47.7 billion, a decrease of $6.7 billion or 14%. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in commercial paper issued by the Corporation's conduit business as a result of the decrease in transaction volumes.
     Other liabilities increased $4.2 billion to $16.9 billion as a result of unsettled securities purchases.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk is an inherent part of the Corporation's business activity. The Corporation's ability to properly and effectively identify, measure, monitor, and report risk in its business activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. The diversity of the Corporation's lines of business helps reduce the impact of volatility in any particular area on its operating results as a whole.
Risk Types
There are seven major risk types identified by the Corporation:
 
     The following discussion of the Corporation's risk management process focuses primarily on developments since December 31, 2003. The Corporation's risk management processes for credit, liquidity, market and operational risks have not substantially changed from year-end and are described in detail in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report, beginning on page 54.
LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT
At March 31, 2004, the Corporation and its principal banks had the following long- and short-term debt ratings:
     The Corporation's principal insurance subsidiaries had the following financial strength ratings:
 
     In the event of a disruption in the financial markets, the Corporation has a number of liquidity sources it could draw upon to meet liquidity needs. These include selling investment portfolio securities, entering into repurchase agreements, securitizing loan assets, and borrowing through the Federal Home Loan Bank system. Depending upon the nature of the disruption, funding may also be available from the Federal Reserve discount window. Through the Corporation's contingency funding plan, stress scenarios are reviewed where access to unsecured funding is extremely limited or unavailable. Scenario testing as of March 31, 2004 indicates that the Corporation has sufficient sources of liquidity to meet anticipated needs.
     For analytical purposes, although management currently believes the likelihood of a downgrade is remote, if the Corporation's long-term debt ratings were to be downgraded to the next rating point, the ongoing cost to raise funding in the financial markets would likely increase 3 to 15 basis points (reflecting a range of terms from three to ten years). The number of investors willing to lend to the Corporation would also likely decrease following a downgrade.
MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT
Market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads in market risk sensitive instruments. Market risk arises in both trading and non-trading portfolios. The section on "Market Risk Management-Nontrading Activities" in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report on pages 60-61 provides an overview of our approach to managing market risks arising from non-trading portfolios. In these asset and liability management activities, policies are in place to closely manage structural interest rate risk. Disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments, which reflect changes in market prices and rates, can be found in Note 24, "Fair Value of Financial Instruments" in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report on pages 105-107.
Market Risk Management  Trading Activities
Through its trading activities, the Corporation strives to take advantage of profit opportunities due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads. The Corporation's trading activities are primarily customer-oriented. For example, cash instruments are bought and sold to satisfy customers' investment needs. Derivative contracts are initially entered into to meet the risk management needs of customers. The Corporation enters into subsequent transactions to manage the level of risk in accordance with approved limits. In order to accommodate customers, an inventory of capital markets instruments is carried, and access to market liquidity is maintained by providing bid-offer prices to other market makers. The Corporation may also take proprietary trading positions in various capital markets cash instruments and derivatives, and these positions are designed to profit from anticipated changes in market factors. Activity is focused in OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) markets, with very little activity in emerging markets.
 
     Many trading positions are kept open for brief periods of time, often less than one day. Other positions may be held for longer periods. Trading positions are carried at estimated fair value, with realized and unrealized gains and losses included in noninterest income as trading income.
Value-At-Risk
For trading portfolios, value-at-risk measures the maximum fair value the Corporation could be reasonably expected to lose on a trading position, given a specified confidence level and time horizon. Value-at-risk limits and exposure are monitored daily for each significant trading portfolio. Value-at-risk is not reported here for credit derivatives used to hedge specific credits in the loan portfolio. However, stress testing is regularly performed for these credit derivative positions. See discussion of credit derivatives under the "Trading Derivative Instruments" section in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report on page 71. Value-at-risk was calculated for derivatives considered to be part of the trading portfolio. Value-at-risk calculations do not include the principal investments portfolio, which is carried at fair value with realized and unrealized gains and losses reported in income. However, foreign exchange exposures that arise from the principal investments portfolio are included in the value-at-risk calculations.
     The Corporation applies statistical variance-covariance and historical simulation models to its portfolios of cash and derivative positions, including options, to calculate value-at-risk. The variance-covariance model estimates the volatility of returns on individual assets, as well as the correlation of changes of asset price pairs, then computes the volatility of changes in the market values of the portfolios (i.e., the value-at-risk results) by applying each portfolio's statistical sensitivities to the correlations. The historical simulation model calculates the value of a portfolio under many daily historical market scenarios and estimates the value-at-risk based on the volatility of those portfolio values. Historical observations of market variables span one year for interest rate and FX markets and two years for credit, equity, and commodity markets.
     The Corporation's value-at-risk calculations measure potential losses in fair value using a 99% confidence level and a one-day time horizon. This equates to 2.33 standard deviations from the mean under a normal distribution. This means that, on average, daily profits and losses are expected to exceed value-at-risk one out of every one hundred overnight trading days.
     The value-at-risk in the Corporation's trading portfolio was as follows (excluding credit derivatives used to hedge specific credits in the loan portfolio with a net notional amount of $2.9 billion and $3.2 billion at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively):
 
     Interest rate risk was the predominant type of market risk to which the Corporation was exposed during the first quarter of 2004. At March 31, 2004, approximately 55% of primary market risk exposures were related to interest rate risk. Approximately 30% of the market risk exposures were related to credit spread risk. Currency exchange rate risk accounted for 10% and equity risk accounted for 5% of primary market risk exposures. Commodity risk exposure was immaterial at quarter-end. This is the first quarter where credit spread risk has been broken out individually; it was previously included with interest rate risk.
 
     At March 31, 2004, aggregate portfolio market risk exposures were 25% lower than at year-end 2003. The decrease in exposure is primarily due to the reduction of currency risk associated with G-7 government bonds in the investment portfolio. As of March 26, 2004, all foreign exchange exposures in the foreign bond program were reduced to zero.
     Value-at-risk levels are regularly backtested to validate the model by comparing predictions with actual results. For the three months ended March 31, 2004, backtesting results for the high volume capital markets portfolios and the mortgage pipeline appear in the following graph:
     These backtesting results reflect only the higher-volume trading portfolios that are actively managed and marked-to-market on a daily basis (i.e., the capital markets trading portfolios and the mortgage pipeline in the consumer lending business). Based on a 99% confidence interval in predicting actual profit or loss, the Corporation would expect actual profit or loss to exceed value-at-risk one day for every one hundred days. As shown in the graph above, there were no days during the first quarter where the actual loss exceeded the calculated value-at-risk. The Corporation's value-at-risk measure provides a conservative measure of the level of market risk.
Market Risk Management  Non-Trading Activities
Interest rate risk exposure in the Corporation's core non-trading business activities (i.e., asset/liability management ("ALM") position) is a result of reprice, option, and basis risks associated with on- and off-balance sheet positions. Reprice risk represents timing mismatches in the Corporation's ability to alter contractual rates earned on financial assets or paid on liabilities in response to changes in market interest rates. Basis risk refers to the potential for change in the underlying relationship between market rates or indices, which subsequently result in a narrowing of the spread earned on a loan or investment relative to its cost of funds. Option risk arises from "embedded options" present in many financial instruments such as interest rate options, loan prepayment options and deposit early withdrawal options. These provide customers and investors opportunities to take advantage of directional changes in rates, which could have an adverse impact on the Corporation's margin performance. Embedded options are complex risk positions that are difficult to predict and offset, and are a significant component of the interest rate risk exposure for the Corporation.
 
     Based on immediate parallel shocks, the Corporation's earnings-at-risk to rising interest rates, versus base-case, has improved. The Corporation's 12-month pretax earnings sensitivity profile was as follows:
     At March 31, 2004, given the current interest rate environment, a 100 bp interest rate change could result in negative or near zero interest rates, as a result the 100 bp change has not been included.
     The interest rate risk position reflects management's desire to maintain a defensive bias against an increase in interest rates. The increase in measured benefit from rising interest rates relative to year-end is a result of the decline in long-term rates.
CREDIT PORTFOLIO COMPOSITION
Selected Statistical Information
The significant components of credit risk and the related ratios for the periods indicated were as follows:
 
 
Loan Composition
The Corporation's loan portfolios at the periods indicated were as follows:
     Loans held for sale, which are classified as loans, are carried at lower of cost or fair value and totaled $11.1 billion, $12.0 billion, $10.7 billion, $10.2 billion and $7.9 billion at March 31, 2004, December 31, 2003, September 30, 2003, June 30, 2003, and March 31, 2003, respectively. At March 31, 2004, loans held for sale included Card Services loans of $5.4 billion, Commercial Banking loans of $497 million and other consumer loans of $5.2 billion.
Credit Card Receivables
The Corporation manages its Card Services operations on a managed basis because the receivables that are securitized are subject to underwriting standards comparable to the owned portfolio and are serviced by operating personnel without regard to ownership. As a result, the Corporation reports credit card receivables for the Card Services line of business on both a reported basis and managed basis. Reported credit card receivables include those receivables held in portfolio or for sale and reported on the balance sheet as total owned loans. Managed credit card receivables include reported credit card receivables and credit card receivables which have been transferred to a trust and transformed into investments (seller's interest) or subsequently sold to investors. The Corporation believes it is more meaningful to analyze credit performance on a managed basis since the on-balance sheet portfolio has a greater percentage of new originations and, therefore, is less seasoned.
     The following table highlights the Card Services line of business asset quality on both a reported basis and managed basis (Non-GAAP) for the periods presented:
 
     The managed net charge-off ratio increased to 5.35% in 2004 from 5.29% in 2003. The 30-day managed delinquency ratio decreased to 3.75% from 3.90% at December 31, 2003. The reported net charge-off ratio was 4.24%, down from 5.24% in the prior year. The 30-day reported delinquency ratio increased to 3.05% from 3.31% at December 31, 2003. Card Services credit quality has remained strong reflecting management's continued emphasis on prudent credit risk management including disciplined underwriting and account management practices targeted to the prime and super prime credit scores. Credit risk management tools used to manage the level and volatility of losses for credit card accounts have been continually updated, and, where appropriate, these tools were adjusted to reduce credit risk. The credit card portfolio also has national geographic diversification.
     Future charge-offs in the credit card portfolio and overall credit quality are subject to uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ from current and historic performance. This could include the direction and level of loan delinquencies, changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcy trends, portfolio seasoning, interest rate movements and portfolio mix, among other things. While current economic and credit data suggests that consumer credit quality will not significantly deteriorate, significant deterioration in the general economy could materially change these expectations.
At March 31, 2004, commercial and industrial loans totaled $36.3 billion, which represented 69% of the Commercial Banking loan portfolio.
Commercial and Industrial Loans
     The more significant borrower industry concentrations of the Commercial Banking commercial and industrial portfolio for the periods indicated were as follows:
Commercial real estate loans represent credit extended for real estate related purposes to borrowers or counterparties who are primarily in the real estate development or investment business and for which the primary source of repayment of the loan is from the sale, lease, rental, management, operations or refinancing of the property. At March 31, 2004, commercial real estate loans totaled $11 billion, which represented 21% of the Commercial Banking portfolio.
Commercial Real Estate
     Commercial real estate lending is conducted in several lines of business with the majority of these loans originated by corporate banking primarily through its specialized National Commercial Real Estate Group. This group's focus is lending to targeted regional and national real estate developers and homebuilders. As of March 31, 2004, National Commercial Real Estate Group's loan outstandings totaled $9.1 billion, or 83% of the commercial real estate portfolio.
 
     The commercial real estate loan portfolio by both collateral location and property type for the periods indicated were as follows:
ASSET QUALITY
The Corporation places loans on nonaccrual status as follows:
Nonperforming Assets
 
     Credit quality improved during the first quarter as nonperforming assets declined $438 million from the prior quarter. In Commercial Banking, nonperforming loans declined $216 million from the prior quarter. This decline was a result of both an improving economic environment and risk management actions, including loan sales and management of individual credits, which has led to pay-offs, pay-downs and restructurings.
     Nonperforming loans within Retail at March 31, 2004 were $504 million, a decrease of $36 million from the prior quarter. The decrease occurred in the real estate, auto and small business portfolios. Corporate line of business nonperforming loans at March 31, 2004 totaled $433 million, down from $582 million at year-end. The decrease occurred primarily in the non-core home equity portfolio.
The Corporation records charge-offs as follows:
Charge-offs
     The timing and amount of the charge-off on consumer loans will depend on the type of loan, giving consideration to available collateral, as well as the circumstances giving rise to the delinquency. The Corporation adheres to uniform guidelines published by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council in charging off consumer loans.
 
     The Corporation's net charge-offs (recoveries) for the quarterly periods indicated were as follows:
 
     Net charge-offs for the first quarter 2004 totaled $272 million, down from $495 million a year ago. Net charge-offs decreased $812 million from the prior quarter, which included the $652 million of write-downs taken on home equity loans transferred to held for sale in the non-core portfolio. Decreases in net charge-offs and net charge-off rates were realized in all lines of business, reflecting prudent underwriting and portfolio management practices combined with a generally improving economic environment.
     Retail net charge-offs for the first quarter for 2004 totaled $95 million, down from $102 million a year ago. Retail net charge-offs decreased $53 million from the prior quarter due to credit quality improvements across all major loan portfolios as well as the absence of various writedowns in other personal loans.
     Commercial Banking had net recoveries in the first quarter of 2004 totaling $8 million, compared to $128 million and $66 million of net charge-offs a year ago and in the fourth quarter of 2003, respectively, reflecting both an improving economic environment and the continuing impact of risk management actions.
     Card Services net charge-offs for the first quarter 2004 totaled $131 million, down from $161 million a year ago and $153 million in the fourth quarter of 2003.
     Corporate net charge-offs for the first quarter 2004 totaled $56 million, down from $102 million a year ago. The decrease is primarily attributed to reduced average balances resulting from the continued liquidation of the non-core portfolios. Corporate net charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 2003 totaled $717 million and included the $652 million of write-downs taken on the home equity loans transferred to held for sale in the non-core portfolio.
     Future charge-offs and overall credit quality are subject to uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ from current and historic performance. This could include the direction and level of loan delinquencies, changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcy trends, portfolio seasoning, interest rate movements, regulatory requirements and portfolio mix, among other things. While current economic and credit data suggests that credit quality will not significantly deteriorate, significant deterioration in the general economy could materially change these expectations.
 
A summary of the Corporation's Commercial Banking loan sales, excluding trading, syndications, syndication-related activity and trade finance transactions, for the quarters indicated were as follows:
Loan Sales
     The Corporation sells Commercial Banking loans in the normal course of its business activities and as one alternative to manage credit risk. These loans are subject to the Corporation's overall risk management practices. When a loan is sold or transferred to held for sale, any loss is evaluated to determine whether it resulted from credit deterioration or other conditions. Based upon this evaluation, losses resulting from credit deterioration are recorded as charge-offs. Losses or gains deemed to be from other than credit deterioration are recorded as losses or gains on sale in noninterest income. Subsequent writedowns in fair value on loans held for sale are reflected in other noninterest income.
     Loans classified as held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or market value. Accordingly, these loans are no longer included in the evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses.
ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND CREDIT LOSSES
The allowance for credit losses is maintained at a level that in management's judgment is adequate to provide for estimated probable credit losses inherent in various on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments. This process includes deriving probable loss estimates based on historical loss ratios, portfolio stress testing and management's judgment. For further discussion on determining the allowance for loan and credit losses, see "Allowance for Loan and Credit Losses" beginning on page 67 in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report.
 
     The changes in the Corporation's allowance for loan losses for the quarters indicated were as follows:
 
     The changes in the Corporation's reserve for unfunded commitments for the quarters indicated were as follows:
Composition of Allowance for Loan Losses
While the allowance for loan losses is available to absorb losses in the entire portfolio, the allowance for loan losses determined separately for each line of business as of the dates indicated were as follows:
Components of Allowance for Credit Losses
The Corporation determines allowance for credit losses levels based upon the probable losses in the credit portfolios. Several methodologies are employed for estimating probable losses. A detailed discussion of the process is presented in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report beginning on page 55.
     The allowance for credit losses of $3.8 billion is comprised of an allowance for loan losses of $3.3 billion and a reserve for unfunded commitments and standby letters of credit of $0.5 billion.
     The table below presents the components of the probable loan loss estimate as of the dates indicated:
     The allowance for loan losses at March 31, 2004 totaled $3.3 billion compared to $3.5 billion at December 31, 2003. The allowance for loan losses at March 31, 2004 represented 2.63% of period-end loans and 205% of nonperforming loans, compared to 2.75% and 178%, respectively, at December 31, 2003. The asset-specific and expected loss components of the allowance for credit losses decreased from December 31, 2003 reflecting improvement in credit quality. The stress component represents management's estimate of probable loss inherent in the portfolio from the overall economic environment. Despite reductions in the asset specific and expected loss components of the allowance for loan losses, the stress component was relatively unchanged reflecting management's concern over the impact of the competitive environment on recent originations and continued uncertainty existing in the economic and geopolitical environment. The reserve for credit losses related to unfunded commitments and standby letters of credit was $508 million and $490 million at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
In the normal course of business, the Corporation uses a variety of derivative financial instruments in its trading activity, asset and liability management, to a lesser extent in its mortgage operations, and to manage certain currency translation
 
exposures of foreign entities. These instruments include interest rate, currency, equity and commodity swaps, forwards, spot, futures, options, caps, floors, forward rate agreements, credit derivatives and other conditional or exchange contracts, and include both exchange-traded and over-the-counter contracts. A detailed discussion of accounting policies for trading and hedging derivative instruments is presented in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report beginning on page 71.
Trading Derivative Instruments
Derivative financial instruments used in trading include swaps, forwards, futures, options, and other conditional or exchange contracts in the interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity and commodity markets. The estimated fair values are based on quoted market prices or valuation models using current market information. Realized and unrealized gains and losses, including any interest income or expense on derivative instruments, are recorded in noninterest income as trading.
     The Corporation also uses credit derivatives (primarily single name credit default swaps) and short bond positions, as protection against the deterioration of credit quality on commercial loans and loan commitments. The change in fair value of credit derivative instruments is included in trading results in the Corporation's financial statements, while any credit assessment change in the underlying credit exposure is reflected in the allocated credit reserves. Credit derivatives purchased to economically hedge loans are not considered in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses. At March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, the net notional amount of credit derivatives associated with the Corporation's commercial credit exposure risk management totaled $2.9 billion and $3.2 billion. The fair value of these credit derivatives was $(78.3) million and $(100.1) million as of March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003. Trading gains and losses related to credit derivatives associated with the Corporation's commercial credit exposure risk management were a gain of $8 million and a loss of $54 million for the first quarter of 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Asset and Liability Management Hedging Derivative Instruments
Derivatives are an integral component of the Corporation's asset/liability management activities and associated management of interest rate risk. In general, the assets and liabilities generated through the ordinary course of business activities do not naturally create offsetting positions with respect to repricing, basis or maturity characteristics. Using derivative instruments, principally plain vanilla interest rate swaps (ALM swaps), interest rate sensitivity is adjusted to maintain the desired interest rate risk profile.
Cash Flow Hedges
Cash flow hedges primarily represent hedges of variable rate interest-bearing instruments. The effective portion of the change in fair value of the hedging derivative is recorded in Accumulated Other Adjustments to Stockholders' Equity, which is reclassified into earnings in a manner consistent with the earnings pattern of the underlying hedged instrument or transaction. At March 31, 2004, the projected total amount of such reclassification into earnings over the next twelve months would be a decrease in net interest income of $232 million after-tax $364 million pretax). This decrease, along with the contractual interest on the underlying variable rate debt, achieves the overall intended result of converting the variable rate to a specified fixed rate and is included in the Corporation's analysis of interest rate exposure. These projections involve the use of currently forecasted interest rates over the next twelve months. These rates, and the resulting classification into earnings, are subject to change. The maximum length of time for which exposure to the variability of future cash flows for forecasted transactions is hedged is 62 months. During the first quarter of 2004, a $15.0 million deferred loss was reclassified into earnings based on a determination that the full amount of hedged forecasted transaction was no longer expected to occur.
(
     The amount of hedge ineffectiveness recognized for cash flow and fair value hedges for the three months ended March 31, 2004 was a gain of $5 million recognized in noninterest income. No component of a hedging derivative instrument's gain or loss is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The Corporation has no non-derivative instruments designated as hedges.
 
Credit Exposure Resulting from Derivative Financial Instruments
Credit exposure from derivative financial instruments arises from the risk of a counterparty default on the derivative contract. The amount of loss created by the default is the replacement cost or current fair value of the defaulted contract. The Corporation utilizes master netting agreements whenever possible to reduce its credit exposure from counterparty defaults. These agreements allow the netting of contracts with unrealized losses against contracts with unrealized gains to the same counterparty, in the event of a counterparty default.
     The impact of these master netting agreements for the periods indicated was as follows:
     The credit risk associated with exchange-traded derivative financial instruments is limited to the relevant clearinghouse. Written options do not expose the Corporation to credit risk, except to the extent of the underlying risk in a financial instrument that the Corporation may be obligated to acquire under certain written put options. Written caps and floors do not expose the Corporation to credit risk.
 
LOAN SECURITIZATIONS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ACTIVITIES
Loan Securitizations
Investors in the beneficial interests of the securitized loans have no recourse against the Corporation if cash flows generated from the securitized loans are inadequate to service the obligations of the qualified special purpose entity ("QSPE") that issues the securitized loans. To help ensure that adequate funds are available in the event of a shortfall, the Corporation is required to deposit funds into cash spread accounts if the excess spread falls below certain minimum levels. Spread accounts are funded from excess spread that would normally be returned to the Corporation. In addition, various forms of other credit enhancements are provided to protect more senior investor interests from loss. Credit enhancements associated with credit card securitizations, such as cash collateral or spread accounts, totaled $137 million and $24 million at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, and are classified on the balance sheet as other assets at amounts approximating fair value.
     The following comprised the Corporation's managed credit card loans for the periods indicated:
     For further discussion of the Corporation's loan securitization process and other related disclosures, see pages 73 and 92-94 of the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report.
Off-Balance Sheet Activities
In the normal course of business, the Corporation is a party to a number of activities that contain credit, market and operational risk that are not reflected in whole or in part in the Corporation's consolidated financial statements. Such activities include: traditional off-balance sheet credit-related financial instruments; commitments under capital and operating leases and long-term debt; credit enhancement and liquidity facilities associated with the commercial paper conduit programs; joint venture activities; and other contractual obligations.
Credit-Related Financial Instruments
The Corporation provides customers with off-balance sheet credit support through loan commitments, standby letters of credit and guarantees, as well as commercial letters of credit. Summarized credit-related financial instruments at March 31, 2004 were as follows:
     Since many of the unused commitments are expected to expire unused or be only partially used, the total amount of unused commitments in the preceding table does not necessarily represent future cash requirements.
Lease Commitments, Long-Term Debt and Other
The Corporation has entered into a number of long-term leasing arrangements of banking facilities to support the ongoing activities of the Corporation. The required payments under such commitments and long-term debt at March 31, 2004 were as follows:
 
Asset-Backed Finance Programs
The Corporation is an active participant in the asset-backed securities business where it helps meet customers' financing needs by providing access to the commercial paper markets through variable interest entities, known as multi-seller conduits. These entities are separate bankruptcy-remote corporations in the business of purchasing interests in, and making loans secured by, receivables pools and other financial assets pursuant to agreements with customers. The entities fund their purchases and loans through the issuance of highly-rated commercial paper. The primary source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flow from the pools of assets. Investors in the commercial paper have no recourse to the general assets of the Corporation. Customers benefit from such structured financing transactions as these transactions provide an ongoing source of asset liquidity, access to the capital markets, and a potentially favorable cost of financing.
     As of March 31, 2004, the Corporation administered multi-seller conduits with a total program limit of $70 billion and with $32 billion in commercial paper outstanding. The multi-seller conduits were rated at least A-1 by S&P, P-1 by Moody's and F1 by Fitch.
     These multi-seller conduits are a type of variable interest entity ("VIE"), as defined by FIN No. 46. From the Corporation's perspective, these entities had historically met all of the requirements to be accounted for as independent entities, and, therefore had not been consolidated prior to the adoption of FIN No. 46 on December 31, 2003. Each of the multi-seller conduits administered by the Corporation has stand-alone financial statements, which are independently audited on an annual basis.
     As administrator of the multi-seller conduits, the Corporation provides transaction origination services, asset portfolio monitoring, treasury and financial administration services for these entities. The Corporation structures financing transactions for customers such that the receivables and other financial instruments financed through the multi-seller conduits are appropriately diversified and credit enhanced to support the conduits' commercial paper issuances. The Corporation does not service these assets and does not transfer its own receivables or other financial instruments into the multi-seller conduits it administers. Each conduit has program documents and investment policies, which govern the types of assets and structures permitted by the conduit. The mix of assets is principally trade receivables, auto loans and leases and credit card receivables, although one conduit has publicly-rated marketable investment securities.
     The commercial paper issued by the conduits is supported by a deal specific credit enhancement, which is generally structured to cover more than the expected losses on the pool of assets. The deal-specific credit enhancement is typically in the form of over-collateralization, but may also include any combination of the following: recourse to the seller or originator, cash collateral accounts, letters of credit, excess spread, retention of subordinated interests or third-party guarantees. In a limited number of cases, the Corporation provides the deal-specific credit enhancement as a financial arrangement for the customer. As of March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, the Corporation provided such deal-specific enhancements to customers in the form of subordinated interests totaling $232 million and $199 million, respectively. These subordinated interest positions were included in interests in purchased receivables and loans on the Corporation's balance sheets as of March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003.
     For three of the multi-seller conduits, the commercial paper investors have access to a second loss credit protection in the form of program-wide credit enhancement. The program-wide credit enhancement consists of unfunded letters of credit from the Corporation and a surety bond from an AAA rated monoline insurance company. The unfunded letters of credit from the Corporation to these conduits totaled $1.1 billion as of March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003. One conduit has only deal specific credit enhancements provided by other financial institutions.
     As a means of ensuring timely repayment of the commercial paper, each asset pool financed by the conduits has a minimum of 100% deal-specific liquidity facility associated with it. In the unlikely event of a disruption in the commercial paper market or in the event an asset pool is removed from the conduit, the administrator can draw on the liquidity facility to repay the maturing commercial paper. The liquidity facilities are typically in the form of asset purchase agreements and are generally structured such that the bank liquidity is provided by purchasing, or lending against, a pool of non-defaulted, performing assets. Additionally, program-wide liquidity facilities and lines of credit are provided by the Corporation and other financial institutions to the multi-seller conduits to facilitate access to the commercial paper markets.
 
     The following table summarizes the total amount of deal-specific and program-wide liquidity facilities, as well as the share of these facilities provided by the Corporation, of the multi-seller conduits for the periods indicated:
     The Corporation also provides deal-specific and program-wide liquidity facilities to conduits administered by other financial institutions totaling approximately $3.5 billion as of March 31, 2004.
     Effective December 31, 2003, the Corporation consolidated $39.6 billion of incremental assets and liabilities related to its asset-backed conduits and investment vehicle as a result of implementing certain requirements of FIN No. 46, which appear in the Commercial Banking line of business. Net revenue earned related to these assets was previously reported primarily as noninterest income. Consolidation had relatively no impact on net income; however, net interest income increased by $14 million and noninterest income decreased by $10 million. Investors in the consolidated multi-seller conduits and the investment vehicle have no recourse to the general assets of the Corporation.
     During 2003, banking regulators issued interim regulations that provide risk-based capital relief for certain assets consolidated under FIN No. 46. Such interim regulations issued by the banking regulators have been extended through July 1, 2004. The adoption of certain requirements of FIN No. 46, therefore, did not have a material impact on Tier 1 or Total Capital ratios. Excluding the impact of this consolidation, the leverage ratio and tangible common equity/tangible managed assets would have been 9.2% and 7.0%, respectively.
Principal Investments and Joint Ventures
In the normal course of business, the Corporation invests in principal investments, comprised of direct and indirect investments in private equity, venture capital and other equity and debt assets. The investment strategy for the portfolio, primarily executed by One Equity Partners (a wholly-owned consolidated subsidiary), is to focus on direct investments in high potential entities. Investments made include interests in Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft (HDW), the global leader in the design and manufacture of non-nuclear submarines, and in Polaroid, a leader in the instant imaging industry. Unfunded commitments to fund principal investments at March 31, 2004 totaled $1.5 billion.
     At March 31, 2004, the Corporation was not party to any material joint venture arrangements which were not consolidated.
Loans Sold with Recourse
The Corporation occasionally sells or securitizes loans with limited recourse. The amount of outstanding loans sold with recourse totaled $2.4 billion and $2.6 billion at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. The recourse provisions require the Corporation to repurchase loans at par plus accrued interest upon a credit-related triggering event. Exposure to credit losses from these arrangements has been reduced with the purchase of credit insurance contracts that cover the majority of expected losses.
 
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The capital position of the Corporation is managed to achieve management's external debt rating objectives, comply with regulatory requirements and reflect the underlying risks of the Corporation's business activities. The Corporation employs an economic capital framework (described further on page 46) to facilitate a standard measure of risk and return across all business units, as well as to provide a measure of capital adequacy consistent with internal risk evaluation practices. This serves as the basis for capital planning and related management activities.
Selected Capital Ratios
The Corporation aims to maintain regulatory capital ratios, including those of the principal banking subsidiaries, in excess of the well-capitalized guidelines under federal banking regulations. The Corporation maintains a well-capitalized regulatory position.
     The Corporation's capital ratios were as follows:
     The components of the Corporation's regulatory risk-based capital and risk-weighted assets were as follows:
     In deriving Tier 1 and Total Capital, goodwill and other nonqualifying intangible assets were deducted for the periods indicated:
     The insurance subsidiaries of the Corporation are subject to Risk-Based Capital ("RBC") guidelines as established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). The RBC requirements establish minimum levels of capital to be maintained and are used by the NAIC and states to identify companies subject to remedial action. At March 31, 2004, the statutory capital of all insurance subsidiaries was in excess of amounts that would require regulatory action.
 
     See pages 43-44 for a discussion of the impact of consolidation of certain multi-seller conduits to the Corporation's risk-based capital ratios under FIN No. 46.
Dividend Policy
The Corporation's common stock dividend policy reflects its earnings outlook, desired payout ratios, the need to maintain an adequate capital level and alternative investment opportunities. The common stock dividend payout ratio is targeted in the range of 25%  30% of earnings over time.
     On April 20, 2004, the Corporation announced that if the merger closes before July 6, 2004, Bank One common stock shareholders will convert each share of Bank One stock into 1.32 shares of JPMorgan stock. The shareholders will then receive a dividend of $0.34 per share of JPMorgan common stock payable on July 31, 2004, to shareholders of record on July 6, 2004. If the merger does not close on or before July 6, 2004, owners of Bank One stock will receive a cash dividend of $0.44875 per share on outstanding common stock, payable July 31, 2004, to shareholders of record on July 6, 2004.
Double Leverage
Double leverage is the extent to which the Corporation's resources are used to finance investments in subsidiaries. Double leverage was 99% and 103% at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. Trust Preferred Capital Securities of $3.3 billion at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, were included in capital for purposes of this calculation.
Stock Repurchase Program
On July 16, 2003, a $3.0 billion stock buyback program was approved and replaced amounts unused under the previous $2.0 billion program. The timing of the purchases and the exact number of shares to be purchased will depend on market conditions. The buyback program does not include specific price targets or timetables and may be suspended at any time. In the first quarter of 2004, the Corporation purchased more than 3 million shares of common stock at an average price of $51.72 per share.
     The Corporation's repurchases of equity securities were as follows:
     The Corporation's stock repurchase program is an important element of its capital planning activities. Repurchases of shares can be an efficient and flexible use of capital. Given the Corporation's level of excess capital during 2003 and the quarter ended March 31, 2004, the Corporation significantly increased its level of share repurchases.
Economic Capital
An important aspect of risk management and performance measurement is the ability to evaluate the risk and return of a business unit, product or customer consistently across all lines of business. The Corporation's economic capital framework facilitates this standard measure of risk and return. Business units are assigned capital consistent with the underlying risks of their product set, customer base and delivery channels.
The following principles are inherent in the capital allocation methodology employed:
 
          Reproduced below are the consolidated balance sheets of Bank One and its subsidiaries as of March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2003 and the related notes to the consolidated financial statements, included in Bank One's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 
Note 1  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
The consolidated financial statements of the Corporation have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Certain prior-period financial statement information has been reclassified to conform to the current quarter presentation. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
     Certain assets and liabilities, primarily derivative assets and liabilities as well as resale and repurchase agreements, are reported on a net basis by counterparty if legally enforceable master netting arrangements are in place.
     These notes to the consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report.
Credit Card Revenue Sharing Agreements
The Corporation has contractual agreements with numerous affinity organizations and co-brand partners, which grant to the Corporation exclusive rights to market to their members or customers. These organizations and partners provide to the Corporation their endorsement of the credit card programs, mailing lists, and may also conduct marketing activities, and provide awards under the various credit card award programs. The terms of these agreements generally range from 3 to 10 years. The economic incentives the Corporation pays to the endorsing organizations and partners typically include payments based on new accounts, activation, charge volumes, and the cost of their marketing activities and awards.
     The Corporation recognizes the portion of its payments based on new accounts to the affinity organizations and co-brand partners as deferred loan origination costs. The Corporation defers these costs and amortizes them over 12 months. The Corporation expenses payments based on marketing efforts performed by the endorsing organization or partner to activate a new account after the account has been originated as incurred. Payments based on charge volumes are considered by the Corporation as revenue sharing with the affinity organizations and co-brand partners, and are deducted from credit card revenue as the related revenue is earned.
Note 2  New Accounting Pronouncements Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
Effective January 1, 2003, the Corporation adopted SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" ("SFAS No. 146"), which supercedes EITF No. 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)" for exit and disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. SFAS No. 146 requires that a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred rather than when a company commits to such an activity. SFAS No. 146 also establishes fair value as the objective for initial measurement of the liability. SFAS No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. The impact of adoption was not material to the Corporation's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
In December 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (Revised), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN No. 46R"), which provides further guidance on the accounting for variable interest entities. As permitted by FIN No. 46R, the Corporation applied the provisions of FIN No. 46 as of December 31, 2003. The Corporation consolidated $39.6 billion of assets and liabilities as a result of implementing FIN No. 46 related to its asset-backed conduit business and an investment vehicle. For additional discussion of the Corporation's asset-backed conduit business and the related impact of FIN No. 46, see "Asset-Backed Finance Programs" beginning on page 43. The Corporation adopted the provisions of FIN No. 46R in the first quarter 2004. The impact of the adoption of FIN No. 46R in the first quarter 2004 was not material to the Corporation's operating results, financial position or cash flows. Under the provisions of FIN No. 46R, the Corporation deconsolidated guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in junior subordinated debt.
     The entities in which the Corporation has retained interests related to credit card securitizations and investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities will not be consolidated since both transaction structures are exempt from the requirements of FIN No. 46 and FIN No. 46R.
 
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Effective July 1, 2003, the Corporation adopted SFAS No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS No. 149)." SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities under FASB Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." The impact of adoption was not material to the Corporation's operating results, financial position or cash flows.
Accounting and Reporting for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and Separate Accounts
In 2003, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") issued Statement of Position 03-1, "Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts" ("SOP 03-1") which provides guidance on accounting and reporting by insurance companies for certain nontraditional long-duration contracts and for separate accounts. SOP 03-1 clarifies, among other things, the definition and accounting for separate accounts, contractholder funds, and requires companies to distinguish between insurance contracts and investment contracts based on the amount of mortality or morbidity risks inherent in the contract. For contracts classified as insurance contracts that contain death or other insurance benefit features, a liability in excess of the account balance must be established to reflect the benefits expected to be paid in future periods. Reinsurers of such risks should also establish an equivalent liability.
     The Corporation adopted the provisions of SOP 03-1 as of January 1, 2004, through a cumulative change in accounting principle recorded in earnings. The impact of SOP 03-1 was not material to the Corporation's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity
Effective July 1, 2003, the Corporation adopted SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity" ("SFAS No. 150"). SFAS No. 150 modifies the accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. Prior to July 1, 2003, guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the Corporation's junior subordinated debt were classified as a separate liability, with distributions on these securities included in interest expense on long-term debt. Currently, trust preferred capital securities are included as a component of long-term debt, with no change in the reporting of distributions.
Accounting for Interest Rate Lock Commitments ("IRLCs")
In March, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105, "Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments" ("SAB 105"), which presents the SEC staff's views on applying generally accepted accounting principles to loan commitments accounted for as derivative instruments. SAB 105 indicates that the value of servicing or other intangible assets should not be included as a component when estimating the fair value of IRLCs prior to a loan funding. The Corporation's accounting practice has been consistent with the staff's views and therefore, applying the guidance provided will have no effect on the Corporation's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
Note 3  Acquisitions
In the fourth quarter 2003, the Corporation purchased Security Capital Research & Management Incorporated, a recognized expert in developing real estate investment products, with approximately $3.9 billion in assets under management.
     Effective September 1, 2003, the Corporation acquired for cash, key business components of Zurich Life, a U.S. life and annuity operation of Zurich Financial Services Group. Zurich Life, based in Elgin, Illinois, is a leading underwriter of term life insurance serving consumers through both a national network of licensed brokers/insurance agents and the direct marketing platform of its One Life Direct (formerly Zurich Direct) agency. It is also a significant underwriter of fixed and variable annuities, with a recognized expertise in the teachers' annuity market. Zurich Life has regulatory and operating insurance authority in all 50 states. The acquisition expands the Corporation's existing insurance product offerings.
     The Corporation recorded the Zurich Life assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including insurance policy and claims reserves, at fair value. The Corporation acquired total assets of approximately $6.7 billion, consisting primarily of fixed income investment securities and $6.3 billion of insurance policy and claims reserves, and recorded approximately $116 million in goodwill. In conjunction with the acquisition, the Corporation reinsured separate accounts of the seller, Zurich Financial Services Group, that are netted in the Corporation's balance sheet in accordance with FIN No. 39.
 
Note 4  Discontinued Operations
On November 14, 2003, the Corporation sold its corporate trust services business to JPMorgan Chase for approximately $720 million and recorded a gain of $380 million, net of taxes, from discontinued operations. The sale included the corporate, municipal, structured finance and escrow businesses as well as the document custody and London corporate trust operations. Approximately 10% of the sales price remains unpaid because it is contingent upon business retention. As part of the sale, the Corporation has agreed to indemnify, subject to certain limitations, JPMorgan Chase for losses, liabilities or obligations relating in any manner to, or arising from the corporate trust services business, or any corporation trust agreement to the extent such losses arose or were incurred prior to the sale date or resulted from the operation of the corporate trust services business prior to closing. Accordingly, the Corporation recorded a reserve for those potential losses. As discussed in Note 32, "Subsequent Events," on page 111 of the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report, the Corporation announced an agreement to merge with JPMorgan Chase.
     The following is summarized financial information for discontinued operations:
Note 5  Earnings per Share
Basic EPS is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Except when the effect would be antidilutive, the diluted EPS calculation includes shares that could be issued under outstanding stock options and the employee stock purchase plan.
Note 6  Restructuring-Related Activity
Actions under the fourth quarter 2001 and the second quarter 2000 restructuring plans have been completed, with only payments of identified obligations remaining, which consist primarily of lease obligations. Unpaid amounts totaled $58 million and $35 million for these plans, respectively, as of March 31, 2004, and will be paid as required over the remaining contractual periods.
 
Note 7  Business Segments
The information below is consistent with the content of business segment data provided to the Corporation's management, which does not use product group revenues to assess consolidated results. Aside from investment management and insurance products, product offerings are tailored to specific customer segments. As a result, the aggregation of product revenues and related profit measures across lines of business is not available.
     Aside from the United States of America, no single country or geographic region generates a significant portion of the Corporation's revenues or assets. In addition, there are no single customer concentrations of revenue or profitability.
     For additional disclosures regarding the Corporation's segments see the "Business Segment Results" section beginning on page 7.
     The following table summarizes certain financial information by line of business for the periods indicated:
Note 8  Interest Income and Interest Expense
Details of interest income and interest expense were as follows:
 
Note 9  Investment Securities
The summary of the Corporation's investment portfolio follows:
     For the three months ended March 31, 2004, gross recognized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities were $183 million and $61 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2003, gross recognized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities were $92 million and $32 million, respectively.
Note 10  Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit losses is comprised of an allowance for loan losses and a reserve for unfunded commitments and standby letters of credit.
Changes in the allowance for loan losses were as follows:
 
     Changes in the reserve for unfunded commitments and standby letters of credit were as follows:
Note 11  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life are no longer amortized, but are subject to an impairment test at least annually. Goodwill is tested annually at the reporting segment level or more often if events or circumstances suggest potential impairment.
     Other acquired intangible assets determined to have a finite life, such as core deposits and credit card relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful life in a manner that best reflects the economic benefits of the intangible asset. Intangible assets with a finite life are periodically reviewed for other than temporary impairment.
(a) Goodwill
The Corporation had goodwill of $2.1 billion at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, with no impairment recorded.
     The allocation of goodwill by line of business was as follows:
(b) Other Intangible Assets
As of March 31, 2004, indefinite lived intangible assets that are not subject to amortization amounted to $14 million. Other intangible assets above do not include mortgage-servicing rights. Capitalized mortgage-servicing rights were $61.7 million and $71.0 million as of March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively.
     The remaining components of finite life intangible assets were as follows:
     For the three months ended March 31, 2004, intangible assets amortization expense was $33.4 million.
     The amortization expense for intangible assets over the next five years is estimated to be as follows:
 
Note 12  Guaranteed Preferred Beneficial Interest in Junior Subordinated Debt
The Corporation has sponsored ten trusts with a total aggregate issuance outstanding of $3.4 billion at March 31, 2004 in trust preferred securities as follows:
     These trust preferred securities are tax-advantaged issues that qualify for Tier 1 capital treatment. Distributions on these securities are included in interest expense on long-term debt. Each of the trusts is a statutory business trust organized for the sole purpose of issuing trust securities and investing the proceeds thereof in junior subordinated debentures of the Corporation, the sole asset of each trust. The preferred trust securities of each trust represent preferred beneficial interests in the assets of the respective trusts and are subject to mandatory redemption upon payment of the junior subordinated debentures held by the trust. The common securities of each trust are wholly-owned by the Corporation. Under the provisions of FIN No. 46R, the Corporation deconsolidated guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in junior subordinated debt. Each trust's ability to pay amounts due on the trust preferred securities is solely dependent upon the Corporation making payment on the related junior subordinated debentures. The Corporation's obligations under the junior subordinated securities and other relevant trust agreements, in aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by the Corporation of each respective trust's obligations under the trust securities issued by such trust.
 
Note 13  Supplemental Disclosures for Accumulated Other Adjustments to Stockholders' Equity
Accumulated other adjustments to stockholders' equity were as follows:
Note 14  Pension and Postretirement Employee Benefit Plans
For a discussion of the Corporation's pension and postretirement employee benefit plans, see Note 19 on pages 99-101 of the 2003 Annual Report.
(a) Pension Plans
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is 7.5% in 2004.
Employer Contributions
In the 2003 Annual Report, the Corporation disclosed that it expected to contribute $147 million to its qualified pension plan in 2004. The actuarial valuation for the plan reflected the maximum tax-deductible contribution for 2004 to be $121 million. As of March 31, 2004, $121 million has been contributed, and the Corporation expects to make no additional contributions over the remainder of the year.
     Also, the Corporation disclosed that it expected to pay out $13 million from corporate assets to participants in the non-qualified pension plan in 2004. The subsequently completed actuarial valuation for the plan revised expected payouts to $16 million.
 
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is 4.75% in 2004.
(b) Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions
In the 2003 Annual Report, the Corporation disclosed that it expected to contribute $16.2 million to its qualified postretirement plan in 2004. The actuarial valuation for the plan reflected the maximum tax-deductible contribution for 2004 to be $17.0 million. As of March 31, 2004, $17.0 million has been contributed, and the Corporation expects to make no additional contributions over the remainder of the year.
Employer Contributions
The Corporation utilizes stock-based awards, including restricted shares and stock options, as part of its overall compensation program. In addition, the Corporation provides employees the opportunity to purchase its shares through an Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Note 15  Stock-Based Compensation
     Effective January 1, 2002, the Corporation adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), as amended by SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an amendment to FASB Statement No. 123" ("SFAS No. 148"), and selected the prospective method of transition and began recognizing compensation expense based on the fair value method on newly granted stock awards. Under this method, compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period of the grant. Pursuant to the requirements of SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, options granted prior to January 1, 2002, continue to be accounted for under APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB No. 25"). Under APB No. 25, no compensation expense is recognized when the exercise price is greater than or equal to the market price of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.
     Awards under the Corporation's stock compensation plans vest over periods ranging primarily from three to five years. Therefore, the expense related to stock option compensation included in the determination of net income for 2003 and 2002 was less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123. The net income and earnings per share implications if the fair value method had been applied to all awards vesting during the three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 would have been as follows:
     Other disclosures related to stock options have not materially changed from the disclosure provided in Note 20, "Stock-Based Compensation" of the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report on pages 101-103.
In the normal course of business, the Corporation is a party to financial instruments containing credit and/or market risks. These financial instruments are primarily credit-related instruments. The Corporation has risk management policies to identify, monitor and limit exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks. To mitigate credit risk for financial guarantees, the Corporation generally determines the need for specific covenant, guarantee and collateral requirements on a case-by-case basis, depending on the nature of the financial instrument and the customer's creditworthiness.
Note 16  Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risk
The following is a summary of financial instruments that are considered guarantees in accordance with FIN No. 45:
 
     For a discussion of these types of agreements, see "Financial Guarantees" in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report on page 105.
     The Corporation also sells put options that are considered a form of financial guarantee when the counterparties that purchase the contracts actually own the reference financial instrument (primarily loans, commodities and equities). A put option sold by the Corporation provides the counterparty the right to sell (i.e., "put") the reference asset to the Corporation at a pre-determined price.
     The following table summarizes the Corporation's inventory of sold put options as of March 31, 2004, in which it was probable that the counterparty owns the reference financial instrument:
     The Corporation, as lending agent, will indemnify certain customers in securities lending transactions from default by the parties borrowing the securities. This indemnification is covered by the Corporation obtaining and maintaining collateral provided by the borrower exceeding 100% of the underlying security's market value. The market value of securities indemnified by the Corporation were $2.5 billion as of March 31, 2004 and $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2003. Other types of indemnification agreements that function as financial guarantees are considered to have remote risk of loss, historical loss experience is negligible and maximum exposure to loss is not possible to estimate due to the pervasive, yet low risk, nature of these agreements.
The maximum outstanding amount of securities under resale agreements and securities borrowed at any end of day during the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 was $12.4 billion and $11.0 billion, respectively. The average outstanding amount of securities under resale and securities borrowing agreements during the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 was $8.0 billion and $7.9 billion, respectively.
Note 17  Collateral Policy Related to Certain Asset Transfer Activity
The Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings, including certain class actions, arising out of the normal course of business or operations. In certain of these proceedings, which are based on alleged violations of consumer protection, securities, banking, insurance and other laws, rules or principles, substantial money damages may be asserted against the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Since the Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, which are regulated by one or more federal and state regulatory authorities, are the subject of numerous examinations and reviews by such authorities, the Corporation also is and will be, from time to time, normally engaged in various disagreements with regulators, related primarily to its financial services businesses. The Corporation also receives tax deficiency assessments from various taxing jurisdictions.
Note 18  Contingent Liabilities
     In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, the Corporation cannot state what the eventual outcome of pending matters will be; however, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, management does not believe that liabilities arising from these matters, if any, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or results of operations of the Corporation.
 
On January 14, 2004, the Corporation announced an agreement to merge with JPMorgan Chase in a strategic business combination establishing the second largest banking franchise in the United States, based on core deposits. The combined entity will have assets of approximately $1.1 trillion.
Note 19  Pending Merger
     The agreement provides for a stock-for-stock merger in which 1.32 shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock will be exchanged, on a tax-free basis, for each share of Bank One common stock. This transaction is expected to close in mid-2004 pending regulatory and shareholder approvals.
 
          Reproduced below is the Review Report of Independent Public Accountants to the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Bank One dated May 7, 2004 included in Bank One's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004.
The Board of Directors and Stockholders Bank One Corporation:
We have reviewed the condensed consolidated balance sheet of Bank One Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Corporation") as of March 31, 2004 and the related condensed consolidated income statements, statements of stockholders' equity and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2004 and 2003. These condensed consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Corporation's management.
     We conducted our reviews in accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
     Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the condensed consolidated financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
     We have previously audited, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, the consolidated balance sheet of Bank One Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the year then ended (not presented herein); and in our report dated January 20, 2004, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. Our report dated January 20, 2004 refers to Bank One's adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 46, , effective December 31, 2003. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2003, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
Chicago, Illinois May 7, 2004
 
          Set forth below is unaudited pro forma combined financial information and explanatory notes for JPMorgan Chase and Bank One, which information presents how the combined financial statements of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined as of the date indicated.
     The following unaudited pro forma combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined financial statements of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined as of the dates indicated. The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet at March 31, 2004 assumes the merger was completed on that date. The unaudited pro forma combined income statements for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003 give effect to the merger as if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2003. The unaudited pro forma combined financial information shows the impact of the merger on JPMorgan Chase's and Bank One's combined financial position and results of operations under the purchase method of accounting with JPMorgan Chase treated as the acquiror. Under this method of accounting, JPMorgan Chase will record the assets and liabilities of Bank One at their estimated fair values as of the date the merger is completed.
     The unaudited pro forma combined financial information has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and the related notes of both JPMorgan Chase and Bank One.
     The unaudited pro forma combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined company had the companies actually been combined for the periods presented and had the impact of possible revenue enhancements, expense efficiencies, asset dispositions and share repurchases, among other factors, been considered. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to unaudited pro forma combined financial information, the allocation of the purchase price reflected in the unaudited pro forma combined financial information is subject to adjustment and will vary from the actual purchase price allocation that will be recorded upon completion of the merger based upon changes in the balance sheet including fair value estimates.
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
     The unaudited pro forma combined financial information relating to the merger is presented as of March 31, 2004 and for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003. The Reporting Reclassifications column represents the change in presentation of the historical consolidated financial statements of Bank One and JPMorgan Chase to conform with the preliminary presentation for the combined entity. For purposes of identifying the reclassifications between line items on the financial statements, numerical references are provided to reflect where balances have been reclassified. Final determination of financial statement presentation will be completed upon consummation of the merger. During the fourth quarter of 2003, Bank One sold its corporate trust services business to JPMorgan Chase and reported it as discontinued operations. For purposes of the accompanying pro forma financial information, Bank One's income from discontinued operations has been reclassified to income from continuing operations to reflect the retention of this business in the combined entity. In addition, the gain recognized by Bank One on the sale of the corporate trust business has not been included in these pro forma results.
     JPMorgan Chase and Bank One are in the process of reviewing their accounting and reporting policies and, as a result of this review, it may be necessary to reclassify either JPMorgan Chase's or Bank One's financial statements to conform to those accounting policies that are determined by the combined company to be most appropriate. While some reclassifications of prior periods have been included in the unaudited pro forma combined financial information included in this document, further reclassifications may be necessary upon the completion of this review.
     Material intercompany transactions have been eliminated from the accompanying unaudited pro forma combined financial information. However the information does not reflect the elimination of hedge accounting results and positions for intercompany derivatives. Management believes this presentation is more reflective of the pro forma results of the combined entity, as such derivatives qualified for hedge accounting in the periods presented and will continue to qualify as hedges until the date the merger is completed, and it is management's intent to continue hedging with third parties subsequent to closing.
     The pro forma adjustments include purchase price adjustments and the conversion of Bank One common stock into JPMorgan Chase common stock using an exchange ratio of 1.32 applied to 1.117 billion shares of Bank One common stock outstanding at March 31, 2004 multiplied by the average share price of $39.02 per share of JPMorgan Chase common stock. The share price was computed using the average closing price of JPMorgan Chase common stock for the period commencing two trading days prior to and ending two trading days after the merger was announced on January 14, 2004. Also included in the purchase price is the estimated fair value of $1.135 billion representing 53.1 million vested employee stock options of Bank One that will be converted into options for JPMorgan Chase common stock upon consummation of the merger. The total estimated purchase price for purposes of this pro forma financial information is $58.657 billion.
     The merger will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting requiring the assets and liabilities of Bank One to be fair-valued as of the date of acquisition.
     The unaudited pro forma combined financial information includes estimated adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of Bank One at their respective fair values and represents management's best estimates based on information available at this time. The pro forma adjustments may be revised as additional information becomes available and additional analysis is performed. The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined after the merger is completed and after completion of a final analysis to determine the fair values of Bank One's tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of the closing date. The final purchase accounting adjustments may be materially different from the pro forma adjustments presented in this document. Increases or decreases in the fair value of relevant balance sheet amounts including loans, credit card and related intangible assets, securities, deposits and related intangibles and debt will result in adjustments to the balance sheet and/or income statement. Such adjustments compared to the information shown in this document may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in yield and/or amortization of the adjusted assets or liabilities.
     The unaudited pro forma combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the combined results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the merger actually been completed as of and for the periods presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
     The merger is expected to result in annual cost savings of approximately $2.2 billion (pre-tax) to be achieved over a three-year period following the consummation of the merger. These expected savings have not been included in the pro forma combined amounts.
     The pro forma financial statements do not currently include any amount related to the estimated $3 billion merger-related costs that are expected to be incurred to combine the operations of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One. The estimated merger-related charges will result from actions taken with respect to both JPMorgan Chase's and Bank One's operations, facilities and employees. The charges will be recorded based on the nature and timing of these integration actions. See Note 4 for a further discussion of these charges.
 
Note 2  Reporting Reclassifications
     
Income Statements
     1  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's investment banking fees from Banking fees and commissions into Investment banking fees to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     2  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Banking fees and commissions (other than mortgage fees and related income and investment banking fees) into Fees and commissions to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     3  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's mortgage fees and related income from Banking fees and commissions to Mortgage fees and related income to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     4  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Private equity gains from Securities gains into Private equity gains to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     5  Adjustment to reclassify JPMorgan Chase's credit card revenue from Fees and commissions into Credit card revenue to conform with the combined JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     6  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Service charges on deposits into Fees and commissions to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     7  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Fiduciary and investment management fees into Fees and commissions to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     8  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's mortgage related income within Other revenue to Mortgage fees and related income to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     9  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Equipment expense to Technology and communications expense to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     10  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Outside service fees and processing into Other expense to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     11  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Marketing and development expense into Other expense to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     12  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's minority interest from Other revenue to Other expense to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     13  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's gains and losses on sale of OREO to Other expense to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     14  Adjustment to reclassify JPMorgan Chase's amortization of intangible assets from Other expense to Amortization of intangibles to conform with the combined JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     
Balance Sheet
     1  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Securities borrowed from Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements into Securities borrowed to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     2  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Principal investments from Securities into Private equity investments to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
 
     3  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Demand deposits and Deposits in Foreign offices to Deposits  U.S. noninterest-bearing to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     4  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Savings, Time deposits and Deposits in Foreign offices to Deposits  U.S. interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     5  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Commercial paper from Other borrowed funds to Commercial paper to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     6  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's liabilities related to consolidated variable interest entities to Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     7  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's Trading liabilities  debt and equity instruments to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     8  Adjustment to reclassify Bank One's junior subordinated debt from Long-term debt to Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities to conform with JPMorgan Chase's classification.
     9  Adjustment to reclassify JPMorgan Chase's Accrued interest and accounts receivable into Other assets to conform with the combined JPMorgan Chase's classification.
Note 3  Pro Forma Adjustments
     The unaudited pro forma combined financial information reflects the issuance of 1,474,156,000 shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock with an aggregate value of $57.522 billion and the conversion of approximately 53.1 million Bank One vested employee stock options with a fair value of $1.135 billion at March 31, 2004. The fair value of JPMorgan Chase options that will be issued in exchange for the Bank One options was estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
 
Option pricing models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including expected stock price and volatility that, when changed, can materially affect fair value estimates. The more significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the JPMorgan Chase stock options to be issued in the exchange for the Bank One stock options include a risk-free interest rate of 2.37%, a dividend yield of 3.24%, a weighted average expected life of 3.0 years and volatility of 41.38%.
     The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma combined financial information are as follows:
     (A) Adjustment to fair value the Bank One loan portfolio. The adjustment will be recognized over the estimated remaining life of the loan portfolio of 2.29 years. The impact of this adjustment will reduce pre-tax interest income by $150 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and $602 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
     (B) Adjustment to eliminate JPMorgan Chase payable for additional purchase price related to the acquisition of Bank One's corporate trust business during the 4th quarter of 2003.
     (C) Adjustment to write off historical Bank One goodwill and to record the goodwill resulting from the merger.
     (D) Adjustment to write off historical Bank One intangible assets (other than goodwill).
     (E) Adjustment to record identifiable intangible assets resulting from the merger based on estimated fair values. The nature, amount and amortization method of various possible identified intangibles are being analyzed by management. The adjustments reflected herein are based on current assumptions and valuations, which are subject to change. For purposes of the pro forma adjustments shown here, management has estimated $10.025 billion of identifiable intangibles that consists of a core deposit intangible of $3.600 billion, credit card related intangibles of $4.900 billion and other customer relationship intangibles of $1.525 billion. Management has estimated the core deposit intangible and credit card related intangibles will be amortized on an accelerated basis not to exceed ten years. Other customer relationship intangibles include a cash management intangible of $375 million to be amortized on an accelerated basis and an asset management intangible of $530 million to be amortized on a straight-line basis, both over periods of up to 20 years. Also included is an indefinite lived asset management intangible of $620 million. Material changes are possible when the analysis is completed. The impact of these adjustments will reduce pro forma pre-tax income from continuing operations by $323 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and $1.435 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003.
     (F) Adjustment to fair-value Bank One deposit liabilities based on current interest rates for similar instruments. The adjustment will be recognized over the weighted average estimated remaining term of the related deposit liabilities of 1.62 years. This adjustment decreases pro forma pre-tax interest expense by $117 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and $469 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
     (G) Adjustment to accrued expenses represents additional net deferred tax liability of $2.216 billion resulting from the pro forma adjustments. Deferred taxes were recorded using a combined federal and state rate of 38%.
     (H) Adjustment to fair-value Bank One's long-term debt. The adjustment will be recognized over the weighted average remaining life of the long-term debt instruments of 7.93 years. The impact of the adjustment was a decrease in pro forma pre-tax interest expense by approximately $74 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and $297 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
     (I) Adjustment to eliminate Bank One's historical stockholders' equity. The adjustment also reflects the issuance of JPMorgan Chase common stock and the exchange of JPMorgan Chase vested stock option and vested restricted stock awards for corresponding Bank One awards.
     (J) Adjustment to reverse amortization of intangible assets recorded in Bank One's historical financial statements.
     (K) Adjustment to record the tax effect of the pro forma adjustments using a combined federal and state tax rate of 38%.
     (L) Weighted average shares were calculated using the historical weighted average shares outstanding of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003, adjusted using the exchange ratio. Earnings per share data have been computed based on the combined historical income of JPMorgan Chase, income from continuing operations for Bank One, and the impact of purchase accounting adjustments.
     (M) Adjustment to eliminate intercompany deposits.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
(c)     Exhibits.
          99.1    Acknowledgement of KPMG LLP, independent accountants of Bank One Corporation
 
     (N) Adjustment to fair value Bank One's net pension plan assets in excess of plan liabilities resulting in write-down of Bank One's prepaid pension costs.
     (O) Adjustment to reclassify income from discontinued operations to income from continuing operations.
     (P) Adjustment to fair value Bank One's net other post-retirement plan liabilities in excess of plan assets.
     (Q) Adjustment to fair value Bank One real estate and to decrease pre-tax occupancy expense for the related effects.
     (R) Adjustment to record additional pro forma compensation expense resulting from the revaluation of 33,139,011 unvested Bank One employee stock options and 11,875,534 unvested Bank One restricted stock awards (includes 3,419,466 of restricted stock units) that will not vest solely upon a change in control. The original valuation of these awards was determined by Bank One at their original grant dates. Upon consummation of the merger these awards will be revalued using current market assumptions. Annual compensation expense related to these awards will be greater than historic compensation expense due to the increase in the value of the awards upon remeasurement. Total compensation expense recognized by Bank One related to these awards for the three months ended March 31, 2004 was $57 million and for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $176 million. Pro forma compensation expense for the combined entity related to these awards for the three months ended March 31, 2004 was $82 million and for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $364 million. In determining pro forma compensation expense an average value of $13.75 for each individual stock option and $41.95 for each restricted stock award was used (both updated for the conversion ratio). For unvested stock options, the average remaining vesting period is 3 years and the average remaining contractual life is 6.8 years. For restricted stock awards, the average remaining vesting period is 3 years. Pursuant to SFAS No. 123 and SFAS No. 148, unvested awards are not considered a component of purchase price and are solely recognized in compensation expense in future periods.
Note 4  Merger-Related Charges
     In connection with the merger, management has been developing plans to integrate the operations of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One. The total integration costs have been estimated to be $3 billion. The specific details of these plans will continue to be refined over the next several months. Currently, merger integration teams are assessing the two companies' operations, including information systems, premises, equipment, benefit plans, supply chain methodologies, service contracts and personnel to determine optimum strategies to realize cost savings.
     Merger integration decisions will impact certain existing Bank One facilities (both leased and owned), information systems, supplier contracts and costs associated with the involuntary termination of personnel. Additionally, as part of formulation of the merger integration plan, existing JPMorgan Chase and Bank One information systems, premises, equipment, benefit plans, supply chain methodologies and supplier contracts may be affected, and there may be involuntary termination of personnel. To the extent there are costs associated with these actions, the costs will be recorded based on the nature and timing of these integration actions. Management expects that these merger integration decisions will be completed shortly after the merger. Restructuring charges will be recorded based on the nature and timing of these integration actions.
     Also included in the costs described above are additional integration costs consisting of costs relating to employee retention agreements, conversion costs and incremental communication costs to customers and business partners, among others. It is expected that these costs will be incurred over a two-year period after completion of the merger. These costs will be expensed as incurred.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 14, 2004

 
Exhibit 99.1
Bank One Corporation
1 Bank One Plaza
Chicago, Illinois 60670
      With respect to the subject quarterly report pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Act of 1934 for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2004 as filed on Form 10-Q on May 7, 2004 and included on J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. Form 8-K filed May 14, 2004, we acknowledge our awareness of the use therein of our report dated May 7, 2004 related to our review of interim financial information.
      Pursuant to Rule 436 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act), such report is not considered part of a registration statement prepared or certified by an accountant, or a report prepared or certified by an accountant within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of the Act.
Chicago, Illinois
May 13, 2004


