FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20040813153511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
On July 1, 2004, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") filed a Form 8-K announcing that it had completed its merger with Bank One Corporation ("Bank One"). In response to parts (a) and (b) of Item 7 of such Form 8-K, the Firm stated that it would file the financial information required by such items by amendment, as permitted by Instructions (a)(4) and (b)(2) to Item 7 to Form 8-K. This Form 8-K/A Amendment No. 2 is being filed to provide the required financial information.
       
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.
        
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
     Consolidated balance sheets of Bank One and its subsidiaries as of March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, and the related consolidated income statements and consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2003, have been filed under the section entitled "Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired" in JPMorgan Chase's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-5805) filed on May 14, 2004.
     Consolidated balance sheets of Bank One and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated income statements and consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003, have been filed under the section entitled "Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired" in JPMorgan Chase's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-5805) filed on March 1, 2004.
     A Review Report of Independent Public Accountants to the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Bank One, dated May 7, 2004, on the condensed consolidated financial statements of Bank One Corporation and subsidiaries as of March 31, 2004, and for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, has been filed under the section entitled "Review Report of Independent Public Accountants" in JPMorgan Chase's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-5805) filed on May 14, 2004.
     A Report of Independent Public Accountants to the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Bank One, dated January 20, 2004, on the consolidated financial statements of Bank One Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003, and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003, has been filed under the section entitled "Report of Independent Public Accountants" in JPMorgan Chase's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-5805) filed on March 1, 2004.
     Consolidated balance sheets of Bank One and its subsidiaries as of June 30, 2004 and December 31, 2003, and the related consolidated income statements for the three and six months ended June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, and consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4.
Table of Contents
        
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
     An unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet at March 31, 2004, and unaudited pro forma combined income statements for the three months ended March 31, 2004, and the year ended December 31, 2003, have been filed under the section entitled "Pro Forma Financial Information" in JPMorgan Chase's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-5805) filed on May 14, 2004.
     An unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet at June 30, 2004, and unaudited pro forma combined income statements for the six months ended June 30, 2004, and the year ended December 31, 2003, have been filed under the section entitled "Pro Forma Financial Information" in JPMorgan Chase's Current Report on Form 8-K/A Amendment No. 1 (File No. 1-5805) filed on July 30, 2004.
  
(c) Exhibits
* Previously filed
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunder duly authorized.
Table of Contents
* Previously filed

 
Exhibit 99.4
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
 
The consolidated financial statements of Bank One Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Corporation") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments have been included for a fair statement of this interim financial information. Certain prior-period financial statement information has been reclassified to conform to the current quarter presentation. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Certain assets and liabilities, primarily derivative assets and liabilities as well as resale and repurchase agreements, are reported on a net basis by counterparty if legally enforceable master netting arrangements are in place.
These notes to the consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report.
The Corporation has contractual agreements with numerous affinity organizations and co-brand partners, which grant to the Corporation exclusive rights to market to their members or customers. These organizations and partners provide to the Corporation their endorsement of the credit card programs, mailing lists, and may also conduct marketing activities, and provide awards under the various credit card award programs. The terms of these agreements generally range from 3 to 10 years. The economic incentives the Corporation pays to the endorsing organizations and partners typically include payments based on new accounts, activation, charge volumes, and the cost of their marketing activities and awards.
Credit Card Revenue Sharing Agreements
The Corporation recognizes the portion of its payments based on new accounts to the affinity organizations and co-brand partners as deferred loan origination costs. The Corporation defers these costs and amortizes them over 12 months. The Corporation expenses payments based on marketing efforts performed by the endorsing organization or partner to activate a new account after the account has been originated as incurred. Payments based on charge volumes are considered by the Corporation as revenue sharing with the affinity organizations and co-brand partners, and are deducted from credit card revenue as the related revenue is earned.
In May 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS106-2, which provides guidance on the accounting for the effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the "Act"); the Act was signed into law on December 8, 2003. Under the Act, a subsidy is available to sponsors of postretirement health care plans whose benefits are actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D.
Note 2New Accounting Pronouncements Accounting for Postretirement Health Care Plans which Provide Prescription Drug Benefits
 
In December 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (Revised), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN No. 46R"), which provides further guidance on the accounting for variable interest entities. As permitted by FIN No. 46R, the Corporation applied the provisions of FIN No. 46 as of December 31, 2003. The Corporation consolidated $39.6 billion of assets and liabilities as a result of implementing FIN No. 46 related to its asset-backed conduit business and an investment vehicle. For additional discussion of the Corporation's asset-backed conduit business see "Asset-Backed Finance Programs" beginning on page 74 of the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report. The Corporation adopted the provisions of FIN No. 46R in the first quarter 2004. The impact of the adoption of FIN No. 46R in the first quarter 2004 was not material to the Corporation's operating results, financial position or cash flows. Under the provisions of FIN No. 46R, the Corporation deconsolidated guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in junior subordinated debt.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ("VIEs")
The entities in which the Corporation has retained interests related to credit card securitizations and investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities will not be consolidated since both transaction structures are exempt from the requirements of FIN No. 46 and FIN No. 46R.
Effective July 1, 2003, the Corporation adopted SFAS No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 149"). SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities under FASB Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." The impact of adoption was not material to the Corporation's operating results, financial position or cash flows.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
In 2003, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") issued Statement of Position 03-1, "Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts" ("SOP 03-1") which provides guidance on accounting and reporting by insurance companies for certain nontraditional long-duration contracts and for separate accounts. SOP 03-1 clarifies, among other things, the definition and accounting for separate accounts and contract holder funds, and requires companies to distinguish between insurance contracts and investment contracts based on the amount of mortality or morbidity risks inherent in the contract. For contracts classified as insurance contracts that contain death or other insurance benefit features, a liability in excess of the account balance must be established to reflect the benefits expected to be paid in future periods. Reinsurers of such risks should also establish an equivalent liability.
Accounting and Reporting for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and Separate Accounts
The Corporation adopted the provisions of SOP 03-1 as of January 1, 2004, through a cumulative change in accounting principle recorded in earnings. The impact of SOP 03-1 was not material to the Corporation's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
Effective July 1, 2003, the Corporation adopted SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity" ("SFAS No. 150"). SFAS No. 150 modifies the accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. Prior to July 1, 2003, guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the Corporation's junior subordinated debt were classified as a separate liability, with distributions on these securities included in interest expense on long-term debt. Currently, trust preferred capital securities are included as a component of long-term debt, with no change in the reporting of distributions.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity
 
In May 2004, the Corporation completed the purchase of Circuit City Store's, Inc. private-label credit card business, including both its private-label Circuit City credit card accounts and its co-branded Circuit City Plus Visa credit card accounts, with managed loan receivables of $1.8 billion at time of acquisition.
Note 3Acquisitions
In the fourth quarter 2003, the Corporation purchased Security Capital Research & Management Incorporated, a recognized expert in developing real estate investment products, with approximately $3.7 billion in assets under management at the time of acquisition.
Effective September 1, 2003, the Corporation acquired for cash, key business components of Zurich Life, a U.S. life and annuity operation of Zurich Financial Services Group. Zurich Life, based in Elgin, Illinois, is a leading underwriter of term life insurance serving consumers through both a national network of licensed brokers/insurance agents and the direct marketing platform of its One Life Direct (formerly Zurich Direct) agency. It is also a significant underwriter of fixed and variable annuities, with a recognized expertise in the teachers' annuity market. Zurich Life has regulatory and operating insurance authority in all 50 states. The acquisition expands the Corporation's existing insurance product offerings.
The Corporation recorded the Zurich Life assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including insurance policy and claims reserves, at fair value. The Corporation acquired total assets of approximately $6.7 billion, consisting primarily of fixed income investment securities and $6.3 billion of insurance policy and claims reserves, and recorded approximately $116 million in goodwill. In conjunction with the acquisition, the Corporation reinsured separate accounts of the seller, Zurich Financial Services Group, that are netted in the Corporation's balance sheet in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts" ("FIN No. 39").
On November 14, 2003, the Corporation sold its corporate trust services business to JPMorgan Chase for approximately $720 million and recorded a gain of $380 million, net of taxes, from discontinued operations. The sale included the corporate, municipal, structured finance and escrow businesses as well as the document custody and London corporate trust operations. Approximately 10% of the sales price remained unpaid because it was contingent upon business retention. Upon the consummation of the merger of the Corporation with and into JPMorgan Chase as discussed in Note 19, "Subsequent Event", the sales agreement for the corporate trust services business was amended to rescind the additional contingent sales price. As part of the sale, the Corporation has agreed to indemnify, subject to certain limitations, JPMorgan Chase for losses, liabilities or obligations relating in any manner to, or arising from the corporate trust services business, or any corporation trust agreement to the extent such losses arose or were incurred prior to the sale date or resulted from the operation of the corporate trust services business prior to closing. Accordingly, the Corporation recorded a reserve for those potential losses.
Note 4  Discontinued Operations
The following is summarized financial information for discontinued operations:
 
Basic EPS is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Except when the effect would be antidilutive, the diluted EPS calculation includes shares that could be issued under outstanding stock options and the employee stock purchase plan.
Note 5Earnings per Share
Actions under the fourth quarter 2001 and the second quarter 2000 restructuring plans have been completed, with only payments of identified obligations remaining, which consist primarily of lease obligations. Unpaid amounts totaled $55 million and $33 million for these plans, respectively, as of June 30, 2004, and will be paid as required over the remaining contractual periods.
Note 6Restructuring-Related Activity
 
The information below is consistent with the content of business segment data provided to the Corporation's management, which does not use product group revenues to assess consolidated results. Aside from investment management and insurance products, product offerings are tailored to specific customer segments. As a result, the aggregation of product revenues and related profit measures across lines of business is not available.
Note 7Business Segments
Aside from the United States of America, no single country or geographic region generates a significant portion of the Corporation's revenues or assets. In addition, there are no single customer concentrations of revenue or profitability.
The following table summarizes certain financial information by line of business for the periods indicated:
 
Details of interest income and interest expense were as follows:
Note 8Interest Income and Interest Expense
 
Note 9Investment Securities
The summary of the Corporation's investment portfolio follows:
For the three months ended June 30, 2004, gross recognized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities were $332 million and $399 million, respectively. For the three months ended June 30, 2003, gross recognized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities were $106 million and $12 million, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2004, gross recognized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities were $515 million and $460 million, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2003, gross recognized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities were $198 million and $44 million, respectively.
 
The allowance for credit losses is comprised of an allowance for loan losses and a reserve for unfunded commitments and standby letters of credit.
Note 10Allowance for Credit Losses
                    Changes in the allowance for loan losses were as follows:
                    Changes in the reserve for unfunded commitments and standby letters of credit were as follows:
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life are not amortized, but are subject to an impairment test at least annually. Goodwill is tested annually at the reporting segment level or more often if events or circumstances suggest potential impairment.
Note 11Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Other acquired intangible assets determined to have a finite life, such as core deposits and credit card relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful life in a manner that best reflects the economic benefits of the intangible asset. Intangible assets with a finite life are periodically reviewed for other than temporary impairment.
        
(a) Goodwill
The Corporation had goodwill of $2.1 billion at June 30, 2004 and December 31, 2003, with no impairment recorded.
The allocation of goodwill by line of business was as follows:
     
(b) Other Intangible Assets
As of June 30, 2004, indefinite lived intangible assets that are not subject to amortization amounted to $14.6 million. Other intangible assets above do not include mortgage-servicing rights. Capitalized mortgage-servicing rights were $72.4 million and $71.0 million as of June 30, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively.
 
     The remaining components of finite life intangible assets were as follows:
For the six months ended June 30, 2004, intangible assets amortization expense was $67.0 million.
The amortization expense over the next five years for intangible assets recorded at June 30, 2004 is estimated to be as follows:
 
The Corporation has sponsored ten trusts with a total aggregate issuance outstanding of $3.4 billion at June 30, 2004 in trust preferred securities as follows:
Note 12Guaranteed Preferred Beneficial Interest in Junior Subordinated Debt
These trust preferred securities are tax-advantaged issues that qualify for Tier 1 capital treatment. Distributions on these securities are included in interest expense on long-term debt. Each of the trusts is a statutory business trust organized for the sole purpose of issuing trust securities and investing the proceeds thereof in junior subordinated debentures of the Corporation, the sole asset of each trust. The preferred trust securities of each trust represent preferred beneficial interests in the assets of the respective trusts and are subject to mandatory redemption upon payment of the junior subordinated debentures held by the trust. The common securities of each trust are wholly-owned by the Corporation. Under the provisions of FIN No. 46R, the Corporation deconsolidated guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in junior subordinated debt. Each trust's ability to pay amounts due on the trust preferred securities is solely dependent upon the Corporation making payment on the related junior subordinated debentures. The Corporation's obligations under the junior subordinated securities and other relevant trust agreements, in aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by the Corporation of each respective trust's obligations under the trust securities issued by such trust.
 
 Accumulated other adjustments to stockholders' equity were as follows:
Note 13
Supplemental Disclosures for Accumulated Other Adjustments to Stockholders' Equity
 
For a discussion of the Corporation's pension and postretirement employee benefit plans, see Note 19 on pages 99-101 of the 2003 Annual Report.
Note 14Pension and Postretirement Employee Benefit Plans
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is 7.5% in 2004.
(a)     Pension Plans
In the 2003 Annual Report, the Corporation disclosed that it expected to contribute $147 million to its qualified pension plan in 2004. The actuarial valuation for the plan reflected the maximum tax-deductible contribution for 2004 to be $121 million. As of June 30, 2004, $121 million has been contributed, and the Corporation expects to make no additional contributions over the remainder of the year.
Employer Contributions
Also, the Corporation disclosed that it expected to pay out $13 million from corporate assets to participants in the non-qualified pension plan in 2004. The subsequently completed actuarial valuation for the plan revised expected payouts to $16 million.
 
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is 4.75% in 2004.
(b)     Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions
In the 2003 Annual Report, the Corporation disclosed that it expected to contribute $16 million to its qualified postretirement plan in 2004. The actuarial valuation for the plan reflected the maximum tax-deductible contribution for 2004 to be $17 million. As of June 30, 2004, $17 million has been contributed, and the Corporation expects to make no additional contributions over the remainder of the year.
Employer Contributions
The Corporation utilizes stock-based awards, including restricted shares, restricted stock units and stock options, as part of its overall compensation program. In addition, the Corporation provides employees the opportunity to purchase its shares through an Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Note 15Stock-Based Compensation
Effective January 1, 2002, the Corporation adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), as amended by SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure, an amendment to FASB Statement No. 123" ("SFAS No. 148"), and selected the prospective method of transition and began recognizing compensation expense based on the fair value method on newly granted stock awards. Under this method, compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period of the grant. Pursuant to the requirements of SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, options granted prior to January 1, 2002, continue to be accounted for under APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB No. 25"). Under APB No. 25, no compensation expense is recognized when the exercise price is greater than or equal to the market price of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.
Awards under the Corporation's stock compensation plans vest over periods ranging primarily from three to five years. Therefore, the expense related to stock option compensation included in the determination of net income for 2004 and 2003 was less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123. The net income and earnings per share implications if the fair value method had been applied to all awards vesting during the three and six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 would have been as follows:
Other disclosures related to stock options have not materially changed from the disclosure provided in Note 20, "Stock-Based Compensation" of the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report on pages 101-103.
 
In the normal course of business, the Corporation is a party to financial instruments containing credit and/or market risks. These financial instruments are primarily credit-related instruments. The Corporation has risk management policies to identify, monitor and limit exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks. To mitigate credit risk for financial guarantees, the Corporation generally determines the need for specific covenant, guarantee and collateral requirements on a case-by-case basis, depending on the nature of the financial instrument and the customer's creditworthiness.
Note 16Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risk
The following is a summary of financial instruments that are considered guarantees in accordance with FIN No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Indebtedness of Others":
For a discussion of these types of agreements, see "Financial Guarantees" in the Corporation's 2003 Annual Report on page 105.
The Corporation also sells put options that are considered a form of financial guarantee when the counterparties that purchase the contracts actually own the reference financial instrument (primarily loans, commodities and equities). A put option sold by the Corporation provides the counterparty the right to sell (i.e., "put") the reference asset to the Corporation at a pre-determined price.
The following table summarizes the Corporation's inventory of sold put options as of June 30, 2004, in which it was probable that the counterparty owns the reference financial instrument:
The Corporation, as lending agent, will indemnify certain customers in securities lending transactions from default by the parties borrowing the securities. This indemnification is covered by the Corporation obtaining and maintaining collateral provided by the borrower exceeding 100% of the underlying security's market value. The market value of securities indemnified by the Corporation were $2.6 billion as of June 30, 2004 and $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2003. Other types of indemnification agreements that function as financial guarantees are considered to have remote risk of loss, historical loss experience is negligible and maximum exposure to loss is not possible to estimate due to the pervasive, yet low risk, nature of these agreements.
 
The maximum outstanding amount of securities under resale agreements and securities borrowed at any end of day during the quarters ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 was $6.1 billion and $15.4 billion, respectively. The average outstanding amount of securities under resale and securities borrowing agreements during the quarters ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 was $4.2 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively.
Note 17Collateral Policy Related to Certain Asset Transfer Activity
The Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings, including certain class actions, arising out of the normal course of business or operations. In certain of these proceedings, which are based on alleged violations of consumer protection, securities, banking, insurance and other laws, rules or principles, substantial money damages may be asserted against the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Since the Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, which are regulated by one or more federal and state regulatory authorities, are the subject of numerous examinations and reviews by such authorities, the Corporation also is and will be, from time to time, normally engaged in various disagreements with regulators, related primarily to its financial services businesses. The Corporation also receives tax deficiency assessments from various taxing jurisdictions.
Note 18Contingent Liabilities
In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, the Corporation cannot state what the eventual outcome of pending matters will be; however, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, management does not believe that liabilities arising from these matters, if any, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or results of operations of the Corporation.
Effective July 1, 2004, the Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 14, 2004. As a result of the merger, each outstanding share of Bank One common stock was converted in a stock-for-stock exchange into the right to receive 1.32 shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock. The merger is being accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
Note 19Subsequent Event
 
Average Balances/Net Interest Margin/Rates
 
Average Balances/Net Interest Margin/Rates
 
Average Balances/Net Interest Margin/Rates
For footnote detail see page 20.


