FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20040608154928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
On June 2, 2004, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. announced that Donald H. Layton, Vice Chairman, will retire upon completion of the firm's merger with Bank One. Attached as an exhibit is a copy of the press release with respect to the foregoing.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
(c)
Exhibits
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
99.1 Press release dated June 2, 2004.
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 270 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017-2070 NYSE symbol: JPM www.jpmorganchase.com
 
News release: IMMEDIATE RELEASE
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
- J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) today announced the retirement of Donald H. Layton, Vice Chairman and member of the Office of the Chairman, upon completion of the firm's merger with Bank One, which is expected to occur this summer. Mr. Layton is responsible for the firm's retail businesses, including middle market; the transaction, processing and information services businesses; and technology.
New York, June 2, 2004
As previously announced, Mr. Layton was to become responsible for Finance, Risk Management and Technology upon consummation of the merger with Bank One, reporting to Jamie Dimon, who will be President and Chief Operating Officer of the combined firm. As a result of Mr. Layton's retirement, when the merger is completed, those functions will report directly to Mr. Dimon.
Commenting on Mr. Layton's contributions to the firm, William B. Harrison, Jr., Chairman and CEO said, "Don has been a great leader of this firm, who will be sorely missed. He has made many valuable contributions, starting with Manufacturers Hanover and culminating in his leadership of our retail businesses and his work on the merger integration with Bank One. We wish him the very best."
Regarding his decision to retire, Mr. Layton said, "After nearly thirty years here and experience running most of the major businesses of JPMorgan Chase, I have decided that directly managing businesses is what I love to do. When the merger was announced, I nevertheless committed to staying and directing the planning of the merger integration. With that task substantially completed, I want to look for other opportunities. I wish Bill, Jamie and all of my colleagues the very best,"
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $801 billion and operations in more than 50 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, asset management, private banking, private equity, custody and transaction services and retail and middle market financial services. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase is headquartered in New York and serves more than 30 million consumer customers and the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients. Information about JPMorgan Chase is available on the Internet at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
 


