FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20040421071829.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On April 21, 2004, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") held an investor presentation to review 2004 first quarter earnings.
 
Exhibit 99.3 is a copy of slides furnished at, and posted on the Firm's website in connection with, the presentation. The slides are being furnished pursuant to Item 9, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information in Exhibit 99.3 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Firm under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 21, 2004, JPMorgan Chase reported 2004 first quarter net income of $1.93 billion, or $0.92 per share, compared to net income of $1.40 billion, or $0.69 per share, for the first quarter of 2003. A copy of the 2004 first quarter earnings release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and a copy of the earnings release financial supplement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
The earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain governmental approvals of the merger on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One stockholders to approve the merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any revenue synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk that excess capital is not generated from the merger as anticipated or not utilized in an accretive manner; and the risk that disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients, employees or suppliers. Additional factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements
 
 
can be found in the 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's Internet site .
(http://www.sec.gov)
 
JPMorgan Chase has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the SEC containing the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger. Stockholders are urged to read the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus because it contains important information. Stockholders may obtain a free copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about JPMorgan Chase and Bank One, without charge, at the SEC's Internet site . Copies of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and the filings with the SEC incorporated by reference in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, without charge, by directing a request to J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, Attention: Office of the Secretary (212-270-4040), or to Bank One Corporation, 1 Bank One Plaza, Suite 0738, Chicago, Illinois 60670, Attention: Investor Relations (312-336-3013). The respective directors and executive officers of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed merger. Information regarding JP Morgan Chase's and Bank One's directors and executive officers and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, is available in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the above-referenced Registration Statement on Form S-4.
(http://www.sec.gov)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 21, 2004
 

 

 

 
 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) today reported 2004 first quarter net income of $1.93 billion, or $0.92 per share, compared to net income of $1.40 billion, or $0.69 per share, for the first quarter of 2003. Return on average common equity for the quarter was 17%.
New York, April 21, 2004
"In the first quarter, we delivered strong financial results and made significant progress on our merger integration with Bank One," said William B. Harrison, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our quarterly earnings grew 38% year-over-year, due to stronger results in our capital markets-related businesses and continued improvement in our commercial credit portfolio. This combined strength more than offset the anticipated earnings decrease in Chase Financial Services as mortgage originations declined."
Mr. Harrison added, "I am more confident than ever about the benefits of the Bank One merger for our clients and our shareholders. Our merger integration process is proceeding well. We are on target for a mid-year closing of the merger of our bank holding companies. We have made tremendous progress in naming management teams, aligning products and customer segments, and making decisions about the majority of key technology platforms."
Highlights for the first quarter of 2004:
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
In the discussion of the lines of business below, information is presented on an operating basis. In the case of Chase Cardmember Services, "operating" or "managed" basis excludes the impact of credit card securitizations. For more information about "operating" or "managed" basis, as well as other non-GAAP financial measures used by management, see the Notes below.
1
The following discussion of results for the first quarter of 2004 compares results to the first quarter of 2003 unless otherwise indicated.
Investment Bank ("IB")
Earnings were $1.1 billion for the first quarter, up 24%. Revenues of $4.0 billion were 1% lower, while expenses were up 3%. Earnings performance was driven by a significant improvement in commercial credit quality, higher equity and fixed income capital markets, including record trading revenues, and an anticipated reduction in Global Treasury results. Return on allocated capital was 28% for the quarter, compared to 17% for the first quarter of 2003. Allocated capital was reduced by $4.9 billion or 23% reflecting reduction in credit risk.
Chase Financial Services ("CFS")
Earnings were $427 million for the quarter, a decrease of 34%. Operating revenues were $3.4 billion, down 8% or $278 million, driven primarily by an anticipated decline in Chase Home Finance revenues, totaling $335 million. Expenses of $2.0 billion for the quarter were up 11%. Credit costs of $748 million were down 15%, driven by lower net charge-offs and a reduction in the allowance for loan losses. Credit quality remains stable. Return on allocated capital for the quarter was 18% compared to 31% for the first quarter of 2003.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Business Segments
Treasury & Securities Services ("TSS")
Earnings were $119 million for the quarter, an increase of 6%. Return on allocated capital for the quarter was 15%, compared to 16% in the first quarter of 2003.
Investment Management & Private Banking ("IMPB")
Earnings were $115 million for the quarter, up significantly from $27 million. Return on allocated capital was 8% compared to 2% in the first quarter of 2003; return on tangible allocated capital (net of goodwill) was 36%, compared to 8% in the first quarter of 2003.
2
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
JPMorgan Partners ("JPMP")
JPMorgan Partners had earnings of $115 million, compared to a loss of $223 million in the first quarter of 2003. Net gains on the portfolio were $296 million, compared to net losses of $230 million.
Expenses
Credit
Total assets and capital
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Notes:
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $801 billion and operations in more than 50 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction processing, investment management, private banking and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase is headquartered in New York and serves more than 30 million consumers nationwide, and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients. Information about JPMorgan Chase is available on the Internet at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
JPMorgan Chase will host a meeting and a conference call for the investment community on Wednesday, April 21, 2004 at 11:00 a.m. (Eastern Daylight Time) to review first quarter financial results and to give an update on the pending merger with Bank One Corporation. The meeting will be held at 270 Park Avenue on the 49th floor. Investors unable to attend the meeting can dial (973) 935-8505 or listen via live audio webcast. The webcast and presentation slides will be available on . A replay of the meeting will be available beginning at 2:00 p.m. (Eastern Daylight Time) on April 21, 2004 and continuing through 6:00 p.m. (Eastern Daylight Time) on April 28, 2004 at (973) 341-3080 pin #4647765. The replay also will be available on . Additional detailed financial, statistical and business-related information is included in a financial supplement. The earnings release and the financial supplement are available on the JPMorgan Chase web site ().
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.jpmorganchase.com
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain governmental approvals of the merger on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One stockholders to approve the merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any revenue synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected;
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
the risk that excess capital is not generated from the merger as anticipated or not utilized in an accretive manner; and the risk that disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients, employees or suppliers. Additional factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's internet site ().
http://www.sec.gov
JPMorgan Chase has filed a Registration Statement on
Form S-4
with the SEC containing the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger. Stockholders are urged to read the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus because it contains important information. Stockholders may obtain a free copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about JPMorgan Chase and Bank One, without charge, at the SEC's Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). Copies of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and the filings with the SEC incorporated by reference in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, without charge, by directing a request to J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, Attention: Office of the Secretary (212-270-4040), or to Bank One Corporation, 1 Bank One Plaza, Suite 0738, Chicago, Illinois 60670, Attention: Investor Relations (312-336-3013). The respective directors and executive officers of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed merger. Information regarding JP Morgan Chase's and Bank One's directors and executive officers and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, is available in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the above-referenced Registration Statement on
Form S-4
.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except per share, ratio and employee data)
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
Page 2
 
 
 
Page 3
 
 
Page 4
 
Page 5
 
Page 6
 
Page 7
 
In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management looks at results on an "operating basis", which is a non-GAAP measure. The definition of operating basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results. In the case of the Investment Bank, the operating basis includes the reclassification of net interest income related to trading activities to Trading Revenue. In the case of Chase Financial Services and Chase Cardmember Services, "operating" or "managed" basis excludes the impact of credit card securitizations. These adjustments do not change JPMorgan Chase's reported net income.
 
 
 
Page 8
 
 
Page 9
 
Page 10
 
 
Page 11
 
 
Page 12
 
Page 13
 
 
Page 14
 
 
Page 15
 
 
Page 16
 
 
Page 17
 
Page 18
 
 
Page 19
 
 
Page 20
 
 
 
Page 21
 
Note: The risk profile is based on JPMorgan Chase's internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to the following ratings as defined by Standard & Poor's / Moody's: Investment-Grade: AAA / Aaa to BBB- / Baa3
Noninvestment-Grade Noncriticized: BB+ / Ba1 to B- / B3
Criticized: CCC+ / Caa1 & below
 
Page 22
 
 
Page 23
 
 
Page 24
 
 
Page 25
 
 
 
J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO. CAPITAL
 
Page 26
 
J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO. MARKET RISK  INVESTMENT BANK AVERAGE TRADING VAR
Page 27
 
J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO. Glossary of Terms
Represent assets managed by Investment Management & Private Banking on behalf of institutional, retail and private banking clients. Excludes assets managed at American Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 44% ownership interest.
Assets Under Management:
Represent assets under management as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Assets Under Supervision:
Represents the portion of average common stockholders' equity allocated to the business segments, based on their respective risks. The total average allocated capital of all business segments equals the total average common stockholders' equity of the Firm.
Average Allocated Capital:
The Firm allocates capital to businesses equal to 100% of the carrying value of goodwill. Average goodwill capital is equal to the average carrying value of goodwill.
Average Goodwill Capital:
Includes credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Average Managed Assets:
Average allocated capital less the average capital allocated for goodwill.
Average Tangible Allocated Capital:
Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.
bp:
Includes Support Units and the effect remaining at the corporate level after the implementation of management accounting policies.
Corporate:
Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51."
FIN 46:
Refers to credit card receivables on the Firm's balance sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Managed Credit Card Receivables:
Not meaningful
NM:
In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management looks at results on an "operating basis", which is a non-GAAP measure. The definition of operating basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results. In the case of the Investment Bank, the operating basis includes the reclassification of net interest income related to trading activities to Trading Revenue. In the case of Chase Financial Services and Chase Cardmember Services, "operating" or "managed" basis excludes the impact of credit card securitizations. These adjustments do not change JPMorgan Chase's reported net income.
Operating (Managed) Basis or Operating Earnings:
Consists of manufactured housing loans, installment loans (direct and indirect types of consumer finance), student loans, unsecured revolving lines of credit and non-U.S. consumer loans.
Other Consumer Loans:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue before provision for credit losses.
Overhead Ratio:
Financial statements prepared under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations.
Reported Basis:
Operating earnings less preferred dividends as a percentage of average allocated capital, excluding the capital allocated for goodwill.
Return on Tangible Allocated Capital:
All periods are on a comparable basis, although restatements may occur in future periods to reflect further alignment of management accounting policies or changes in organizational structures between businesses.
Segment Results:
Represents operating earnings minus preferred dividends and an explicit charge for capital.
Shareholder Value Added ("SVA"):
SVA less the impact of goodwill on operating earnings and capital charges.
Tangible Shareholder Value Added:
The financial statements and information included throughout this document are unaudited, and have not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent certified public accountant to express an opinion.
Unaudited:
A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Value-at-Risk ("VAR"):
 
Page 28

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


