FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20050323112431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
      (c) Exhibits
      The following Exhibit is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (333-117770) of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the "Registrant") as an exhibit thereto and is filed as part of this Current Report.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 22, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 8
     
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), in connection with the preparation and filing of a preliminary Pricing Supplement (No. 7) dated March 21, 2005 (the "Pricing Supplement") to a prospectus supplement dated September 23, 2004 (the "Prospectus Supplement") for the Company's Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated September 23, 2004 (the "Prospectus") contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration Statement No. 333-117770) (the "Registration Statement"). This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act").
     
In our opinion, the discussion under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement and under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Pricing Supplement, subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, sets forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities offered pursuant to the Pricing Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
     
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement and under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Tax Consequences" in the Pricing Supplement. By such consent we do not concede that we are an "Expert" for the purposes of the Act.


