FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20060414155635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
    
(d) Exhibits
     
The following Exhibit is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (333-130051) of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the "Registrant") as an exhibit thereto and is filed as part of this Current Report.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 12, 2006
 

     
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), in connection with the preparation and filing of a pricing supplement dated April 12, 2006 relating to Buffered Return Enhanced Notes Linked to a Weighted Basket Consisting of the AMEX Hong Kong 30 Index, the FTSE/Xinhua China 25 Index, the Korea Stock Price Index 200, the MSCI Taiwan Index, and the MSCI Singapore Index due November 9, 2007 (the "Pricing Supplement") to a prospectus supplement dated December 1, 2005 (the "Prospectus Supplement") for the Company's Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated December 1, 2005 (the "Prospectus") contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration Statement No. 333-130051) (the "Registration Statement"). This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act").
     In our opinion, the discussion under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement and under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Pricing Supplement, subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, sets forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities offered pursuant to the Pricing Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
     We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement and under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Pricing Supplement. By such consent we do not concede that we are an "Expert" for the purposes of the Act.


