FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20060918164826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events
On August 9, 2006, and August 3, 2006, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), respectively, its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 (the "June 2006 10-Q") and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 (the "March 2006 10-Q/A"). In its June 2006 10-Q JPMorgan Chase presented the results of operations of certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business as discontinued operations. Further, in its March 2006 10-Q/A the Firm modified certain of its financial disclosures to reflect more closely the manner in which the Firm's business segments are managed and to provide improved comparability with competitors.
JPMorgan Chase is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K (this "Form 8-K") to update certain financial information included in the Firm's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005, dated August 3, 2006 (the "2005 10-K/A"), and its March 2006 10-Q/A. These updates relate to discontinued operations that have resulted from the classification of portions of the corporate trust business as "held for sale" in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" (i.e., "SFAS 144"), and business segment changes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," ("SFAS 131"). The SEC requires that the previously issued financial statements for each of the three years presented in the 2005 10-K/A and for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, presented in the March 2006 10-Q/A, be revised to reflect the provisions of SFAS 144 and SFAS 131 if those financial statements are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC that are made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. These requirements apply even if the applicable financial statements relate to periods prior to the announcement of the aforementioned reporting changes. The revision of the previously issued financial statements does not affect the Firm's reported net income, net income per share, total assets or regulatory capital for any of the previously reported periods
.
Discontinued Operations
As previously reported, on April 8, 2006, JPMorgan Chase announced an agreement to acquire The Bank of New York Company's ("The Bank of New York") consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses in exchange for certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business. The financial information included in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 of this Form 8-K has been revised from how this information was previously presented in the 2005 10-K/A and March 2006 10-Q/A, respectively, to reflect the reclassification of these corporate trust businesses as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Business Segment Changes
Currently, there are six major reportable business segments: the Investment Bank ("the IB"), Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking ("CB"), Treasury & Securities Services ("TSS") and Asset & Wealth Management, as well as a Corporate segment. As discussed in the March 2006 10-Q/A, effective January 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase modified certain of its financial disclosures to reflect more closely the manner in which the Firm's business segments are managed and to provide improved comparability with competitors. Among these changes were "client transfers," which reflected the transfer of various wholesale banking clients, together with the related revenue and expense, among CB, the IB and TSS. The financial information included in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 of this Form 8-K has been revised from how this information was previously presented in the 2005 10-K/A and March 2006 10-Q/A, respectively, to reflect the client transfers retroactive to January 1, 2005. The financial information for periods prior to January 1, 2005, was not revised as the Firm has determined it was not practical to reflect those client transfers in the earlier periods.
Table of Contents
The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 of this Form 8-K continue to speak as of the date of JPMorgan Chase's original filing on March 9, 2006, and May 8, 2006, respectively, of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The Firm has not updated its disclosure except as referenced above.
The Exhibits provided with this Form 8-K shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 18, 2006

 
Exhibit 23.1
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-49965, 33-64261, 333-14959, 333-14959-01, 333-14959-02, 333-14959-03, 333-15649, 333-16773, 333-16773-01, 333-16773-02, 333-16773-03, 333-19719, 333-19719-01, 333-19719-02, 333-22437, 333-37567, 333-37567-03, 333-42807, 333-52826, 333-52962, 333-52962-01, 333-52962-02, 333-56573, 333-56587, 333-56587-03, 333-68500, 333-68500-01, 333-68500-02, 333-68500-03, 333-68500-04, 333-70639, 333-71876, 333-94393, 333-107207, 333-116771, 333-116771-03, 333-116773, 333-116773-01, 333-116774, 333-116774-01, 333-116775, 333-116775-02, 333-116822, 333-117770, 333-117775, 333-117785, 333-117785-01, 333-117785-02, 333-117785-03, 333-117785-04, 333-117785-05, 333-126750, 333-128506 and 333-130051) and in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-01776, 33-40272, 33-40675, 33-49909, 33-49911, 33-49913, 33-54547, 33-62453, 33-63833, 333-02073, 333-07941, 333-15281, 333-22451, 333-31634, 333-31656, 333-31666, 333-47350, 333-64476, 333-73119, 333-92217, 333-92737, 333-112967 and 333-125827) of JPMorgan Chase & Co. or affiliates of our report dated February 24, 2006, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the section entitled "Restatement of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows" included in Note 1, as to which the date is August 3, 2006; and except for the effects of discontinued operations and segment changes discussed in Note 33, as to which the date is September 15, 2006, relating to the financial statements, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
New York, New York
September 15, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
Part I
Item 1: Business
Effective July 1, 2004, Bank One Corporation ("Bank One") merged with and into JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the "Merger"), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated January 14, 2004. As a result of the Merger, each outstanding share of common stock of Bank One was converted in a stock-for-stock exchange into 1.32 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm"). The Merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price to complete the Merger was $58.5 billion.
Bank One's results of operations were included in the Firm's results beginning July 1, 2004. Therefore, the results of operations for the 12 months ended December 31, 2004, reflect six months of operations of the combined Firm and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase; the results of operations for all other periods prior to 2004 reflect only the operations of heritage JPMorgan Chase.
Overview
JPMorgan Chase is a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968. JPMorgan Chase is one of the largest banking institutions in the United States, with $1.2 trillion in assets, $107 billion in stockholders' equity and operations worldwide.
JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ("JPMorgan Chase Bank"), a national banking association with branches in 17 states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association ("Chase USA"), a national banking association that is the Firm's credit cardissuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("JPMSI"), its U.S. investment banking firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks.
The Firm's website is www.jpmorganchase.com. JPMorgan Chase makes available free of charge, through its website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The Firm has adopted, and posted on its website, a Code of Ethics for its Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and other senior financial officers.
Business segments
JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into six business segments (Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management) and Corporate, which includes its Private Equity and Treasury businesses, as well as corporate support functions. A description of the Firm's business segments and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases is provided in the "Business segment results" section of Management's discussion and analysis ("MD&A"), beginning on page 34, and in Note 31 on page 130.
Competition
JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, hedge funds, trust companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies. JPMorgan Chase's businesses compete with these other firms with respect to the quality and range of products and services offered and the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. With respect to some of its geographies and products, JPMorgan Chase competes globally; with respect to others, the Firm competes on a regional basis. JPMorgan Chase's ability to compete effectively depends upon the relative performance of its products, the degree to which the features of its products appeal to customers, and the extent to which the Firm is able to meet its clients' objectives or needs. The Firm's ability to compete also depends upon its ability to attract and retain its professional and other personnel, and on its reputation.
The financial services industry has experienced consolidation and convergence in recent years, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial products and services have merged. This convergence trend is expected to continue. Consolidation could result in competitors of JPMorgan Chase gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. It is possible that competition will become even more intense as the Firm continues to compete with other financial institutions that may be larger or better capitalized, or that may have a stronger local presence in certain geographies. For a discussion of certain risks relating to the Firm's competitive environment, see the Risk factors on page 4.
Supervision and regulation
The Firm is subject to regulation under state and federal law, including the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA"). JPMorgan Chase elected to become a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000 pursuant to the provisions of the 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ("GLBA").
Permissible business activities:
Under regulations implemented by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board"), if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve Board may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board may require divestiture of the holding company's depository institutions if the deficiencies persist. The regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA"), the Federal Reserve Board must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than those
1
 
Part I
permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. At December 31, 2005, the depository-institution subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase met the capital, management and CRA requirements necessary to permit the Firm to conduct the broader activities permitted under GLBA. However, there can be no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future.
Under GLBA's system of "functional regulation," the Federal Reserve Board acts as an "umbrella regulator," and certain of JPMorgan Chase's subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional authorities based upon the particular activities of those subsidiaries. JPMorgan Chase Bank and Chase USA are regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"). The Firm's securities and investment advisory activities are regulated by the SEC, and insurance activities are regulated by state insurance commissioners.
Regulation by Federal Reserve Board under GLBA:
Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by the subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase that are national banks. Nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase are not subject to those limitations. The amount of dividends that may be paid by national banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank and Chase USA, is limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a "recent earnings" test and an "undivided profits" test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year's net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank's "undivided profits." See Note 23 on page 121 for the amount of dividends that the Firm's principal bank subsidiaries could pay, at January 1, 2006 and 2005, to their respective bank holding companies without the approval of their banking regulators.
Dividend restrictions:
In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its bank and bank holding company subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator's opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.
Federal banking regulators have adopted risk-based capital and leverage guidelines that require the Firm's capital-to-assets ratios to meet certain minimum standards.
Capital requirements:
The risk-based capital ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified offbalance sheet financial instruments into four weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk. Under the guidelines, capital is divided into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a Total capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of 8% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 4%.
Tier 1 components: Capital surplus, common stock and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock are the most basic components of Tier 1 capital. The Federal Reserve Board also permits cumulative perpetual preferred securities to be included in Tier 1 capital but only up to certain limits. On March 1, 2005, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule, which became effective April 11, 2005, that continues the inclusion of trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital, subject to stricter quantitative limits and revised qualitative standards, and broadens the definition of restricted core capital elements. The rule provides for a five-year transition period. As an internationally active bank holding company, JPMorgan Chase is subject to the rule's limitation on restricted core capital elements, including trust preferred securities, to 15% of total core capital elements, net of goodwill less any associated deferred tax liability. At December 31, 2005, JPMorgan Chase's restricted core capital elements were 16.5% of total core capital elements. JPMorgan Chase expects to be in compliance with the 15% limit by the March 31, 2009, implementation date. Trust preferred securities are generally issued by a special-purpose trust established and owned by JPMorgan Chase. Proceeds from the issuance to the public of the trust preferred securities are lent to the Firm for at least 30 (but not more than 50) years. The intercompany note that evidences this loan provides that the interest payments by JPMorgan Chase on the note may be deferred for up to five years. During the period of any such deferral, no payments of dividends may be made on any outstanding JPMorgan Chase preferred or common stock or on the outstanding trust preferred securities issued to the public. As a result of the Firm's implementation of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ("FIN 46"), JPMorgan Chase does not consolidate these trusts on its balance sheet.
Tier 2 components: Long-term subordinated debt (generally having an original maturity of 1012 years) is the primary form of JPMorgan Chase's Tier 2 capital.
The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by average total assets (net of the allowance for loan losses, goodwill and certain intangible assets). The minimum leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that are considered "strong" under Federal Reserve Board guidelines or which have implemented the Federal Reserve Board's risk-based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.
The risk-based capital requirements explicitly identify concentrations of credit risk, certain risks arising from non-traditional banking activities, and the management of those risks as important factors to consider in assessing an institution's overall capital adequacy. Other factors taken into consideration by federal regulators include: interest rate exposure; liquidity, funding and market risk; the quality and level of earnings; the quality of loans and investments; the effectiveness of loan and investment policies; and management's overall ability to monitor and control financial and operational risks, including the risks presented by concentrations of credit and non-traditional banking activities. In addition, the risk-based capital rules incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market riskbased capital rules require banking organizations with large trading activities (such as JPMorgan Chase) to maintain capital for market risk in an amount calculated by using the banking organizations' own internal Value-at-Risk models (subject to parameters set by the regulators).
The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the federal banking agencies follow the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The Basel Committee has proposed a revision to the Accord ("Basel II"). U.S. banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II Framework into the existing risk-based capital requirements.
2
 
JPMorgan Chase will be required to implement advanced measurement techniques in the U.S. by employing internal estimates of certain key risk drivers to derive capital requirements. Prior to implementation of the new Basel II Framework, JPMorgan Chase will be required to demonstrate to its U.S. bank supervisors that internal criteria meet the relevant supervisory standards. JPMorgan Chase expects to be in compliance within the established timelines with all relevant Basel II rules.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA") provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators; among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards.
FDICIA:
Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal banking regulator under the "prompt corrective action" rules generally depend upon an institution's classification within five capital categories. The regulations apply only to banks and not to bank holding companies such as JPMorgan Chase; however, subject to limitations that may be imposed pursuant to GLBA, the Federal Reserve Board is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the holding company's subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary and might be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on that guarantee.
FDICIA also requires the FDIC to establish a risk-based assessment system for FDIC deposit insurance. Under the FDIC's risk-based insurance premium assessment system, each depository institution is assigned to one of nine risk classifications based upon certain capital and supervisory measures and, depending upon its classification, is assessed insurance premiums on its deposits. In February 2006, a bill intended to reform the deposit insurance system was enacted. This law will generally not be effective until the FDIC issues final regulations implementing the new law. It is not possible to fully assess the impact of the law until such final regulations are promulgated.
FDIC Insurance Assessments:
An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another FDIC-insured institution under common control, with such institution being "in default" or "in danger of default" (commonly referred to as "cross-guarantee" liability). An FDIC cross-guarantee claim against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against such depository institution.
Powers of the FDIC upon insolvency of an insured depository institution:
If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power: (1) to transfer any of the depository institution's assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution's creditors; (2) to enforce the terms of the depository institution's contracts pursuant to their terms; or (3) to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmation or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution. The above provisions would be applicable to obligations and liabilities of JPMorgan Chase's subsidiaries that are insured depository institutions, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank and Chase USA, including, without limitation, obligations under senior or subordinated debt issued by those banks to investors (referenced below as "public noteholders") in the public markets.
Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative expenses and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC, as subrogee of the depositors) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including public note-holders, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of the institution. As a result, whether or not the FDIC would ever seek to repudiate any obligations held by public noteholders of any subsidiary of the Firm that is an insured depository institution, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank or Chase USA, the public noteholders would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than the depositors of the depository institution.
The USA Patriot Act of 2001 ("Patriot Act") substantially broadens existing antimoney laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the United States; imposes new compliance and due diligence obligations; creates new crimes and penalties; compels the production of documents located both inside and outside the United States, including those of non-U.S. institutions that have a correspondent relationship in the United States; and clarifies the safe harbor from civil liability to customers. The United States Department of the Treasury has issued a number of regulations that further clarify the Patriot Act's requirements or provide more specific guidance on their application.
The USA PATRIOT Act:
The Patriot Act requires all "financial institutions," as defined, to establish certain antimoney laundering compliance and due diligence programs. The Act requires financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts for non-U.S. institutions, or persons that are involved in private banking for "nonUnited States persons" or their representatives, to establish, "appropriate, specific and, where necessary, enhanced due diligence policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to detect and report instances of money laundering through those accounts." JPMorgan Chase believes its programs satisfy the requirements of the Patriot Act. Bank regulators are focusing their examinations on antimoney laundering compliance, and JPMorgan Chase continues to enhance its antimoney laundering compliance programs.
Under current Federal Reserve Board policy, JPMorgan Chase is expected to act as a source of financial strength to its bank subsidiaries and to commit resources to support the bank subsidiaries in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy. However, because GLBA provides for functional regulation of financial holding company activities by various regulators, GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring payment by a holding company or subsidiary to a depository institution if the functional regulator of the payor objects to such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve Board could instead require the divestiture of the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture.
Other supervision and regulation:
Any loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank at a certain level would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.
3
 
Part I
The bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, and certain other transactions with, the Firm and certain other affiliates, and on investments in stock or securities of JPMorgan Chase and those affiliates. These restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase and other affiliates from borrowing from a bank subsidiary unless the loans are secured in specified amounts.
The Firm's bank and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries are subject to direct supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities (some of which are considered "functional regulators" under GLBA). JPMorgan Chase's national bank subsidiaries, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank and Chase USA, are subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC and, in certain matters, by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. Supervision and regulation by the responsible regulatory agency generally includes comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects of the relevant bank's business and condition, as well as the imposition of periodic reporting requirements and limitations on investments and other powers. The Firm also conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities through JPMSI and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of which are subject to the regulations of the SEC and the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD"). JPMSI is a member of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). The operations of JPMorgan Chase's mutual funds also are subject to regulation by the SEC. The types of activities in which the non-U.S. branches of JPMorgan Chase Bank and the international subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. Those non-U.S. branches and international subsidiaries also are subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.
The activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank and Chase USA as consumer lenders also are subject to regulation under various federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending, the Equal Credit Opportunity, the Fair Credit Reporting, the Fair Debt Collection Practice and the Electronic Funds Transfer acts, as well as various state laws. These statutes impose requirements on the making, enforcement and collection of consumer loans and on the types of disclosures that need to be made in connection with such loans.
In addition, under the requirements imposed by GLBA, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are required periodically to disclose to their retail customers the Firm's policies and practices with respect to (1) the sharing of non-public customer information with JPMorgan Chase affiliates and others; and (2) the confidentiality and security of that information. Under GLBA, retail customers also must be given the opportunity to "opt out" of information-sharing arrangements with non-affiliates, subject to certain exceptions set forth in GLBA.
For a discussion of certain risks relating to the Firm's regulatory environment, see Risk factors below.
Non-U.S. operations
For geographic distributions of total revenue, total expense, income before income tax expense and net income, see Note 30 on page 129. For a discussion of non-U.S. loans, see Note 11 on page 106 and the sections entitled "Country exposure" in the MD&A on page 70, Loan portfolio on page 142 and "Cross-border outstandings" on page 143.
4
 
 
Part II
Item 6: Selected financial data
For five-year selected financial data, see "Five-year summary of consolidated financial highlights (unaudited)" on page 22.
Item 7: Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations
Management's discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations, entitled "Management's discussion and analysis," appears on pages 23 through 84. Such information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated financial statements and Notes thereto, which appear on pages 87 through 132.
Item 8: Financial statements and supplementary data
The Consolidated financial statements, together with the Notes thereto and the report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 24, 2006 thereon, appear on pages 86 through 132.
Supplementary financial data for each full quarter within the two years ended December 31, 2005, are included on page 133 in the table entitled "Supplementary information  selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)." Also included is a "Glossary of terms'' on page 134.
11
 
 
Five-year summary of consolidated financial highlights
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
This section of the Annual Report provides management's discussion and analysis ("MD&A") of the financial condition and results of operations for JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of terms on pages 134135 for definitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included in this Annual Report contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase's results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described herein (see Forward-looking statements on page 135 of this Annual Report) and in the JPMorgan Chase Annual Report on Form 10K ("Form 10K") for the year ended December 31, 2005, in Part I, Item 1A: Risk factors, to which reference is hereby made.
Introduction
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm"), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States, with $1.2 trillion in assets, $107 billion in stockholders' equity and operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction processing, asset and wealth management and private equity. Under the JPMorgan, Chase and Bank One brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.
JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ("JPMorgan Chase Bank"), a national banking association with branches in 17 states; and Chase Bank USA, National Association, a national bank that is the Firm's credit card issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("JPMSI"), the Firm's U.S. investment banking firm.
JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into six business segments, as well as Corporate. The Firm's wholesale businesses comprise the Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services, and Asset & Wealth Management. The Firm's consumer businesses comprise Retail Financial Services and Card Services. A description of the Firm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases, follows.
Investment Bank
JPMorgan Chase is one of the world's leading investment banks, as evidenced by the breadth of the Investment Bank client relationships and product capabilities. The Investment Bank ("IB") has extensive relationships with corporations, financial institutions, governments and institutional investors worldwide. The Firm provides a full range of investment banking products and services in all major capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk management, and market-making in cash securities and derivative instruments. The Investment Bank also commits the Firm's own capital to proprietary investing and trading activities.
Retail Financial Services
Retail Financial Services ("RFS") includes Home Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking, Auto & Education Finance and Insurance. Through this group of businesses, the Firm provides consumers and small businesses with a broad range of financial products and services including deposits, investments, loans and insurance. Home Finance is a leading provider of consumer real estate loan products and is one of the largest originators and servicers of home mortgages. Consumer & Small Business Banking offers one of the largest branch networks in the United States, covering 17 states with 2,641 branches and 7,312 automated teller machines ("ATMs"). Auto & Education Finance is the largest noncaptive originator of automobile loans as well as a top provider of loans for college students. Through its Insurance operations, the Firm sells and underwrites an extensive range of financial protection products and investment alternatives, including life insurance, annuities and debt protection products.
Card Services
Card Services ("CS") is one of the largest issuers of credit cards in the United States, with more than 110 million cards in circulation, and is the largest merchant acquirer. CS offers a wide variety of products to satisfy the needs of its cardmembers, including cards issued on behalf of many well-known partners, such as major airlines, hotels, universities, retailers and other financial institutions.
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking ("CB") serves more than 25,000 clients, including corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profit entities with annual revenues generally ranging from $10 million to $2 billion. While most Middle Market clients are within the Retail Financial Services footprint, CB also covers larger corporations, as well as local governments and financial institutions on a national basis. CB is a market leader with superior client penetration across the businesses it serves. Local market presence, coupled with industry expertise and excellent client service and risk management, enable CB to offer superior financial advice. Partnership with other JPMorgan Chase businesses positions CB to deliver broad product capabilities  including lending, treasury services, investment banking, and asset and wealth management  and meet its clients' financial needs.
Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services ("TSS") is a global leader in providing transaction, investment and information services to support the needs of corporations, issuers and institutional investors worldwide. TSS is one of the largest cash management providers in the world and a leading global custodian. The Treasury Services ("TS") business provides a variety of cash management products, trade finance and logistics solutions, wholesale card products, and short-term liquidity management tools. The Investor Services ("IS") business provides custody, fund services, securities lending, and performance measurement and execution products. The Institutional Trust Services ("ITS") business provides clearance and collateral management, ADR depository, asset servicing, deposit and escrow services. TS partners with the Commercial Banking, Consumer & Small Business Banking and Asset & Wealth Management businesses to serve clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenues are included in other segments' results. TSS combined the management of the IS and ITS businesses under the name Worldwide Securities Services ("WSS") to create an integrated franchise which provides custody and investor services as well as securities clearance and trust services to clients globally. Beginning January 1, 2006, TSS will report results for two divisions: TS and WSS. As a result of the pending transaction with The Bank of New York, certain portions of the corporate trust business have been reflected in discontinued operations (for all periods presented) within the Corporate line of business.
Asset & Wealth Management
Asset & Wealth Management ("AWM") provides investment advice and management for institutions and individuals. With Assets under supervision of $1.1 trillion, AWM is one of the largest asset and wealth managers in the world. AWM serves four distinct client groups through three businesses: institutions through JPMorgan Asset Management; ultra-high-net-worth clients through the
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Private Bank; high-net-worth clients through Private Client Services; and retail clients through JPMorgan Asset Management. The majority of AWM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios. AWM has global investment expertise in equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity and liquidity, including both money market instruments and bank deposits. AWM also provides trust and estate services to ultra-high-net-worth and high-net-worth clients, and retirement services for corporations and individuals.
2005 Business events
Collegiate Funding Services
On March 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired, for approximately $663 million, Collegiate Funding Services, a leader in student loan servicing and consolidation. This acquisition will enable the Firm to create a comprehensive education finance business.
BrownCo
On November 30, 2005, JPMorgan Chase sold BrownCo, an on-line deep-discount brokerage business, to E*TRADE Financial for a cash purchase price of $1.6 billion. JPMorgan Chase recognized an after-tax gain of $752 million.
Sears Canada credit card business
On November 15, 2005, JPMorgan Chase purchased Sears Canada Inc.'s credit card operation, including both the private-label card accounts and the co-branded Sears MasterCardaccounts. The credit card operation includes approximately 10 million accounts with $2.2 billion (CAD$2.5 billion) in managed loans. Sears Canada and JPMorgan Chase entered into an ongoing arrangement under which JPMorgan Chase will offer private-label and co-branded credit cards to both new and existing customers of Sears Canada.
Chase Merchant Services, Paymentech integration
On October 5, 2005, JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corp. completed the integration of the companies' jointly owned Chase Merchant Services and Paymentech merchant businesses, to be operated under the name of Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC. The joint venture is the largest financial transaction processor in the U.S. for businesses accepting credit card payments via traditional point of sale, Internet, catalog and recurring billing. As a result of the integration into a joint venture, Paymentech has been deconsolidated and JPMorgan Chase's ownership interest in this joint venture is accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting.
Neovest Holdings, Inc.
On September 1, 2005, JPMorgan Chase completed its acquisition of Neovest Holdings, Inc., a provider of high-performance trading technology and direct market access. This transaction will enable the Investment Bank to offer a leading, broker-neutral trading platform across asset classes to institutional investors, asset managers and hedge funds.
Enron litigation settlement
On June 14, 2005, JPMorgan Chase announced that it had reached an agreement in principle to settle, for $2.2 billion, the Enron class action litigation captioned Newby v. Enron Corp. The Firm also recorded a nonoperating charge of $1.9 billion (pre-tax) to cover the settlement and to increase its reserves for certain other remaining material legal matters.
Vastera
On April 1, 2005, JPMorgan Chase acquired Vastera, a provider of global trade management solutions, for approximately $129 million. Vastera's business was combined with the Logistics and Trade Services businesses of TSS' Treasury Services unit. Vastera automates trade management processes associated with the physical movement of goods internationally; the acquisition enables TS to offer management of information and processes in support of physical goods movement, together with financial settlement.
WorldCom litigation settlement
On March 17, 2005, JPMorgan Chase settled, for $2.0 billion, the WorldCom, Inc. class action litigation. In connection with the settlement, JPMorgan Chase increased the Firm's Litigation reserve by $900 million.
JPMorgan Partners
On March 1, 2005, the Firm announced that the management team of JPMorgan Partners, LLC, a private equity unit of the Firm, will become independent when it completes the investment of the current $6.5 billion Global Fund, which it advises. The buyout and growth equity professionals of JPMorgan Partners will form a new independent firm, CCMP Capital, LLC, and the venture professionals will separately form a new independent firm, Panorama Capital, LLC. JPMorgan Chase has committed to invest the lesser of $875 million or 24.9% of the limited partnership interests in the fund to be raised by CCMP Capital, and has committed to invest the lesser of $50 million or 24.9% of the limited partnership interests in the fund to be raised by Panorama Capital. The investment professionals of CCMP and Panorama will continue to manage the JPMP investments pursuant to a management agreement with the Firm.
Cazenove
On February 28, 2005, JPMorgan Chase and Cazenove Group plc ("Cazenove") formed a business partnership which combined Cazenove's investment banking business and JPMorgan Chase's U.K.-based investment banking business in order to provide investment banking services in the United Kingdom and Ireland. The new company is called JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings.
Subsequent events
Acquisition of the consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York in exchange for certain portions of the corporate trust business including trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses
On April 8, 2006, JPMorgan Chase announced an agreement to acquire The Bank of New York's consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses in exchange for certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business plus a cash payment of $150 million. The Bank of New York businesses being acquired are valued at a premium of $2.30 billion; the Firm's corporate trust businesses being transferred (i.e., trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses) are valued at a premium of $2.15 billion. The Firm may also make a future payment to The Bank of New York of up to $50 million depending on certain new account openings. JPMorgan Chase expects to recognize an after-tax gain of approximately $600-$700 million. The transaction has been approved by both companies' boards of directors and is subject to regulatory approvals. It is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Sale of insurance underwriting business
On February 7, 2006, JPMorgan Chase announced that the Firm has agreed to sell its life insurance and annuity underwriting businesses to Protective Life Corporation for a cash purchase price of approximately $1.2 billion. The sale, which includes both the heritage Chase insurance business and the life business that Bank One had bought from Zurich Insurance in 2003, is subject to normal regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the third quarter of 2006. JPMorgan Chase anticipates the transaction will have no material impact on earnings.
 
Executive overview
This overview of management's discussion and analysis highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Annual Report. For a more complete understanding of events, trends and uncertainties, as well as the liquidity, capital, credit and market risks, and the critical accounting estimates, affecting the Firm and the lines of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety.
Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase
Business overview
2005 represented the Firm's first full year as a merged company; 2004 included six months of the combined Firm's results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results. Therefore, comparisons between the two years are significantly affected by the Merger. In addition, other key factors affecting 2005 results included litigation charges to settle the Enron and Worldcom class actions, a special provision for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina, the impact of the new bankruptcy legislation on credit card charge-offs and the sale of BrownCo, as well as the global economic and market environments.
In 2005, the Firm successfully completed a number of milestones in the execution of its Merger integration plan. Key accomplishments included: launching a national advertising campaign that introduced a modernized Chase brand; the conversion of 1,400 Bank One branches, 3,400 ATMs and millions of Bank One credit cards to the Chase brand; completing the operating platform conversion in Card Services; and executing a major systems conversion in Texas that united 400 Chase and Bank One branches and over 800 ATMs under common systems and branding. These accomplishments resulted in continued efficiencies from the Merger, and the Firm made significant progress toward reaching the merger-related savings target of approximately $3.0 billion by the end of 2007. The Firm realized approximately $1.5 billion of merger savings in 2005, bringing estimated cumulative savings to $1.9 billion, and the annualized run-rate of savings entering 2006 is approximately $2.2 billion. In order to achieve these savings, the Firm expensed merger-related costs of $722 million during the year, bringing the total cumulative amount expensed since the Merger announcement to $2.1 billion. Management continues to estimate remaining Merger costs of approximately $0.9 billion to $1.4 billion, which are expected to be expensed over the next two years.
The Board of Directors announced in the fourth quarter that James Dimon, President and Chief Operating Officer, would succeed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William B. Harrison, Jr. as Chief Executive Officer on December 31, 2005. Mr. Harrison remains Chairman of the Board.
The Firm reported 2005 net income of $8.5 billion, or $2.38 per share, compared with net income of $4.5 billion, or $1.55 per share, for 2004. The return on common equity was 8% compared with 6% in 2004.
Results included $2.0 billion in after-tax charges, or $0.57 per share, which included nonoperating litigation charges of $1.6 billion and Merger costs of $448 million. Excluding these charges, operating earnings were $10.5 billion, or $2.95 per share, and return on common equity was 10%. Operating earnings represent business results without merger-related costs, nonoperating litigation-related charges and recoveries, and costs related to conformance of accounting policies.
On April 8, 2006, the Firm announced an agreement to acquire The Bank of New York's consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses in exchange for certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business plus a cash payment of $150 million. The transaction will add 338 branches, 400 ATMs, and approximately 600,000 households, 100,000 businesses, $15 billion in deposits and $8 billion of loans to the Firm's New York City/Tri-State franchise. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2006.
In 2005, both the U.S. and global economies continued to expand. Gross domestic product increased by an estimated 3.0% globally with the U.S. economy growing at a slightly faster pace. The U.S. economy experienced continued rising short-term interest rates, which were driven by Federal Reserve Board actions during the course of the year. The federal funds rate increased from 2.25% to 4.25% during the year, and the yield curve flattened as long term interest rates remained broadly steady. Equity markets, both domestic and international, reflected positive performance, with the S&P 500 up 3% and international indices increasing over 20%. Capital markets activity was very strong during 2005, with debt and equity underwriting and merger and acquisition activity surpassing 2004 levels. The U.S. consumer sector showed continued strength buoyed by overall economic strength, which benefited from good levels of employment and retail sales that increased versus the prior year. This strength came despite slowing mortgage origination and refinance activity as well as significantly higher bankruptcy filings due to the new bankruptcy legislation which became effective in October 2005.
The 2005 economic environment was a contributing factor to the performance of the Firm and each of its businesses. The overall economic expansion and strong level of capital markets activity helped to drive new business volume and sales growth within each business. The interest rate environment negatively affected both wholesale and consumer loan spreads, though wholesale liability spreads widened over the course of the year, benefiting Treasury & Securities Services and Commercial Banking. Additionally, the credit quality of the loan portfolio continued to remain strong, reflecting the beneficial economic environment, despite the impacts of accelerated bankruptcy filings and Hurricane Katrina.
The discussion that follows highlights, on an operating basis and excluding the impact of the Merger, the performance of each of the Firm's lines of business.
Investment Bank operating earnings benefited from higher revenue and a continued benefit from the Provision for credit losses, which were offset by increased compensation expense. Revenue growth was driven by higher, although volatile, fixed income trading results, stronger equity commissions
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and improved investment banking fees, all of which benefited from strength in global capital markets activity. Investment banking fees had particular strength in advisory, reflecting in part the benefit of the business partnership with Cazenove, which was formed in February of 2005. As in 2004, the Provision for credit losses in 2005 was a benefit to earnings, mainly due to continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio. The increase in expense was primarily the result of higher performance-based incentive compensation due to increased revenues.
Retail Financial Services operating earnings benefited from the overall strength of the U.S. economy, which led to increased deposit, home equity and mortgage balances. In addition to the benefit from higher balances, revenues increased due to improved mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs") risk management results. Expenses declined, reflecting ongoing efficiency improvements across all businesses even as investments continued in retail banking distribution and sales, with the net addition during the year of 133 branch offices, 662 ATMs and over 1,300 personal bankers. These benefits were offset partially by narrower spreads on loans due to the interest rate environment and net losses associated with loan portfolio sale activity. The provision for credit losses benefited from improved credit trends in most consumer lending portfolios and from loan portfolio sales, but was affected negatively by a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.
Card Services operating earnings benefited from lower expenses driven by merger savings and greater efficiencies from the operating platform conversion, which resulted in lower processing and compensation costs. Revenue benefited from higher loan balances and customer charge volume resulting from marketing initiatives and increased consumer spending. Partially offsetting this growth were narrower spreads on loan balances due to an increase in accounts in their introductory rate period and higher interest rates. The managed provision for credit losses increased due to record levels of bankruptcy-related charge-offs related to the new bankruptcy legislation that became effective in October 2005 and a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina. Despite these events, underlying credit quality remained strong, with a managed net charge-off ratio of 5.21%, down from 5.27% in 2004.
Commercial Banking operating earnings benefited from wider spreads and higher volumes related to liability balances and increased loan balances. Partially offsetting these benefits were narrower loan spreads related to competitive pressures in some markets and lower deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates. The provision for credit losses increased due to a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina, increased loan balances and refinements in the data used to estimate the allowance for credit losses. However, the underlying credit quality in the portfolio was strong throughout the year, as evidenced by lower net charge-offs and nonperforming loans compared with 2004.
Treasury & Securities Services operating earnings grew significantly in 2005. Revenue growth resulted from business growth and widening spreads on, and growth in, liability balances, all of which benefited from global economic strength and capital market activity. Partially offsetting this growth were lower deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates. Expenses decreased due to lower software impairment charges, partially offset by higher compensation expense resulting from new business growth, the Vastera acquisition completed in April, and by charges taken in the second quarter to terminate a client contract.
Asset & Wealth Management operating earnings benefited from net asset inflows and asset appreciation, both the result of favorable capital markets and improved investment performance, which resulted in an increased level of Assets under management. Results also benefited from the acquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management in the fourth quarter of 2004 and growth in deposit and loan balances. Expenses increased due primarily to the acquisition of Highbridge and higher performance-based incentive compensation related to increased revenue.
Corporate segment operating earnings (excluding the impact of discontinued operations) were affected negatively by repositioning of the Treasury Investment portfolio. This decline was offset partially by the gain on the sale of BrownCo of $1.3 billion (pre-tax) and improved Private Equity results. The Corporate Trust businesses, which were previously reported in TSS, have been deemed discontinued operations. The related balance sheet and income statement activity were transferred to the Corporate segment during the second quarter of 2006, and all prior periods have been reclassified to reflect this transfer.
The Firm had, at year-end, total stockholders' equity of $107 billion, and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%. The Firm purchased $3.4 billion, or 93.5 million shares of common stock during the year.
2006 Business outlook
The following forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase's results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements.
JPMorgan Chase's outlook for 2006 should be viewed against the backdrop of the global economy, financial markets and the geopolitical environment, all of which are integrally linked. While the Firm considers outcomes for, and has contingency plans to respond to, stress environments, the basic outlook for 2006 is predicated on the interest rate movements implied in the forward rate curve for U.S. treasuries, the continuation of favorable U.S. and international equity markets and continued expansion of the global economy.
The performance of the Firm's capital markets and wholesale businesses are affected by overall global economic growth and by financial market movements and activity levels. The Investment Bank enters 2006 with a strong investment banking fee pipeline and continues to focus on new product expansion initiatives, such as commodities and securitized products, which are intended to benefit growth and reduce volatility in trading results over time. Compared with 2005, the Investment Bank anticipates lower credit portfolio revenues due to reduced gains from loan workouts. Asset & Wealth Management anticipates continued growth driven by continued net inflows to Assets under supervision. Treasury & Securities Services and Commercial Banking expect growth due to increased business activity and product sales.
Retail Financial Services anticipates benefiting from the expanded branch network and salesforce, and improved sales productivity and cross-selling in the branches, partially offset by pressure on loan and deposit spreads due to the higher interest rate environment. The acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services is expected to contribute modestly to earnings in 2006.
 
Card Services anticipates that managed receivables will grow in line with the overall credit card industry, benefiting from marketing initiatives, new partnerships and the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business. Revenues and expenses also will reflect the full-year impact of the Paymentech deconsolidation and the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business.
The Corporate segment includes Private Equity, Treasury, other corporate support units and discontinued operations. The revenue outlook for the Private Equity business is directly related to the strength of the equity markets and the performance of the underlying portfolio investments. If current market conditions persist, the Firm anticipates continued realization of private equity gains in 2006, but results can be volatile from quarter to quarter. It is anticipated that Treasury net interest income will gradually improve and that the net loss in Other Corporate will be reduced as merger savings and other expense reduction initiatives, such as less excess real estate, are realized.
The Provision for credit losses in 2006 is anticipated to be higher than in 2005, primarily driven by a trend toward a more normal level of provisioning for credit losses in the wholesale businesses. The consumer Provision for credit losses in 2006 should reflect generally stable underlying asset quality. However, it is anticipated that the first half of 2006 will experience lower credit card net charge-offs, as the record level of bankruptcy filings in the fourth quarter of 2005 are believed to have included bankruptcy filings that would otherwise have occurred in 2006. The second half of 2006 is expected to include increased credit card delinquencies and net charge-offs as a result of implementation of new FFIEC minimum payment rules.
Firmwide expenses are anticipated to benefit as the run rate of merger savings is expected to reach approximately $2.8 billion by the end of 2006 driven by activities such as the tri-state retail conversion and data center upgrades. Offsetting the merger savings will be continued investment in distribution enhancements and new product offerings; extensive merger integration activities and upgrading of technology; and expenses related to recent acquisitions, such as the Sears Canada credit card business and Collegiate Funding Services.
Consolidated results of operations
The following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase's consolidated results of operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. Factors that are related primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detail within that business segment than they are in this consolidated section. Total net revenue, Noninterest expense and Income tax expense have been revised to reflect the impact of discontinued operations. For a discussion of the Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated results of operations, see pages 8183 of this Annual Report.
Revenue
2005 compared with 2004
Total net revenue for 2005 was $53.7 billion, up 27% from 2004, primarily due to the Merger, which affected every revenue category. The increase from the prior year also was affected by a $1.3 billion gain on the sale of BrownCo; higher Trading revenue; and higher Asset management, administration and commissions, which benefited from several new investments and growth in Assets under management and assets under custody. These increases were offset partly by available-for-sale ("AFS") securities losses as a result of repositioning of the Firm's Treasury investment portfolio. The discussions that follow highlight factors other than the Merger that affected the 2005 versus 2004 comparison.
The increase in Investment banking fees reflected continued strength in advisory, equity and debt underwriting, with particular growth in Europe, which benefited from the business partnership with Cazenove. Trading revenue increased from 2004, reflecting strength in fixed income, equities and commodities. For a further discussion of Investment banking fees and Trading revenue, which are primarily recorded in the IB, see the IB segment results on pages 3638 of this Annual Report.
The higher Lending & deposit-related fees were driven by the Merger; absent the effects of the Merger, the deposit-related fees would have been lower due to rising interest rates. In a higher interest-rate environment, the value of deposit balances to a customer is greater, resulting in a reduction of deposit-related fees. For a further discussion of liability balances (including deposits) see the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 4748 and 4950, respectively, of this Annual Report.
The increase in Asset management, administration and commissions revenue was driven by incremental fees from several new investments, including a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management, LLC, the business partnership with Cazenove and the acquisition of Vastera. Also contributing to the higher level of revenue was an increase in Assets under management, reflecting net asset inflows, mainly in equity-related products, and global equity market appreciation. In addition, Assets under custody were up due to market value appreciation and new business. Commissions rose as a result of a higher volume of brokerage transactions. For additional information on these fees and commissions, see the segment discussions for IB on pages 3638, AWM on pages 5152 and TSS on pages 4950 of this Annual Report.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The decline in Securities/private equity gains reflected $1.3 billion of securities losses, as compared with $338 million of gains in 2004. The losses resulted primarily from repositioning the Firm's Treasury investment portfolio in response to rising interest rates. The securities losses were offset partly by higher private equity gains due to a continuation of favorable capital markets conditions. For a further discussion of Securities/private equity gains, which are recorded primarily in the Firm's Treasury and Private Equity businesses, see the Corporate segment discussion on pages 5354 of this Annual Report.
Mortgage fees and related income increased due to improvements in risk management results related to MSR assets. Mortgage fees and related income exclude the impact of NII and AFS securities gains related to home mortgage activities. For a discussion of Mortgage fees and related income, which is recorded primarily in RFS's Home Finance business, see the segment discussion for RFS on pages 3944 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income rose as a result of higher interchange income associated with the increase in charge volume. This increase was offset partially by higher volume-driven payments to partners; rewards expense; and the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech, which was deconsolidated upon completion of the integration of Chase Merchant Services and the Paymentech merchant processing businesses in 2005. For a further discussion of Credit card income, see CS segment results on pages 4546 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Other income primarily reflected a $1.3 billion pre-tax gain on the sale of BrownCo to E*TRADE Financial; higher gains from loan workouts and loan sales; and higher revenues as a result of a shift from financing leases to operating leases in the auto business. These gains were offset partly by write-downs on auto loans that were transferred to held-for-sale and a one-time gain in 2004 on the sale of an investment.
Net interest income rose as a result of higher average volume of, and wider spreads on, liability balances. Also contributing to the increase was higher average volume of wholesale and consumer loans, in particular, home equity and credit card loans. These increases were offset partially by narrower spreads on consumer and wholesale loans and on trading assets, as well as reduced Treasury investment portfolio levels. The Firm's total average interest-earning assets in 2005 were $899 billion, up 23% from the prior year. The net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, was 2.20%, a decrease of seven basis points from the prior year.
2004 compared with 2003
Total net revenues, at $42.4 billion, rose by $9.6 billion, or 29%, primarily due to the Merger, which affected every category of Total net revenue. The discussion that follows highlights factors other than the Merger that affected the 2004 versus 2003 comparison.
The increase in Investment banking fees was driven by significant gains in underwriting and advisory activities as a result of increased global market volumes and market share gains. Trading revenue declined by 18%, primarily due to lower portfolio management results in fixed income and equities.
Lending & deposit related fees were up from 2003 due to the Merger. The rise was offset partially by lower deposit-related fees, as clients paid for services with deposits versus fees due to rising interest rates. Throughout 2004, deposit balances grew in response to rising interest rates.
The increase in Asset management, administration and commissions was driven also by the full-year impact of other acquisitions  such as EFS in January 2004 and JPMorgan Retirement Plan Services in June 2003  as well as the effect of global equity market appreciation, net asset inflows and a better product mix. In addition, a more active market for trading activities in 2004 resulted in higher brokerage commissions.
Securities/private equity gains for 2004 rose from the prior year, primarily fueled by the improvement in the Firm's private equity investment results. This change was offset by lower securities gains on the Treasury investment portfolio as a result of lower volumes of securities sold, and lower gains realized on sales due to higher interest rates. Additionally, RFS's Home Finance business reported losses in 2004 on AFS securities, as compared with gains in 2003. For a further discussion of securities gains, see the RFS and Corporate segment discussions on pages 3944 and 5354, respectively, of this Annual Report.
Mortgage fees and related income rose as a result of higher servicing revenue; this improvement was offset partially by lower MSR risk management results and prime mortgage production revenue, and by lower gains from sales and securitizations of subprime loans as a result of management's decision in 2004 to retain these loans. Mortgage fees and related income exclude the impact of NII and securities gains related to home mortgage activities.
Credit card income increased from 2003 as a result of higher customer charge volume, which resulted in increased interchange income, and higher credit card servicing fees associated with an increase of $19.4 billion in average securitized loans. The increases were offset partially by higher volume-driven payments to partners and rewards expense.
The increase in Other income from 2003 reflected gains on leveraged lease transactions, the sale of an investment in 2004 and higher net results from corporate- and bank-owned life insurance policies. These positive factors in 2004 were offset partially by gains on sales of several nonstrategic businesses and real estate properties in 2003.
Net interest income rose from 2003 as growth in volumes of consumer loans and deposits, as well as wider spreads on deposits, contributed to higher net interest income. These positive factors were offset partially by lower wholesale loan balances in the IB and tighter spreads on loans, investment securities and trading assets stemming from the rise in interest rates. The Firm's total average interest-earning assets for 2004 were $728 billion, up $152 billion from 2003. The net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, was 2.27% in 2004, an increase of four basis points from the prior year.
 
Provision for credit losses
2005 compared with 2004
The Provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion, an increase of $939 million, or 37%, from 2004, reflecting the full-year impact of the Merger. The wholesale Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $811 million for the year compared with a benefit of $716 million in the prior year, reflecting continued strength in credit quality. The wholesale loan net recovery rate was 0.06% in 2005, an improvement from a net charge-off rate of 0.18% in the prior year. The total consumer Provision for credit losses was $4.3 billion, $1.9 billion higher than the prior year, primarily due to the Merger, higher bankruptcy-related net charge-offs in Card Services and a $350 million special provision for Hurricane Katrina. 2004 included accounting policy conformity adjustments as a result of the Merger. Excluding these items, the consumer portfolio continued to show strength in credit quality.
The Firm had total nonperforming assets of $2.6 billion at December 31, 2005, a decline of $641 million, or 20%, from the 2004 level of $3.2 billion. For further information about the Provision for credit losses and the Firm's management of credit risk, see the Credit risk management discussion on pages 6374 of this Annual Report.
2004 compared with 2003
The Provision for credit losses of $2.5 billion was up $1.0 billion, or 65%, compared with 2003. The impact of the Merger and accounting policy conformity charges of $858 million were offset partially by releases in the allowance for credit losses related to the wholesale loan portfolio, primarily due to improved credit quality in the IB, and the sale of the manufactured home loan portfolio in RFS.
Noninterest expense
2005 compared with 2004
Noninterest expense was $38.4 billion, up 13% from the prior year, primarily due to the full-year impact of the Merger. Excluding Litigation reserve charges and Merger costs, Noninterest expense would have been $35.1 billion, up 22%. In addition to the Merger, expenses increased as a result of higher performance-based incentives, continued investment spending in the Firm's businesses and incremental marketing expenses related to launching the new Chase brand, partially offset by merger-related savings and other efficiencies throughout the Firm. Each category of Noninterest expense was affected by the Merger. The discussions that follow highlight factors other than the Merger that affected the 2005 versus 2004 comparison.
Compensation expense rose as a result of higher performance-based incentives; additional headcount due to the insourcing of the Firm's global technology infrastructure (effective December 31, 2004, when JPMorgan Chase terminated the Firm's outsourcing agreement with IBM); the impact of several investments, including Cazenove, Highbridge and Vastera; the accelerated vesting of certain employee stock options; and business growth. The effect of the termination of the IBM outsourcing agreement was to shift expenses from Technology and communications expense to Compensation expense. The increase in Compensation expense was offset partially by merger-related savings throughout the Firm. For a detailed discussion of employee stock-based incentives, see Note 7 on pages 100102 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Occupancy expense was primarily due to the Merger, partially offset by lower charges for excess real estate and a net release of excess property tax accruals, compared with $103 million of charges for excess real estate in 2004.
Technology and communications expense was down only slightly. This reduction reflects the offset of six months of the combined Firm's results for 2004 against the full-year 2005 impact from termination of the JPMorgan Chase outsourcing agreement with IBM. The reduction in Technology and communications expense due to the outsourcing agreement termination is mostly offset by increases in Compensation expense related to additional headcount and investments in the Firm's hardware and software infrastructure.
Professional and outside services were higher compared with the prior year as a result of the insourcing of the Firm's global technology infrastructure, upgrades to the Firm's systems and technology, and business growth. These expenses were offset partially by expense-management initiatives.
Marketing expense was higher compared with the prior year, primarily as a result of the Merger and the cost of advertising campaigns to launch the new Chase brand.
The increase in Other expense reflected incremental expenses related to investments made in 2005, as well as an increase in operating charges for legal matters. Also contributing to the increase was a $93 million charge taken by TSS to terminate a client contract and a $40 million charge taken by RFS related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture. These items were offset partially by lower software impairment write-offs, merger-related savings and other efficiencies.
For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs, refer to Note 15 and Note 8 on pages 114116 and 103, respectively, of this Annual Report.
The 2005 nonoperating Litigation reserve charges that were recorded by the Firm were as follows: a $1.9 billion charge related to the settlement of the Enron class action litigation and for certain other material legal proceedings and a $900 million charge for the settlement costs of the WorldCom class action litigation; these were partially offset by a $208 million insurance recovery related to certain material litigation. In comparison, 2004 included a $3.7 billion nonoperating charge to increase litigation reserves. For a further discussion of litigation, refer to Note 25 on page 123 of this Annual Report.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
2004 compared with 2003
Noninterest expense was $34.0 billion in 2004, up $12.5 billion, or 58%, primarily due to the Merger. Excluding $1.4 billion of Merger costs, and Litigation reserve charges, Noninterest expense would have been $28.9 billion, up 35%. The discussion that follows highlights other factors affecting the 2004 versus 2003 comparison.
Compensation expense was up from 2003, primarily due to strategic investments in the IB and continuing expansion in RFS. These factors were offset partially by ongoing efficiency improvements and merger-related savings throughout the Firm, and by a reduction in pension costs. The decline in pension costs was attributable mainly to the increase in the expected return on plan assets resulting from a discretionary $1.1 billion contribution to the Firm's pension plan in April 2004, partially offset by changes in actuarial assumptions for 2004 compared with 2003.
The increase in Occupancy expense was offset partly by lower charges for excess real estate, which were $103 million in 2004 compared with $270 million in 2003.
Technology and communications expense was higher than in the prior year as a result of higher costs associated with greater use of outside vendors, primarily IBM, to support the global infrastructure requirements of the Firm. For a further discussion regarding the IBM outsourcing agreement, see the Corporate segment discussion on page 53 of this Annual Report.
Professional & outside services rose due to higher legal costs associated with litigation matters, as well as outside services stemming from recent acquisitions  primarily Electronic Financial Services ("EFS"), and growth in business at TSS and CS.
Marketing expense rose as CS initiated a more robust marketing campaign during 2004.
Other expense was up due to software impairment write-offs of $224 million, primarily in TSS and Corporate, compared with $60 million in 2003; higher operating charges for legal matters; and growth in business volume. These expenses were offset partly by a $57 million settlement related to the Enron surety bond litigation.
For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs, refer to Note 15 and Note 8 on pages 114116 and 103, respectively.
In June of 2004, JPMorgan Chase recorded a $3.7 billion addition to the Litigation reserve. By comparison, 2003 included a charge of $100 million for Enron-related litigation.
Income tax expense
The Firm's Income from continuing operations before income tax expense, Income tax expense and effective tax rate were as follows for each of the periods indicated:
2005 compared with 2004
The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily the result of higher reported pre-tax income combined with changes in the proportion of income subject to federal, state and local taxes. Also contributing to the increase were lower 2005 nonoperating charges and a gain on the sale of BrownCo, which were taxed at marginal tax rates of 38% and 40%, respectively. These increases were offset partially by a tax benefit of $55 million recorded in connection with the repatriation of foreign earnings.
2004 compared with 2003
The reduction in the effective tax rate for 2004, as compared with 2003, was the result of various factors, including lower reported pre-tax income, a higher level of business tax credits, and changes in the proportion of income subject to federal, state and local taxes, partially offset by purchase accounting adjustments related to leveraged lease transactions. The Merger costs and accounting policy conformity adjustments recorded in 2004, and the Litigation reserve charge recorded in the second quarter of 2004, reflected a tax benefit at a 38% marginal tax rate, contributing to the reduction in the effective tax rate compared with 2003.
 
Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm's use of non-GAAP financial measures
The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"); these financial statements appear on pages 8790 of this Annual Report. That presentation, which is referred to as "reported basis," provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's and the lines' of business results on an operating basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm's definition of operating basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results. Operating basis excludes: (i) merger costs, (ii) the nonoperating litigation charges taken and insurance recoveries received with respect to certain of the Firm's material litigation; and (iii) costs related to the conformance of certain accounting policies as a result of the Merger. Management believes these items are not part of the Firm's normal daily business operations and, therefore, not indicative of trends, as they do not provide meaningful comparisons with other periods. For additional detail on nonoperating litigation charges, see the Glossary of terms on page 134 of this Annual Report.
In addition, the Firm manages its lines of business on an operating basis. In the case of the Investment Bank, noninterest revenue on an operating basis includes, in trading-related revenue, net interest income related to trading activities. Trading activities generate revenues, which are recorded for U.S. GAAP purposes in two line items on the income statement: trading revenue, which includes the mark-to-market gains or losses on trading positions; and net interest income, which includes the interest income or expense related to those positions. The impact of changes in market interest rates will either be recorded in Trading revenue or Net interest income depending on whether the trading position is a cash security or a derivative. Combining both the trading revenue and related net interest income allows management to evaluate the economic results of the Investment Bank's trading activities, which for GAAP purposes are reported in both Trading revenue and Net interest income. In management's view, this presentation also facilitates operating comparisons to competitors. For a discussion of trading-related revenue, see the IB on pages 3638 of this Annual Report.
In the case of Card Services, operating basis is also referred to as "managed basis," and excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. This presentation is provided to facilitate operating comparisons to competitors. Through securitization, the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card receivables into securities, which are sold to investors. The credit card receivables are removed from the consolidated balance sheet through the transfer of the receivables to a trust, and the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investors to specific cash flows generated from the credit card receivables. The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests as seller's interests, which are recorded in Loans on the Consolidated balance sheets. A gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in Other income. Securitization also affects the Firm's Consolidated statements of income as interest income, certain fee revenue, recoveries in excess of interest paid to the investors, gross credit losses and other trust expenses related to the securitized receivables are all reclassified into credit card income. For a reconciliation of reported to managed basis of Card Services results, see page 46 of this Annual Report. For information regarding loans and residual interests sold and securitized, see Note 13 on pages 108111 of this Annual Report. JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of "managed receivables" to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial performance of the underlying credit card loans, both sold and not sold: as the same borrower is continuing to use the credit card for ongoing charges, a borrower's credit performance will affect both the loan receivables sold under SFAS 140 and those not sold. Thus, in its disclosures regarding managed loan receivables, JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance sheet in order to disclose the credit performance (such as net charge-off rates) of the entire managed credit card portfolio. In addition, Card Services operations are funded, operating results are evaluated, and decisions are made about allocating resources such as employees and capital based upon managed financial information.
Finally, commencing with the first quarter of 2005, operating revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits are presented in the operating results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenues arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense. The Corporate sector's and the Firm's operating revenue and income tax expense for the periods prior to the first quarter of 2005 have been restated to be similarly presented on a tax-equivalent basis. This restatement had no impact on the Corporate sector's or the Firm's operating earnings.
Management uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the segment level because it believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors in understanding the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported GAAP results to operating results:
(Table continues on next page)
 
(Table continued from previous page)
Nonoperating Items
The reconciliation of the Firm's reported results to operating results in the accompanying table sets forth the impact of several nonoperating items incurred by the Firm in 2005 and 2004. These nonoperating items are excluded from Operating earnings, as management believes these items are not part of the Firm's normal daily business operations and, therefore, not indicative of trends as they do not provide meaningful comparisons with other periods. These items include Merger costs, nonoperating litigation charges and insurance recoveries, and charges to conform accounting policies, each of which is described below:
Calculation of Certain GAAP and Non-GAAP Metrics
The table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both the following GAAP and non-GAAP measures:
Return on common equity
Return on equity less goodwill
(a)
Return on assets
Overhead ratio
 
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Business segment results
The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis. The business segment financial results presented reflect the current organization of JPMorgan Chase. There are six major business segments: the Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management, as well as a Corporate segment. The segments are based upon the products and services provided, or the type of customer served, and reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on an operating basis.
In connection with the Merger, business segment reporting was realigned to reflect the new business structure of the combined Firm. Treasury was transferred from the IB into Corporate. The segment formerly known as Chase Financial Services had been comprised of Chase Home Finance, Chase Cardmember Services, Chase Auto Finance, Chase Regional Banking and Chase Middle Market; as a result of the Merger, this segment is now called Retail Financial Services and is comprised of Home Finance, Auto & Education Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking and Insurance. Chase Cardmember Services is now its own segment called Card Services, and Chase Middle Market moved into Commercial Banking. Investment Management & Private Banking was renamed Asset & Wealth Management. JPMorgan Partners, which formerly was a stand-alone business segment, was moved into Corporate. Corporate currently comprises Private Equity (JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners) and Treasury, and the corporate support areas, which include Central Technology and Operations, Audit, Executive Office, Finance, Human Resources, Marketing & Communications, Office of the General Counsel, Corporate Real Estate and General Services, Risk Management, and Strategy and Development. Beginning January 1, 2006, TSS will report results for two divisions: TS and WSS. WSS was formed by consolidating IS and ITS.
Segment results for periods prior to July 1, 2004, reflect heritage JPMorgan Chase-only results and have been restated to reflect the current business segment organization and reporting classifications.
Segment results  Operating basis
(a)(b)
(Table continues on next page)
 
Description of business segment reporting methodology
Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives these results allocates income and expense using market-based methodologies. Effective with the Merger on July 1, 2004, several of the allocation methodologies were revised, as noted below. As prior periods have not been revised to reflect these new methodologies, they are not comparable to the presentation of periods beginning with the third quarter of 2004. Further, the Firm continues to assess the assumptions, methodologies and reporting reclassifications used for segment reporting, and further refinements may be implemented in future periods.
Revenue sharing
When business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the Firm's clients, the participating business segments agree to share revenues from those transactions. These revenue-sharing agreements were revised on the Merger date to provide consistency across the lines of business.
Funds transfer pricing
Funds transfer pricing ("FTP") is used to allocate interest income and expense to each business and transfer the primary interest rate risk exposures to Corporate. The allocation process is unique to each business and considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of its stand-alone peers. Business segments may retain certain interest rate exposures, subject to management approval, that would be expected in the normal operation of a similar peer business. In the third quarter of 2004, FTP was revised to conform the policies of the combined firms.
Expense allocation
Where business segments use services provided by support units within the Firm, the costs of those support units are allocated to the business segments. Those expenses are allocated based upon their actual cost, or the lower of actual cost or market cost, as well as upon usage of the services provided. Effective with the third quarter of 2004, the cost allocation methodologies of the heritage firms were aligned to provide consistency across the business segments. In addition, expenses related to certain corporate functions, technology and operations ceased to be allocated to the business segments and are retained in Corporate. These retained expenses include parent company costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to align certain corporate staff, technology and operations allocations with market prices; and other one-time items not aligned with the business segments. During 2005, the Firm refined cost allocation methodologies related to certain corporate functions, technology and operations expenses in order to improve transparency, consistency and accountability with regard to costs allocated across business segments. Prior periods have not been revised to reflect these new cost allocation methodologies.
Capital allocation
Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-alone peer comparisons, economic risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to as equity. At the time of the Merger, goodwill, as well as the associated capital, was allocated solely to Corporate. Effective January 2006, the Firm expects to refine its methodology for allocating capital to the business segments to include any goodwill associated with line of business-directed acquisitions since the Merger. U.S. GAAP requires the allocation of goodwill to the business segments for impairment testing (see Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm and Note 15 on pages 81 83 and 114116, respectively, of this Annual Report). See the Capital management section on page 56 of this Annual Report for a discussion of the equity framework.
Credit reimbursement
TSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures the IB manages on behalf of clients the segments share. At the time of the Merger, the reimbursement methodology was revised to be based upon pre-tax earnings, net of the cost of capital related to those exposures. Prior to the Merger, the credit reimbursement was based upon pre-tax earnings, plus the allocated capital associated with the shared clients.
Tax-equivalent adjustments
Segment and Firm results reflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis for segment reporting purposes. Refer to Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm's non-GAAP financial measures on page 31 of this Annual Report for additional details.
Discontinued operations
As a result of the pending transaction with The Bank of New York, certain portions of the corporate trust businesses have been transferred from TSS to the Corporate segment and reported in discontinued operations for all periods reported.
Segment results  Operating basis
(a)(b)
(Table continued from previous page)
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Investment Bank
JPMorgan Chase is one of the world's leading investment banks, as evidenced by the breadth of its client relationships and product capabilities. The Investment Bank has extensive relationships with corporations, financial institutions, governments and institutional investors worldwide. The Firm provides a full range of investment banking products and services in all major capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk management, and market-making in cash securities and derivative instruments. The Investment Bank also commits the Firm's own capital to proprietary investing and trading activities.
Selected income statement data
The following table provides the IB's total net revenue by business segment:
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings of $3.7 billion were up 25%, or $725 million, from the prior year. The increase was driven by the Merger, higher revenues and an increased benefit from the Provision for credit losses. These factors were partially offset by higher compensation expense. Return on equity was 18%.
Net revenue of $14.6 billion was up $2.0 billion, or 16%, over the prior year, representing the IB's highest annual revenue since 2000, driven by strong Fixed Income and Equity Markets and Investment banking fees. Investment banking fees of $4.1 billion increased 15% from the prior year driven by strong growth in advisory fees resulting in part from the Cazenove business partnership. Advisory revenues of $1.3 billion were up 35% from the prior year, reflecting higher market volumes. Debt underwriting revenues of $2.0 billion increased by 6% driven by strong loan syndication fees. Equity underwriting fees of $864 million were up 11% from the prior year driven by improved market share. Fixed Income Markets revenue of $7.3 billion increased 15%, or $963 million, driven by stronger, although volatile, trading results across commodities, emerging markets, rate markets and currencies. Equities Markets revenues increased 21% to $1.8 billion, primarily due to increased commissions, which were offset partially by lower trading results, which also experienced a high level of volatility. Credit Portfolio revenues were $1.4 billion, up $213 million from the prior year due to higher gains from loan workouts and sales as well as higher trading revenue from credit risk management activities.
The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $838 million compared with a benefit of $640 million in 2004. The increased benefit was due primarily to the improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio and reflected net recoveries. Nonperforming assets of $645 million decreased by 46% since the end of 2004.
Noninterest expense increased 12% to $9.7 billion, largely reflecting higher performance-based incentive compensation related to growth in revenue. Noncompensation expense was up 4% from the prior year primarily due to the impact of the Cazenove business partnership, while the overhead ratio declined to 67% for 2005, from 69% in 2004.
2004 compared with 2003
In 2004, Operating earnings of $2.9 billion were up 5% from the prior year. Increases in Investment banking fees, the improvement in the Provision for credit losses and the impact of the Merger were partially offset by decreases in trading revenues and net interest income. Return on equity was 17% for 2004.
Total net revenue of $12.6 billion was relatively flat from the prior year, primarily due to lower Fixed income markets revenues and Credit portfolio revenues, offset by increases in Investment banking fees and the impact of the Merger. The decline in revenue from Fixed income markets was driven by weaker portfolio management trading results, mainly in the interest rate markets business. Credit portfolio revenues were down due to lower net interest income,
 
 
primarily driven by lower loan balances; these factors were partially offset by higher trading revenue due to more severe credit spread tightening in 2003 relative to 2004. Investment banking fees increased by 24% over the prior year, driven by significant gains in advisory and debt underwriting. The advisory gains were a result of increased global market volumes and market share, while the higher underwriting fees were due to stronger client activity.
The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $640 million, compared with a benefit of $181 million in 2003. The improvement in the provision was the result of a $633 million decline in net charge-offs, partially offset by lower reductions in the allowance for credit losses in 2004 relative to 2003.
For the year ended December 31, 2004, Noninterest expense was up 5% from the prior year. The increase from 2003 was driven by higher Compensation expense, resulting from strategic investments and the impact of the Merger.
Selected metrics
According to Thomson Financial, in 2005, the Firm improved its ranking in U.S. Debt, Equity and Equity-related from #5 in 2004 to #4 and in U.S. Equity and Equity-related from #6 in 2004 to #5. The Firm maintained its #3 position in Global Announced M&A with 24% market share and its #1 position in Global Syndicated Loans. The Firm maintained its #2 ranking in U.S. Long-Term Debt, but dropped from #2 to #4 in Global Long-Term Debt.
According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #2 in Investment Banking fees generated during 2005.
Market shares and rankings
(a)
 
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Composition of revenue
IB revenues comprise the following:
includes advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.
Investment banking fees
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets, including government and corporate debt, foreign exchange, interest rate and commodities markets.
Fixed income markets
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives and convertibles.
Equities markets
revenue includes Net interest income, fees and loan sale activity, as well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, for IB's credit portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the Firm's lending and derivative activities, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment ("CVA"), which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty. See pages 6970 of the Credit risk management section of this Annual Report for a further discussion.
Credit portfolio
 
 
Retail Financial Services
RFS includes Home Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking, Auto & Education Finance and Insurance. Through this group of businesses, the Firm provides consumers and small businesses with a broad range of financial products and services including deposits, investments, loans and insurance. Home Finance is a leading provider of consumer real estate loan products and is one of the largest originators and servicers of home mortgages. Consumer & Small Business Banking offers one of the largest branch networks in the United States, covering 17 states with 2,641 branches and 7,312 automated teller machines ("ATMs"). Auto & Education Finance is the largest noncaptive originator of automobile loans as well as a top provider of loans for college students. Through its Insurance operations, the Firm sells and underwrites an extensive range of financial protection products and investment alternatives, including life insurance, annuities and debt protection products.
Selected income statement data
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings were $3.4 billion, up $1.2 billion from the prior year. The increase was due largely to the Merger but also reflected increased deposit balances and wider spreads, higher home equity and subprime mortgage balances, and expense savings in all businesses. These benefits were partially offset by narrower spreads on retained loan portfolios, the special provision for Hurricane Katrina and net losses associated with portfolio loan sales in the Home Finance and Auto businesses.
Net revenue increased to $14.8 billion, up $4.0 billion, or 37%, due primarily to the Merger. Net interest income of $10.2 billion increased by $2.5 billion as a result of the Merger, increased deposit balances and wider spreads, and growth in retained consumer real estate loans. These benefits were offset partially by narrower spreads on loan balances and the absence of loan portfolios sold in late 2004 and early 2005. Noninterest revenue of $4.6 billion increased by $1.5 billion due to the Merger, improved MSR risk management results, higher automobile operating lease income and increased banking fees. These benefits were offset in part by losses on portfolio loan sales in the Home Finance and Auto businesses.
The Provision for credit losses totaled $724 million, up $275 million, or 61%, from 2004. Results included a special provision in 2005 for Hurricane Katrina of $250 million and a release in 2004 of $87 million in the Allowance for loan losses related to the sale of the manufactured home loan portfolio. Excluding these items, the Provision for credit losses would have been down $62 million, or 12%. The decline reflected reductions in the Allowance for loan losses due to improved credit trends in most consumer lending portfolios and the benefit of certain portfolios in run-off. These reductions were partially offset by the Merger and higher provision expense related to the decision to retain subprime mortgage loans.
Noninterest expense rose to $8.6 billion, an increase of $1.8 billion from the prior year, due primarily to the Merger. The increase also reflected continued investment in retail banking distribution and sales, increased depreciation expense on owned automobiles subject to operating leases and a $40 million charge related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture. Expense savings across all businesses provided a favorable offset.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $2.2 billion, up from $1.5 billion a year ago. The increase was due largely to the Merger. Excluding the benefit of the Merger, earnings declined as lower MSR risk management results and reduced prime mortgage production revenue offset the benefits of growth in loan balances, wider spreads on deposit products and improvement in credit costs.
Total net revenue increased to $10.8 billion, up 45% from the prior year. Net interest income increased by 48% to $7.7 billion, primarily due to the Merger, growth in retained loan balances and wider spreads on deposit products. Noninterest revenue increased to $3.1 billion, up 39%, due to the Merger and higher mortgage servicing income. Both components of total revenue included declines associated with risk managing the MSR asset and lower prime mortgage originations.
The Provision for credit losses was down 14% to $449 million despite the impact of the Merger. The effect of the Merger was offset by a reduction in the Allowance for loan losses resulting from the sale of the manufactured home loan portfolio, and continued positive credit quality trends in the consumer lending businesses.
Noninterest expense totaled $6.8 billion, up 53% from the prior year, primarily due to the Merger and continued investment to expand the branch network. Partially offsetting the increase were merger-related expense savings in all businesses.
 
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Selected metrics
Home Finance
Home Finance is comprised of two key business segments: Prime Production & Servicing and Consumer Real Estate Lending. The Prime Production & Servicing segment includes the operating results associated with the origination, sale and servicing of prime mortgages. Consumer Real Estate Lending reflects the operating results of consumer loans that are secured by real estate, retained by the Firm and held in the portfolio. This portfolio includes prime and subprime first mortgages, home equity lines and loans, and manufactured home loans. The Firm stopped originating manufactured home loans early in 2004 and sold substantially all of its remaining portfolio in 2004.
Selected income statement data by business
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings were $1.4 billion, up $236 million from the prior year, primarily due to the Merger, higher loan balances, reduced expenses and improved MSR risk management results.
Operating earnings for the Prime Production & Servicing segment totaled $422 million, up $182 million from the prior year. Net revenue of $1.6 billion increased by $118 million, reflecting improved MSR risk management results. The increase in MSR risk management results was due in part to the absence of prior-year securities losses on repositioning of the risk management asset. Decreased mortgage production revenue attributable to lower volume partially offset this benefit. Noninterest expense of $943 million decreased by $172 million, reflecting lower production volume and operating efficiencies.
Operating earnings for the Consumer Real Estate Lending segment increased by $54 million to $935 million. The current year included a loss of $120 million associated with the transfer of $3.3 billion of mortgage loans to held-for-sale, and a $140 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina. Prior-year results included a $95 million net benefit associated with the sale of a $4.0 billion manufactured home loan portfolio and a $52 million charge related to a transfer of adjustable rate mortgage loans to held-for-sale. Excluding the after-tax impact of these items, earnings would have been up $242 million, reflecting the Merger, higher loan balances and lower expenses, partially offset by loan spread compression due to rising short-term interest rates and a flat yield curve, which contributed to accelerated home equity loan payoffs.
Home Finance uses a combination of derivatives, AFS securities and trading securities to manage changes in the fair value of the MSR asset. These risk management activities are intended to protect the economic value of the MSR asset by providing offsetting changes in the fair value of the related risk management instruments. The type and amount of instruments used in this risk management activity change over time as market conditions and approach dictate.
 
 
During 2005, positive MSR valuation adjustments of $777 million were partially offset by losses of $494 million on risk management instruments, including net interest earned on AFS securities. In 2004, negative MSR valuation adjustments of $248 million were more than offset by $361 million of aggregate risk management gains, including net interest earned on AFS securities. Unrealized losses on AFS securities were $174 million, $3 million and $144 million at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. For a further discussion of MSRs, see Critical accounting estimates on page 83 and Note 15 on pages 114116 of this Annual Report.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings in the Prime Production & Servicing segment dropped to $240 million from $918 million in the prior year. Results reflected a decrease in prime mortgage production revenue, to $728 million from $1.3 billion, due to a decline in mortgage originations. Operating earnings were also adversely affected by a drop in MSR risk management revenue, to $113 million from $784 million in the prior year. Results in 2004 included realized losses of $89 million on the sale of AFS securities associated with the risk management of the MSR asset, compared with securities gains of $359 million in the prior year. Noninterest expense was relatively flat at $1.1 billion.
Operating earnings for the Consumer Real Estate Lending segment more than doubled to $881 million from $414 million in the prior year. The increase was largely due to the addition of the Bank One home equity lending business but also reflected growth in retained loan balances and a $95 million net benefit associated with the sale of the $4 billion manufactured home loan portfolio; partially offsetting these increases were lower subprime mortgage securitization gains as a result of management's decision in 2004 to retain these loans. These factors contributed to total net revenue rising 61% to $2.4 billion. The provision for credit losses, at $74 million, decreased by 69% from a year ago. This improvement was the result of an $87 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses associated with the manufactured home loan portfolio sale, improved credit quality and lower delinquencies, partially offset by the Merger. Noninterest expense totaled $922 million, up 52% from the year-ago period, largely due to the Merger.
Home Finance's origination channels are comprised of the following:
 Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home are directly contacted by a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.
Retail
 A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for loans.
Wholesale
 Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions sell closed loans to the Firm.
Correspondent
 Mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis. These transactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportunities in the servicing portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.
Correspondent negotiated transactions ("CNT")
Selected metrics
 
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The table below reconciles management's disclosure of Home Finance's revenue into the reported U.S. GAAP line items shown on the Consolidated statements of income and in the related Notes to Consolidated financial statements:
The following table details the MSR risk management results in the Home Finance business:
MSR risk management results
Consumer & Small Business Banking
Consumer & Small Business Banking offers a full array of financial services through a branch network spanning 17 states as well as through the Internet. Product offerings include checking and savings accounts, mutual funds and annuities, credit cards, mortgages and home equity loans, and loans for small business customers (customers with annual sales generally less than $10 million).
Selected income statement data
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm's results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings totaled $1.7 billion, up $924 million from the prior year. While growth largely reflected the Merger, results also included increased deposit balances and wider spreads, as well as higher debit card and other banking fees. These factors contributed to net revenue increasing to $8.4 billion from $5.4 billion in the prior year. The Provision for credit losses of $214 million increased by $49 million; excluding the special provision of $90 million related to Hurricane Katrina, the Provision would have decreased by $41 million from the prior year, reflecting lower net charge-offs and improved credit quality trends. Noninterest expense increased by $1.5 billion to $5.4 billion, as a result of the Merger and continued investment in branch distribution and sales, partially offset by merger efficiencies.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings totaled $760 million, up from a loss of $4 million in the prior-year period. The increase was largely due to the Merger but also reflected wider spreads on deposits and lower expenses. These benefits were partially offset by a higher Provision for credit losses.
Total net revenue was $5.4 billion, compared with $2.4 billion in the prior year. While the increase was primarily attributable to the Merger, total net revenue also benefited from wider spreads on deposits.
The Provision for credit losses increased to $165 million from $76 million in the prior year. The increase was in part due to the Merger but also reflected an increase in the allowance for credit losses to cover high-risk portfolio segments.
The increase in Noninterest expense to $4.0 billion was largely attributable to the Merger. Incremental expense from investment in the branch distribution network was also a contributing factor.
 
 
Selected metrics
Auto & Education Finance
Auto & Education Finance provides automobile loans and leases to consumers and loans to commercial clients, primarily through a national network of automotive dealers. The segment is also a top provider of loans to students at colleges and universities across the United States.
Selected income statement data
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings were $307 million, up $37 million from the prior year. The current year included a net loss of $83 million associated with a $2.3 billion auto loan securitization; a net loss of $42 million associated with a $1.5 billion auto loan securitization; a $40 million charge related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture; a benefit of $34 million from the sale of a $2 billion recreational vehicle loan portfolio; and the $20 million special provision for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina. The prior-year results included charges of $65 million related to auto lease residuals. Excluding the after-tax impact of these items, operating earnings would have increased by $90 million over the prior year, primarily due to the Merger and improved credit quality. Results continued to reflect lower production volumes and narrower spreads.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings totaled $270 million, up 31% from the prior year. The increase was due to the Merger, offset by narrower spreads and reduced origination volumes reflecting a competitive operating environment.
Total net revenue increased by 36% to $1.1 billion from the prior year. This increase was due to the Merger, which more than offset a decline in net interest income, reflecting the competitive operating environment in 2004, and incremental charges associated with the Firm's auto lease residual exposure.
The following is a brief description of selected terms used by Consumer & Small Business Banking.
 
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The Provision for credit losses totaled $210 million, up 2% from the prior year. The increase was due to the Merger but was largely offset by a lower Provision for credit losses, reflecting favorable credit trends.
Noninterest expense increased by 68% to $490 million, largely due to the Merger.
Selected metrics
Insurance
Insurance is a provider of financial protection products and services, including life insurance, annuities and debt protection. Products and services are distributed through both internal lines of business and external markets. On February 7, 2006, the Firm signed a definitive agreement to sell its life insurance and annuity underwriting business.
Selected income statement data
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings totaled $79 million, an increase of $31 million from the prior year, on net revenues of $644 million. The increase was due primarily to the Merger. Results also reflected an increase in proprietary annuity sales commissions paid and lower expenses from merger savings and other efficiencies.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings totaled $48 million on Total net revenue of $393 million in 2004. The increases in Total net revenue and Noninterest expense over the prior year were due almost entirely to the Merger.
Selected metrics
The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Insurance.
 
Card Services
Card Services is one of the largest issuers of credit cards in the United States, with more than 110 million cards in circulation, and is the largest merchant acquirer. CS offers a wide variety of products to satisfy the needs of its cardmembers, including cards issued on behalf of many well-known partners, such as major airlines, hotels, universities, retailers and other financial institutions.
JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of "managed receivables" to evaluate the credit performance of the underlying credit card loans, both sold and not sold: as the same borrower is continuing to use the credit card for ongoing charges, a borrower's credit performance will affect both the receivables sold under SFAS 140 and those not sold. Thus, in its disclosures regarding managed receivables, JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance sheet in order to disclose the credit performance (such as net charge-off rates) of the entire managed credit card portfolio.
Operating results exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on revenue, the Provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and receivables. Securitization does not change reported Net income versus operating earnings; however, it does affect the classification of items on the Consolidated statements of income.
Selected income statement data  managed basis
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings of $1.9 billion were up $633 million, or 50%, from the prior year due to the Merger. In addition, lower expenses driven by merger savings, stronger underlying credit quality and higher revenue from increased loan balances and charge volume were partially offset by the impact of increased bankruptcies.
Net revenue was $15.4 billion, up $4.6 billion, or 43%. Net interest income was $11.8 billion, up $3.4 billion, or 41%, primarily due to the Merger, and the acquisition of a private label portfolio. In addition, higher loan balances were partially offset by narrower loan spreads and the reversal of revenue related to increased bankruptcies. Noninterest revenue of $3.6 billion was up $1.2 billion, or 50%, due to the Merger and higher interchange income from higher charge volume, partially offset by higher volume-driven payments to partners, higher expense related to rewards programs and the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech.
The Provision for credit losses was $7.3 billion, up $2.5 billion, or 51%, primarily due to the Merger, and included the acquisition of a private label portfolio. The provision also increased due to record bankruptcy-related net charge-offs resulting from the new bankruptcy legislation, which became effective on October 17, 2005. Finally, the Allowance for loan losses was increased in part by the special provision for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina. These factors were partially offset by lower contractual net charge-offs. Despite a record level of bankruptcy losses, the net charge-off rate improved. The managed net charge-off rate was 5.21%, down from 5.27% in the prior year. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 2.79%, down from 3.70% in the prior year, driven primarily by accelerated loss recognition of delinquent accounts as a result of the bankruptcy reform legislation and strong underlying credit quality.
Noninterest expense of $5.0 billion increased by $1.1 billion, or 29%, primarily due to the Merger, which included the acquisition of a private label portfolio. Merger savings, including lower processing and compensation costs and the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech, were partially offset by higher spending on marketing.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings of $1.3 billion increased by $591 million compared with the prior year, primarily due to the Merger. In addition, earnings benefited from higher loan balances and charge volume, partially offset by a higher Provision for credit losses and higher expenses.
Total net revenue of $10.7 billion increased by $4.6 billion. Net interest income of $8.4 billion increased by $3.3 billion, primarily due to the Merger and higher loan balances. Noninterest revenue of $2.4 billion increased by $1.3 billion, primarily due to the Merger and increased interchange income resulting from higher charge-off volume. These factors were partially offset by higher volume-driven payments to partners, reflecting the sharing of income and increased rewards expense.
The Provision for credit losses of $4.9 billion increased by $1.9 billion, primarily due to the Merger and growth in credit card receivables. Credit ratios remained strong, benefiting from reduced contractual and bankruptcy charge-offs. The net charge-off ratio was 5.27%. The 30-day delinquency ratio was 3.70%.
Noninterest expense of $3.9 billion increased by $1.7 billion, primarily related to the Merger. In addition, expenses increased due to higher marketing expenses and volume-based processing expenses, partially offset by lower compensation expenses.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Selected metrics
The financial information presented below reconciles reported basis and managed basis to disclose the effect of securitizations.
The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Card Services.
 
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking serves more than 25,000 clients, including corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profit entities with annual revenues generally ranging from $10 million to $2 billion. While most Middle Market clients are within the Retail Financial Services footprint, CB also covers larger corporations, as well as local governments and financial institutions on a national basis. CB is a market leader with superior client penetration across the businesses it serves. Local market presence, coupled with industry expertise and excellent client service and risk management, enable CB to offer superior financial advice. Partnership with other JPMorgan Chase businesses positions CB to deliver broad product capabilities including lending, treasury services, investment banking, and asset and wealth management  and meet its clients' financial needs.
Selected income statement data
Commercial Banking operates in 10 of the top 15 major U.S. metropolitan areas and is divided into three customer segments: Middle Market Banking, Mid-Corporate Banking and Real Estate. General coverage for corporate clients is provided by Middle Market Banking, which covers clients with annual revenues generally up to $500 million. Mid-Corporate Banking covers clients with annual revenues generally ranging between $500 million and $2 billion and focuses on clients that have broader investment banking needs. The third segment, Real Estate, serves investors in, and developers of, for-sale housing, multifamily rental, retail, office, and industrial properties. In addition to these three customer segments, Commercial Banking offers several products to the Firm's entire customer base: Chase Business Credit, the #1 asset-based lender for 2005, provides asset-based financing, syndications, and collateral analysis, and Chase Equipment Leasing offers a variety of equipment finance and leasing products, with specialties in aircraft finance, public sector, and information technology. Given this structure, Commercial Banking manages a customer base and loan portfolio that is highly diversified across a broad range of industries and geographic locations.
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings of $951 million were up $343 million from the prior year, primarily due to the Merger.
Net revenue of $3.5 billion increased by $1.1 billion, or 47%, primarily as a result of the Merger. In addition to the overall increase from the Merger, Net interest income of $2.5 billion was positively affected by wider spreads on higher volume related to liability balances and increased loans, partially offset by narrower loan spreads. Noninterest revenue of $986 million was lower due to a decline in deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates, partially offset by increased investment banking revenue.
Each business within Commercial Banking demonstrated revenue growth over the prior year, primarily due to the Merger. Middle Market revenue was $2.4 billion, an increase of $859 million over the prior year; Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $551 million, an increase of $184 million; and Real Estate revenue was $434 million, up $66 million. In addition to the Merger, revenue was higher for each business due to wider spreads and higher volume related to liability balances and increased investment banking revenue, partially offset by narrower loan spreads.
Provision for credit losses of $73 million increased by $32 million, primarily due to a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina, increased loan balances and refinements in the data used to estimate the allowance for credit losses. The credit quality of the portfolio was strong with net charge-offs of $26 million, down $35 million from the prior year, and nonperforming loans of $272 million, down $255 million.
Noninterest expense of $1.9 billion increased by $513 million, or 38%, primarily due to the Merger and to an increase in allocated unit costs for Treasury Services products.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $608 million, an increase of 98%, primarily due to the Merger.
Total net revenue was $2.4 billion, an increase of 76%, primarily due to the Merger. In addition to the overall increase related to the Merger, Net interest income of $1.7 billion was positively affected by higher liability balances, partially offset by lower lending-related revenue. Noninterest revenue of $682 million was positively affected by higher investment banking fees and higher gains on the sale of loans and securities acquired in satisfaction of debt, partially offset by lower deposit-related fees, which often decline as interest rates rise.
The Provision for credit losses was $41 million, an increase of $35 million, primarily due to the Merger. Excluding the impact of the Merger, the provision was higher in 2004. Lower net charge-offs in 2004 were partially offset by smaller reductions in the allowance for credit losses in 2004 relative to 2003.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion, an increase of $521 million, or 63%, primarily related to the Merger.
Selected metrics
Commercial Banking revenues are comprised of the following:
includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are often provided on a basis secured by receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets. Products include:
Lending
includes a broad range of products and services enabling clients to transfer, invest and manage the receipt and disbursement of funds, while providing the related information reporting. These products and services include:
Treasury services
products provide clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives, as well as balance sheet and risk management tools, through:
Investment banking
 
Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in providing transaction, investment and information services to support the needs of corporations, issuers and institutional investors worldwide. TSS is one of the largest cash management providers in the world and a leading global custodian. The TS business provides a variety of cash management products, trade finance and logistics solutions, wholesale card products, and short-term liquidity management tools. The IS business provides custody, fund services, securities lending, and performance measurement and execution products. The ITS business provides clearance and collateral management, ADR depository, asset servicing, deposit and escrow services. TS partners with the Commercial Banking, Consumer & Small Business Banking and Asset & Wealth Management businesses to serve clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenues are included in other segments' results. TSS combined the management of the IS and ITS businesses under the name WSS to create an integrated franchise which provides custody and investor services as well as securities clearance and trust services to clients globally. Beginning January 1, 2006, TSS will report results for two divisions: TS and WSS.
The Firm has announced the exchange of select corporate trust businesses including trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management for the consumer, small business and middle market banking businesses of The Bank of New York. These corporate trust businesses, which were previously reported in TSS, have been deemed discontinued operations. The related balance sheet, income statement and assets under custody activity were transferred to the Corporate segment during the second quarter of 2006, and all prior periods have been revised to reflect this transfer.
Selected income statement data
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings were $863 million, an increase of $629 million, or 269%. Primarily driving the improvement in revenue were the Merger, business growth, and widening spreads on and growth in average liability balances. Noninterest expense increased primarily due to the Merger and higher compensation expense. Results for 2005 also included charges of $58 million (after-tax) to terminate a client contract. Results for 2004 also included software-impairment charges of $97 million (after-tax) and a gain of $10 million (after-tax) on the sale of a business.
TSS net revenue of $5.5 billion increased $1.4 billion, or 34%. Net interest income grew to $1.9 billion, up $731 million, due to wider spreads on liability balances, a change in the corporate deposit pricing methodology in 2004 and growth in average liability balances. Noninterest revenue of $3.7 billion increased by $676 million, or 23%, due to product growth across TSS, the Merger and the acquisition of Vastera. Leading the product revenue growth was an increase in assets under custody to $10.7 trillion, primarily driven by market value appreciation and new business, along with growth in wholesale card, securities lending, foreign exchange, trade, clearing and ACH revenues. Partially offsetting this growth in noninterest revenue was a decline in deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates and the absence, in the current period, of a gain on the sale of a business.
TS net revenue of $2.7 billion grew by $701 million, Investor Services net revenue of $2.2 billion grew by $446 million, and Institutional Trust Services net revenue of $689 million grew by $260 million. TSS firmwide net revenue, which includes TS net revenue recorded in other lines of business, grew to $7.8 billion, up $2.0 billion, or 34%. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to $4.9 billion, up $1.3 billion, or 35%.
Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was $154 million, an increase of $64 million, primarily as a result of the Merger. TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the Investment Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.
Noninterest expense of $4.1 billion was up $324 million, or 9%, due to the Merger, increased compensation expense resulting from new business growth and the Vastera acquisition, and charges of $93 million to terminate a client contract. Partially offsetting these increases were higher product unit costs charged to other lines of business, primarily Commercial Banking, lower allocations of Corporate segment expenses, merger savings and business efficiencies. The prior year included software-impairment charges of $155 million.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings for the year were $234 million, a decrease of $33 million, or 12%. Results in 2004 include an after-tax gain of $10 million on the sale of an IS business. Prior-year results include an after-tax gain of $22 million on the sale of an ITS business. Excluding these one-time gains, operating earnings would have decreased by $21 million, or 9%. Both net revenue and Noninterest expense increased primarily as a result of the Merger and the acquisition of Electronic Financial Services ("EFS") in January 2004.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
TSS net revenue improved by 37% to $4.1 billion. This revenue growth reflected the benefit of the Merger, the acquisition noted above, and improved product revenues across TSS. Net interest income grew to $1.1 billion from $789 million as a result of average liability balance growth of 53%, to $110 billion, a change in the corporate deposit pricing methodology in 2004 and wider deposit spreads. Growth in fees and commissions was driven by a 22% increase in assets under custody to $9.3 trillion as well as new business growth in trade, commercial card, global equity products, securities lending, fund services, clearing and ACH. Partially offsetting these improvements were lower deposit-related fees, which often decline as interest rates rise, and a soft municipal bond market.
TS net revenue grew to $2.0 billion, IS to $1.7 billion and ITS to $429 million. TSS firmwide net revenue grew by 44% to $5.8 billion. TSS firmwide net revenues include TS net revenues recorded in other lines of business.
Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was $90 million, compared with a credit from the Investment Bank of $36 million in the prior year, principally due to the Merger and a change in methodology. TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the Investment Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.
Noninterest expense totaled $3.7 billion, up from $2.7 billion, reflecting the Merger, the acquisition noted above, $155 million of software impairment charges, upfront transition expenses related to on-boarding new custody and fund accounting clients, and legal and technology-related expenses.
firmwide metrics include certain TSS product revenues and liability balances reported in other lines of business related to customers who are also customers of those other lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenues, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenues and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary, in management's view, in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
Treasury & Securities Services
Selected metrics
 
Asset & Wealth Management
Asset & Wealth Management provides investment advice and management for institutions and individuals. With Assets under supervision of $1.1 trillion, AWM is one of the largest asset and wealth managers in the world. AWM serves four distinct client groups through three businesses: institutions through JPMorgan Asset Management; ultra-high-net-worth clients through the Private Bank; high-net-worth clients through Private Client Services; and retail clients through JPMorgan Asset Management. The majority of AWM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios. AWM has global investment expertise in equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity and liquidity, including both money market instruments and bank deposits. AWM also provides trust and estate services to ultra-high-net-worth and high-net-worth clients, and retirement services for corporations and individuals.
Selected income statement data
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings of $1.2 billion were up $535 million from the prior year due to the Merger and increased revenue, partially offset by higher compensation expense.
Net revenue was $5.7 billion, up $1.5 billion, or 36%. Noninterest revenue, primarily fees and commissions, of $4.6 billion was up $1.2 billion, principally due to the Merger, the acquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management in 2004, net asset inflows and global equity market appreciation. Net interest income of $1.1 billion was up $285 million, primarily due to the Merger, higher deposit and loan balances, partially offset by narrower deposit spreads.
Private Bank client segment revenue of $1.7 billion increased by $135 million. Retail client segment revenue of $1.5 billion increased by $360 million. Institutional client segment revenue was up $504 million to $1.4 billion due to the acquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management. Private Client Services client segment revenue grew by $486 million, to $1.0 billion.
Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $56 million, compared with a benefit of $14 million in the prior year, due to lower net charge-offs and refinements in the data used to estimate the allowance for credit losses.
Noninterest expense of $3.9 billion increased by $727 million, or 23%, reflecting the Merger, the acquisition of Highbridge and increased compensation expense related primarily to higher performance-based incentives.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $681 million, up 137% from the prior year, due largely to the Merger but also driven by increased revenue and a decrease in the Provision for credit losses; these were partially offset by higher Compensation expense.
Total net revenue was $4.2 billion, up 41%, primarily due to the Merger. Additionally, fees and commissions increased due to global equity market appreciation, net asset inflows and the acquisition of JPMorgan Retirement Plan Services ("RPS") in 2003. Fees and commissions also increased due to an improved product mix, with an increased percentage of assets in higher-yielding products. Net interest income increased due to deposit and loan growth.
The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $14 million, a decrease of $49 million, due to an improvement in credit quality.
Noninterest expense was $3.1 billion, up 26%, due to the Merger, increased Compensation expense and increased technology and marketing initiatives.
Selected metrics
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
AWM's client segments are comprised of the following:
serves large and mid-size corporate and public institutions, endowments and foundations, and governments globally. AWM offers these institutions comprehensive global investment services, including investment management across asset classes, pension analytics, asset-liability management, active risk budgeting and overlay strategies.
Institutional
The addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty wealth advisory services.
Private Bank
provides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning and administration through third-party and direct distribution channels.
Retail
offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business owners comprehensive wealth management solutions that include financial planning, personal trust, investment and banking products and services.
Private Client Services
Assets under supervision
2005 compared with 2004
Assets under supervision ("AUS") at December 31, 2005, were $1.1 trillion, up 4%, or $43 billion, from the prior year despite a $33 billion reduction due to the sale of BrownCo. Assets under management ("AUM") were $847 billion, up 7%. The increase was primarily the result of net asset inflows in equity-related products and global equity market appreciation. The Firm also has a 43% interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $101 billion and $98 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Custody, brokerage, administration, and deposits were $302 billion, down $13 billion due to a $33 billion reduction from the sale of BrownCo.
2004 compared with 2003
Assets under supervision at December 31, 2004, were $1.1 trillion, up 45% from 2003, and Assets under management were $791 billion, up 41% from the prior year. The increases were primarily the result of the Merger, as well as market appreciation, net asset inflows and the acquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management. The Firm also has a 43% interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $98 billion and $87 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Custody, brokerage, administration, and deposits were $315 billion, up 55%, due to market appreciation, the Merger and net inflows across all products.
 
Corporate
The Corporate sector is comprised of Private Equity, Treasury, corporate staff units and expenses that are centrally managed. Private Equity includes the JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners businesses. Treasury manages the structural interest rate risk and investment portfolio for the Firm. The corporate staff units include Central Technology and Operations, Audit, Executive Office, Finance, Human Resources, Marketing & Communications, Office of the General Counsel, Corporate Real Estate and General Services, Risk Management, and Strategy and Development. Other centrally managed expenses include the Firm's occupancy and pension-related expenses, net of allocations to the business.
As a result of the pending transaction with The Bank of New York, certain portions of the corporate trust business were transferred from TSS to the Corporate segment during the second quarter of 2006, and are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Selected income statement data
2005 compared with 2004
Operating loss of $1.5 billion declined from earnings of $267 million in the prior year.
Net revenue was a loss of $1.1 billion compared with revenue of $885 million in the prior year. Noninterest revenue of $1.6 billion decreased by $491 million and included securities losses of $1.5 billion due to the repositioning of the Treasury investment portfolio, to manage exposure to interest rates, the gain on the sale of BrownCo of $1.3 billion and the increase in private equity gains of $262 million. For a further discussion on the sale of BrownCo, see Note 2 on page 93 of this Annual Report.
Net interest income was a loss of $2.7 billion compared with a loss of $1.2 billion in the prior year. Actions and policies adopted in conjunction with the Merger and the repositioning of the Treasury investment portfolio were the main drivers of the increased loss.
Noninterest expense was $2.0 billion, up $740 million, or 57%, from the prior year, primarily due to the Merger and the cost of the accelerated vesting of certain employee stock options. These increases were offset partially by merger-related savings and other expense efficiencies.
On September 15, 2004, JPMorgan Chase and IBM announced the Firm's plans to reintegrate the portions of its technology infrastructure  including data centers, help desks, distributed computing, data networks and voice networks  that were previously outsourced to IBM. In January 2005, approximately 3,100 employees and 800 contract employees were transferred to the Firm.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $267 million, down from earnings of $823 million in the prior year.
Noninterest revenue was $2.1 billion, up 57% from the prior year. The primary component of noninterest revenue is Securities /private equity gains, which totaled $1.8 billion, up 73% from the prior year. The increase was a result of net gains in the Private Equity portfolio of $1.4 billion in 2004 compared with $27 million in net gains in 2003. Partially offsetting these gains were lower investment securities gains in Treasury.
Net interest income was a loss of $1.2 billion compared with a loss of $133 million in the prior year. The increased loss was driven primarily by actions and policies adopted in conjunction with the Merger.
Noninterest expense of $1.3 billion was up $772 million from the prior year due to the Merger. The Merger resulted in higher gross compensation and noncompensation expenses. Allocations of compensation and noncompensation expenses to the businesses were lower than the gross expense increase due to certain policies adopted in conjunction with the Merger, which retain in Corporate overhead costs that would not be incurred by the lines of business if operated on a stand-alone basis, and costs in excess of the market price for services provided by the corporate staff and technology and operations areas.
Selected metrics
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Private equity
2005 compared with 2004
Private Equity's operating earnings for the year were $821 million compared with $602 million in the prior year. This improvement in earnings reflected an increase of $262 million in private equity gains to $1.7 billion, a 15% reduction in noninterest expenses and a $62 million decline in net funding costs of carrying portfolio investments. Private equity gains benefited from continued favorable markets for investment sales and recapitalizations, resulting in nearly $2 billion of realized gains. The carrying value of the private equity portfolio declined by $1.3 billion to $6.2 billion as of December 31, 2005. This decline was primarily the result of sales and recapitalizations of direct investments.
2004 compared with 2003
Private Equity's operating earnings for the year totaled $602 million compared with a loss of $290 million in 2003. This improvement reflected a $1.4 billion increase in total private equity gains. In 2004, markets improved for investment sales, resulting in $1.4 billion of realized gains on direct investments, compared with realized gains of $535 million in 2003. Net write-downs on direct investments were $192 million in 2004 compared with net write-downs of $404 million in 2003, as valuations continued to stabilize amid positive market conditions.
The carrying value of the Private Equity portfolio at December 31, 2004, was $7.5 billion, an increase of $247 million from December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily the result of the acquisition of ONE Equity Partners as a result of the Merger. Excluding ONE Equity Partners, the portfolio declined as a result of sales of investments, which was consistent with management's intention to reduce over time the capital committed to private equity. Sales of third-party fund investments resulted in a decrease in carrying value of $458 million, to $641 million at December 31, 2004, compared with $1.1 billion at December 31, 2003.
Selected income statement and
balance sheet data  Private equity
 
Balance sheet analysis
Selected balance sheet data
Securities purchased under resale agreements and Securities sold under repurchase agreements
The increase in Securities purchased under resale agreements was due primarily to growth in client-driven financing activities in North America and Europe.
Trading assets and liabilities  debt and equity instruments
The Firm's debt and equity trading instruments consist primarily of fixed income securities (including government and corporate debt) and equity and convertible cash instruments used for both market-making and proprietary risk-taking activities. The increase over December 31, 2004, was primarily due to growth in client-driven market-making activities across interest rate, credit and equity markets. For additional information, refer to Note 3 on page 94 of this Annual Report.
Trading assets and liabilities  derivative receivables and payables
The Firm uses various interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, credit and commodity derivatives for market-making, proprietary risk-taking and risk management purposes. The decline from December 31, 2004, was primarily due to the appreciation of the U.S. dollar and, to a lesser extent, higher interest rates, partially offset by increased commodity trading activity and rising commodity prices. For additional information, refer to Credit risk management and Note 3 on pages 63-74 and 94, respectively, of this Annual Report.
Securities
The AFS portfolio declined by $46.9 billion from December 31, 2004, primarily due to securities sales (as a result of management's decision to reposition the Treasury investment portfolio to manage exposure to interest rates) and maturities, which more than offset purchases. For additional information related to securities, refer to the Corporate segment discussion and to Note 9 on pages 53-54 and 103-105, respectively, of this Annual Report.
Loans
The $17 billion increase in gross loans was due primarily to an increase of $15 billion in the wholesale portfolio, primarily from the IB, reflecting higher balances of loans held-for-sale ("HFS") related to securitization and syndication activities, and growth in the IB Credit Portfolio. Wholesale HFS loans were $18 billion as of December 31, 2005, compared with $6 billion as of December 31, 2004. For consumer loans, growth in consumer real estate (primarily home equity loans) and credit card loans was offset largely by a decline in the auto portfolio. The increase in credit card loans primarily reflected growth from new account originations and the acquisition of $1.5 billion of Sears Canada loans on the balance sheet. The decline in the auto portfolio primarily reflected a difficult auto lending market in 2005, $3.8 billion of securitizations and was also the result of a strategic review of the portfolio in 2004 that led to the decisions to de-emphasize vehicle leasing and sell a $2 billion recreational vehicle portfolio. For a more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the Allowance for loan losses, refer to Credit risk management on pages 63-74 of this Annual Report.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets
The $293 million increase in Goodwill and Other intangible assets primarily resulted from higher MSRs due to growth in the servicing portfolio as well as an overall increase in the valuation from improved market conditions; the business partnership with Cazenove; the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business; and the Neovest and Vastera acquisitions. Partially offsetting the increase were declines from the amortization of purchased credit card relationships and core deposit intangibles and the deconsolidation of Paymentech. For additional information, see Note 15 on pages 114-116 of this Annual Report.
Deposits
Deposits increased by 6% from December 31, 2004. Retail deposits increased, reflecting growth from new account acquisitions and the ongoing expansion of the retail branch distribution network. Wholesale deposits were higher, driven by growth in business volumes. For more information on deposits, refer to the RFS segment discussion and the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 39-44 and 61-62, respectively, of this Annual Report. For more information on liability balances, refer to the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 47- 48 and 49-50, respectively, of this Annual Report.
Long-term debt and capital debt securities
Long-term debt and capital debt securities increased by $14.2 billion, or 13%, from December 31, 2004, primarily due to net new issuances of long-term debt and capital debt securities. The Firm took advantage of narrow credit spreads globally to issue opportunistically long-term debt and capital debt securities throughout 2005. Consistent with its liquidity management policy, the Firm raised funds sufficient to cover maturing obligations over the next 12 months and to support the less liquid assets on its balance sheet. Large investor cash positions and increased foreign investor participation in the corporate markets allowed JPMorgan Chase to diversify further its funding across the global markets while lengthening maturities. For additional information on the Firm's long-term debt activity, see the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 61-62 of this Annual Report.
Stockholders' equity
Total stockholders' equity increased by $1.6 billion from year-end 2004 to $107.2 billion at December 31, 2005. The increase was the result of net income for 2005 and common stock issued under employee plans, partially offset by cash dividends, stock repurchases, the redemption of $200 million of preferred stock and net unrealized losses in Accumulated other comprehensive income. For a further discussion of capital, see the Capital management section that follows.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Capital management
The Firm's capital management framework is intended to ensure that there is capital sufficient to support the underlying risks of the Firm's business activities, as measured by economic risk capital, and to maintain "well-capitalized" status under regulatory requirements. In addition, the Firm holds capital above these requirements in amounts deemed appropriate to achieve management's regulatory and debt rating objectives. The Firm's capital framework is integrated into the process of assigning equity to the lines of business.
Line of business equity
The Firm's framework for allocating capital is based upon the following objectives:
Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes the business would require if it were operating independently, incorporating sufficient capital to address economic risk measures, regulatory capital requirements, and capital levels for similarly rated peers. Return on equity is measured and internal targets for expected returns are established as a key measure of a business segment's performance.
For performance management purposes, the Firm initiated a methodology at the time of the Merger for allocating goodwill. Under this methodology, in the last half of 2004 and all of 2005, goodwill from the Merger and from any business acquisition by either heritage firm prior to the Merger was allocated to Corporate, as was any associated equity. Therefore, 2005 line of business equity is not comparable to equity assigned to the lines of business in prior years. The increase in average common equity in the following table for 2005 was attributable primarily to the Merger.
Effective January 1, 2006, the Firm expects to refine its methodology for allocating capital to the lines of business, and may continue to refine this methodology. The revised methodology, among other things, considers for each line of business goodwill associated with such line of business' acquisitions since the Merger. As a result of this refinement, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management will have higher amounts of capital allocated in 2006, while the amount of capital allocated to the Investment Bank will remain unchanged. In management's view, the revised methodology assigns responsibility to the lines of business to generate returns on the amount of capital supporting acquisition-related goodwill. As part of this refinement in the capital allocation methodology, the Firm will assign to the Corporate segment an amount of equity capital equal to the then-current book value of goodwill from and prior to the Merger. In accordance with SFAS 142, the lines of business will continue to perform the required goodwill impairment testing. For a further discussion of goodwill and impairment testing, see Critical accounting estimates and Note 15 on pages 81-83 and 114-116, respectively, of this Annual Report
Economic risk capital
JPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the underlying risks of the Firm's business activities, utilizing internal risk-assessment methodologies. The Firm assigns economic capital based primarily upon five risk factors: credit risk, market risk, operational risk and business risk for each business; and private equity risk, principally for the Firm's private equity business.
Credit risk capital
Credit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses (Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management) and consumer businesses (Retail Financial Services and Card Services).
Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined in terms of unexpected credit losses, both from defaults and declines in market value due to credit deterioration, measured over a one-year period at a confidence level consistent with the level of capitalization necessary to achieve a targeted AA' solvency standard. Unexpected losses are in excess of those for which provisions for credit losses are maintained. In addition to maturity and correlations, capital allocation is differentiated by several principal drivers of credit risk: exposure at default (or loan equivalent amount), likelihood of default, loss severity, and market credit spread.
 
Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is intended to represent a capital level sufficient to support an AA' rating, and its allocation is based upon product and other relevant risk segmentation. Actual segment level default and severity experience are used to estimate unexpected losses for a one-year horizon at a confidence level equivalent to the AA' solvency standard. Statistical results for certain segments or portfolios are adjusted upward to ensure that capital is consistent with external benchmarks, including subordination levels on market transactions and capital held at representative monoline competitors, where appropriate.
Market risk capital
The Firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that capital should reflect the risk of loss in the value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by adverse movements in market variables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, securities prices and commodities prices. Daily VAR, monthly stress-test results and other factors are used to determine appropriate capital levels. The Firm allocates market risk capital to each business segment according to a formula that weights that segment's VAR and stress test exposures. See Market risk management on pages 75-78 of this Annual Report for more information about these market risk measures.
Operational risk capital
Capital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using a risk-based capital allocation methodology which estimates operational risk on a bottom-up basis. The operational risk capital model is based upon actual losses and potential scenario-based stress losses, with adjustments to the capital calculation to reflect changes in the quality of the control environment or the potential offset as a result of the use of risk-transfer products. The Firm believes the model is consistent with the new Basel II Framework and expects to propose it eventually for qualification under the advanced measurement approach for operational risk.
Business risk capital
Business risk is defined as the risk associated with volatility in the Firm's earnings due to factors not captured by other parts of its economic-capital framework. Such volatility can arise from ineffective design or execution of business strategies, volatile economic or financial market activity, changing client expectations and demands, and restructuring to adjust for changes in the competitive environment. For business risk, capital is allocated to each business based upon historical revenue volatility and measures of fixed and variable expenses. Earnings volatility arising from other risk factors, such as credit, market, or operational risk, is excluded from the measurement of business risk capital, as those factors are captured under their respective risk capital models.
Private equity risk capital
Capital is allocated to privately- and publicly-held securities, third-party fund investments and commitments in the Private Equity portfolio to cover the potential loss associated with a decline in equity markets and related asset devaluations.
Regulatory capital
The Firm's federal banking regulator, the Federal Reserve Board ("FRB"), establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards for the consolidated financial holding company. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC") establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Firm's national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank and Chase Bank USA, National Association.
The federal banking regulatory agencies issued a final rule that makes permanent an interim rule issued in 2000 that provides regulatory capital relief for certain cash-collateralized securities borrowed transactions, effective February 22, 2006. The final rule also broadens the types of transactions qualifying for regulatory capital relief under the interim rule. Adoption of the rule is not expected to have a material effect on the Firm's capital ratios.
On March 1, 2005, the FRB issued a final rule, which became effective April 11, 2005, that continues the inclusion of trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital, subject to stricter quantitative limits and revised qualitative standards, and broadens the definition of restricted core capital elements. The rule provides for a five-year transition period. As an internationally active bank holding company, JPMorgan Chase is subject to the rule's limitation on restricted core capital elements, including trust preferred securities, to 15% of total core capital elements, net of goodwill less any associated deferred tax liability. At December 31, 2005, JPMorgan Chase's restricted core capital elements were 16.5% of total core capital elements. JPMorgan Chase expects to be in compliance with the 15% limit by the March 31, 2009, implementation date.
On July 20, 2004, the federal banking regulatory agencies issued a final rule that excludes assets of asset-backed commercial paper programs that are consolidated as a result of FIN 46R from risk-weighted assets for purposes of computing Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios. The final rule also requires that capital be held against short-term liquidity facilities supporting asset-backed commercial paper programs. The final rule became effective September 30, 2004. In addition, both short- and long-term liquidity facilities are subject to certain asset quality tests effective September 30, 2005. Adoption of the rule did not have a material effect on the capital ratios of the Firm.
The following tables show that JPMorgan Chase maintained a well-capitalized position based upon Tier 1 and Total capital ratios at December 31,2005 and 2004.
Capital ratios
Risk-based capital components and assets
Tier 1 capital was $72.5 billion at December 31, 2005, compared with $68.6 billion at December 31, 2004, an increase of $3.9 billion. The increase was due primarily to net income of $8.5 billion, net common stock issued under employee plans of $1.9 billion, $1.3 billion of additional qualifying trust preferred securities and a decline of $716 million in the deduction for nonqualifying intangible assets as a result of amortization. Offsetting these increases were dividends declared of $4.8 billion, common share repurchases of $3.4 billion, an increase in the deduction for goodwill of $418 million and the redemption of $200 million of preferred stock. Additional information regarding the Firm's capital ratios and the federal regulatory capital standards to which it is subject is presented in Note 24 on pages 121-122 of this Annual Report.
Basel II
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published the new Basel II Framework in 2004 in an effort to update the original international bank capital
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
accord ("Basel I"), in effect since 1988. The goal of the Basel II Framework is to improve the consistency of capital requirements internationally, make regulatory capital more risk-sensitive, and promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active banking organizations. JPMorgan Chase supports the overall objectives of the Basel II Framework.
U.S. banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II Framework into the existing risk-based capital requirements. JPMorgan Chase will be required to implement advanced measurement techniques in the U.S. by employing internal estimates of certain key risk drivers to derive capital requirements. Prior to implementation of the new Basel II Framework, JPMorgan Chase will be required to demonstrate to its U.S. bank supervisors that its internal criteria meet the relevant supervisory standards. JPMorgan Chase expects to be in compliance within the established timelines with all relevant Basel II rules.
Dividends
The Firm's common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan Chase's earnings outlook, desired payout ratios, need to maintain an adequate capital level and alternative investment opportunities. In 2005, JPMorgan Chase declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of $0.34 per share. The Firm continues to target a dividend payout ratio of 30-40% of operating earnings over time.
Stock repurchases
On July 20, 2004, the Board of Directors approved an initial stock repurchase program in the aggregate amount of $6.0 billion. This amount includes shares to be repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm's employee stock-based plans. The actual amount of shares repurchased is subject to various factors, including market conditions; legal considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm's capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative potential investment opportunities. Under the stock repurchase program, during 2005, the Firm repurchased 93.5 million shares for $3.4 billion at an average price per share of $36.46. During 2004, the Firm repurchased 19.3 million shares for $738 million at an average price per share of $38.27. As of December 31, 2005, $1.9 billion of authorized repurchase capacity remained.
The Firm has determined that it may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate the repurchase of common stock in accordance with the repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan would allow the Firm to repurchase shares during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common stock -for example, during internal trading "black-out periods." All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan that is established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic information.
For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm's equity securities, see Part II, Item 5, Market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities, on page 11 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Form 10-K.
Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations
Special-purpose entities
JPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities ("SPEs"), lines of credit and loan commitments. The principal uses of SPEs are to obtain sources of liquidity for JPMorgan Chase and its clients by securitizing financial assets, and to create other investment products for clients. These arrangements are an important part of the financial markets, providing market liquidity by facilitating investors' access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. For example, SPEs are integral to the markets for mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper, and other asset-backed securities.
The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors. To insulate investors from creditors of other entities, including the seller of assets, SPEs can be structured to be bankruptcy-remote.
JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories: loan securitizations, multi-seller conduits and client intermediation. Capital is held, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-related transactions and related exposures, such as derivative transactions and lending-related commitments. For a further discussion of SPEs and the Firm's accounting for them, see Note 1 on page 91, Note 13 on pages 108-111 and Note 14 on pages 111-113 of this Annual Report.
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE transaction, and its policies require that transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm's length and reflect market pricing. Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with which the Firm is involved where such investment would violate the Firm's Code of Conduct. These rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and prohibit employees from acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with which they or their family have any significant financial interest.
For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm could be required to provide funding if the credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded below specific levels, primarily P-1, A-1 and F1 for Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch, respectively. The amount of these liquidity commitments was $71.3 billion and $79.4 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded, the Firm could be replaced by another liquidity provider in lieu of providing funding under the liquidity commitment, or, in certain circumstances, could facilitate the sale or refinancing of the assets in the SPE in order to provide liquidity.
Of its $71.3 billion in liquidity commitments to SPEs at December 31, 2005, $38.9 billion was included in the Firm's other unfunded commitments to extend credit and asset purchase agreements, included in the following table. Of the $79.4 billion of liquidity commitments to SPEs at December 31, 2004, $47.7 billion was included in the Firm's other unfunded commitments to extend credit and asset purchase agreements. As a result of the Firm's consolidation of multi-seller conduits in accordance with FIN 46R, $32.4 billion of these commitments, compared with $31.7 billion at December 31, 2004, are excluded from the following table, as the underlying assets of the SPEs have been included on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets.
The Firm also has exposure to certain SPEs arising from derivative transactions; these transactions are recorded at fair value on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets with changes in fair value (i.e., MTM gains and losses) recorded in Trading revenue. Such MTM gains and losses are not included in the revenue amounts reported in the table below.
The following table summarizes certain revenue information related to variable interest entities ("VIEs") with which the Firm has significant involvement, and qualifying SPEs ("QSPEs"). The revenue reported in the table below primarily represents servicing and custodial fee income. For a further discussion of VIEs and QSPEs, see Note 1, Note 13 and Note 14, on pages 91, 108-111 and 111-113, respectively, of this Annual Report.
 
Revenue from VIEs and QSPEs
Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment or the Firm fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and the counterparty subsequently fails to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees expire without a default occurring or without being drawn. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm's view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. Further, certain commitments, primarily related to consumer financings, are cancelable, upon notice, at the option of the Firm. For a further discussion of lending-related commitments and guarantees and the Firm's accounting for them, see Credit risk management on pages 63-72 and Note 27 on pages 124-125 of this Annual Report.
Contractual cash obligations
In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Commitments for future cash expenditures primarily include contracts to purchase future services and capital expenditures related to real estate-related obligations and equipment.
The accompanying table summarizes, by remaining maturity, JPMorgan Chase's off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and significant contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2005. Contractual purchases and capital expenditures in the table below reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. Excluded from the following table are a number of obligations to be settled in cash, primarily in under one year. These obligations are reflected on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets and include Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements; Other borrowed funds; purchases of Debt and equity instruments; Derivative payables; and certain purchases of instruments that resulted in settlement failures. For a discussion regarding Long-term debt and trust preferred capital securities, see Note 17 on pages 117-118 of this Annual Report. For a discussion regarding operating leases, see Note 25 on page 122 of this Annual Report.
Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Risk management
Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase's business activities. The Firm's risk management framework and governance structure is intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoing management of the major risks inherent in its business activities.
The Firm's ability to properly identify, measure, monitor and report risk is critical to both soundness and profitability.
Risk governance
The Firm's risk governance structure is built upon the premise that each line of business is responsible for managing the risks inherent in its business activity. There are eight major risk types identified in the business activities of the Firm: liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and reputation risk, fiduciary risk and private equity risk. As part of the risk management structure, each line of business has a Risk Committee responsible for decisions relating to risk strategy, policies and control. Where appropriate, the Risk Committees escalate risk issues to the Firm's Operating Committee, comprised of senior officers of the Firm, or to the Risk Working Group, a subgroup of the Operating Committee.
Overlaying risk management within the lines of business are three corporate functions: Treasury, Risk Management and Office of the General Counsel. Treasury is responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the interest rate and liquidity risk profile of the Firm. Risk Management, under the direction of the Chief Risk Officer reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, provides an independent firmwide function of control and management of risk. Within Risk Management are those units responsible for credit risk, market risk, operational risk, private equity risk and risk technology and operations, as well as Risk Management Services, which is responsible for risk policy and methodology, risk reporting and risk education. The Office of the General Counsel has oversight function for legal, reputation and fiduciary risk.
In addition to the six lines of business risk committees and these corporate functions, the Firm maintains an Asset & Liability Committee ("ALCO"), which oversees interest rate and liquidity risk, and capital management, as well as the Firm's funds transfer pricing policy, through which lines of business transfer interest rate risk to Treasury. Treasury has responsibility for ALCO policies and control and transfers aggregate risk positions to the Chief Investment Office, which has responsibility for managing the risk. There is also an Investment Committee, which reviews key aspects of the Firm's global M&A activities that are undertaken for its own investment account and that fall outside the scope of the Firm's private equity and other principal finance activities.
The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of risk management as a whole and through the Board's Risk Policy Committee and Audit Committee.
The Risk Policy Committee is responsible for oversight of management's responsibilities to assess and manage the Firm's risks as described above.
 
The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of guidelines and policies that govern the process by which risk assessment and management is undertaken. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews with management the system of internal controls and financial reporting that is relied upon to provide reasonable assurance of compliance with the Firm's operational risk management processes. Both committees are responsible for oversight of reputation risk. The Chief Risk Officer and other management report on the risks of the Firm to the Board of Directors, particularly through the Board's Risk Policy Committee and Audit Committee. The major risk types identified by the Firm are discussed in the following sections.
Liquidity risk management
Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of the Firm's activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities. JPMorgan Chase's liquidity management framework is intended to maximize liquidity access and minimize funding costs. Through active liquidity management, the Firm seeks to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of funding. This enables the Firm to replace maturing obligations when due and fund assets at appropriate maturities and rates. To accomplish this task, management uses a variety of liquidity risk measures that take into consideration market conditions, prevailing interest rates, liquidity needs and the desired maturity profile of liabilities.
Governance
The Asset & Liability Committee ("ALCO") reviews the Firm's overall liquidity policy and oversees the contingency funding plan. The ALCO also provides oversight of the Firm's exposure to SPEs, with particular focus on the potential liquidity support requirements that the Firm may have to those SPEs.
Treasury is responsible for formulating the Firm's liquidity strategy and targets, understanding the Firm's on- and off-balance sheet liquidity obligations, providing policy guidance, overseeing policy adherence, and maintaining contingency planning and stress testing. In addition, it identifies and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals to permit early detection of liquidity issues.
An extension of the Firm's ongoing liquidity management is its contingency funding plan. The goals of the plan are to ensure maintenance of appropriate liquidity during normal and stress periods, measure and project funding requirements during periods of stress, and manage access to funding sources. The plan considers temporary and long-term stress scenarios where access to unsecured funding is severely limited or nonexistent. The plan forecasts potential funding needs, taking into account both on- and off-balance sheet exposures, separately evaluating access to funds by the parent holding company and JPMorgan Chase Bank.
The Firm's liquidity risk framework also incorporates tools to monitor three primary measures of liquidity:
Each liquidity position is managed to provide sufficient surplus.
Risk monitoring and reporting
Treasury is responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the liquidity profile of the Firm through both normal and stress periods. Treasury analyzes the diversity and maturity structure of the Firm's sources of funding; and assesses downgrade impact scenarios, contingent funding needs, and overall collateral availability and pledging status. A downgrade analysis considers the impact of both parent and bank level downgrades (one- and two-notch) and calculates the loss of funding and increase in annual funding costs for both scenarios. A trigger-risk funding analysis considers the impact of a bank level downgrade through A-1/P-1 as well as the increased contingent funding requirements that would be triggered. These liquidity analytics rely on management's judgment about JPMorgan Chase's ability to liquidate assets or use them as collateral for borrowings and take into account credit risk management's historical data on the funding of loan commitments (e.g., commercial paper back-up facilities), liquidity commitments to SPEs, commitments with rating triggers and collateral posting requirements. For a further discussion of SPEs and other off-balance sheet arrangements, see Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations on pages 5859, as well as Note 1, Note 13, Note 14 and Note 27 on pages 91, 108111, 111113, and 124125, respectively, of this Annual Report.
Funding
Sources of funds
Consistent with its liquidity management policy, the Firm has raised funds at the parent holding company sufficient to cover its obligations and those of its nonbank subsidiaries that mature over the next 12 months. Long-term funding needs for the parent holding company over the next several quarters are expected to be consistent with prior periods.
As of December 31, 2005, the Firm's liquidity position remained strong based upon its liquidity metrics. JPMorgan Chase's long-dated funding, including core deposits, exceeds illiquid assets, and the Firm believes its obligations can be met even if access to funding is impaired.
The diversity of the Firm's funding sources enhances financial flexibility and limits dependence on any one source, thereby minimizing the cost of funds. The deposits held by the RFS, CB and TSS lines of business are a stable and consistent source of funding for JPMorgan Chase Bank. As of December 31, 2005, total deposits for the Firm were $555 billion, which represented 67% of the Firm's funding liabilities. A significant portion of the Firm's retail deposits are "core" deposits, which are less sensitive to interest rate changes and therefore are considered more stable than market-based deposits. Core
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
deposits include all U.S. deposits insured by the FDIC, up to the legal limit of $100,000 per depositor. In 2005, core bank deposits increased approximately 8% from 2004 year-end. In addition to core retail deposits, the Firm benefits from substantial, geographically diverse corporate liability balances originated by TSS and CB through the normal course of business. These franchise-generated core liability balances are also a stable and consistent source of funding due to the nature of the businesses from which they are generated. For a further discussion of deposit and liability balance trends, see Business Segment Results and Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 34-35 and 55, respectively, of this Annual Report.
Additional sources of funds include a variety of both short- and long-term instruments, including federal funds purchased, commercial paper, bank notes, medium- and long-term debt, and capital debt securities. This funding is managed centrally, using regional expertise and local market access, to ensure active participation in the global financial markets while maintaining consistent global pricing. These markets serve as a cost-effective and diversified source of funds and are a critical component of the Firm's liquidity management. Decisions concerning the timing and tenor of accessing these markets are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
Finally, funding flexibility is provided by the Firm's ability to access the repo and asset securitization markets. These markets are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriate balance of secured and unsecured funding. The ability to securitize loans, and the associated gains on those securitizations, are principally dependent upon the credit quality and yields of the assets securitized and are generally not dependent upon the credit ratings of the issuing entity. Transactions between the Firm and its securitization structures are reflected in JPMorgan Chase's consolidated financial statements; these relationships include retained interests in securitization trusts, liquidity facilities and derivative transactions. For further details, see Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations and Notes 13 and 27 on pages 58-59, 108-111 and 124-125, respectively, of this Annual Report.
Issuance
Corporate credit spreads widened modestly in 2005 across most industries and sectors. On an historical basis, credit spreads remain near historic tight levels as corporate balance sheet cash positions are strong and corporate profits generally healthy. JPMorgan Chase's credit spreads performed in line with peer spreads in 2005.
Continued strong foreign investor participation in the global corporate markets allowed JPMorgan Chase to identify attractive opportunities globally to further diversify its funding and capital sources while lengthening maturities. During 2005, JPMorgan Chase issued approximately $43.7 billion of long-term debt and capital debt securities. These issuances were offset partially by $26.9 billion of long-term debt and capital debt securities that matured or were redeemed and the Firm's redemption of $200 million of preferred stock. In addition, in 2005 the Firm securitized approximately $18.1 billion of residential mortgage loans, $15.1 billion of credit card loans and $3.8 billion of automobile loans, resulting in pre-tax gains on securitizations of $21 million, $101 million and $9 million, respectively. For a further discussion of loan securitizations, see Note 13 on pages 108-111 of this Annual Report.
Credit ratings
The credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase's parent holding company and each of its significant banking subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows:
The Firm's principal insurance subsidiaries had the following financial strength ratings as of December 31, 2005:
The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by credit ratings. A reduction in these ratings could adversely affect the Firm's access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend. Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources and strong liquidity monitoring procedures.
If the Firm's ratings were downgraded by one notch, the Firm estimates the incremental cost of funds and the potential loss of funding to be negligible. Additionally, the Firm estimates the additional funding requirements for VIEs and other third-party commitments would not be material. In the current environment, the Firm believes a downgrade is unlikely. For additional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives and collateral agreements, see Special-purpose entities on pages 58-59 and Ratings profile of derivative receivables mark-to- market ("MTM") on page 69, of this Annual Report.
 
Credit risk management
Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. The Firm provides credit to customers of all sizes, from large corporate clients to loans for the individual consumer. The Firm manages the risk/reward relationship of each portfolio and discourages the retention of loan assets that do not generate a positive return above the cost of risk-adjusted capital. The majority of the Firm's wholesale loan originations (primarily to IB clients) continues to be distributed into the marketplace, with residual holds by the Firm averaging less than 10%. Wholesale loans generated by CB and AWM are generally retained on the balance sheet. With regard to the prime consumer credit market, the Firm focuses on creating a portfolio that is diversified from both a product and a geographical perspective. Within the prime mortgage business, originated loans are retained on the balance sheet as well as selectively sold to government agencies; the latter category is routinely classified as held-for-sale.
Credit risk organization
Credit risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer, a member of the Firm's Operating Committee. The Firm's credit risk management governance structure consists of the following primary functions:
Risk identification
The Firm is exposed to credit risk through lending (e.g., loans and lending-related commitments), derivatives trading and capital markets activities. The credit risk function works in partnership with the business segments in identifying and aggregating exposure across all lines of business.
Risk measurement
To measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default. Losses generated by consumer loans are more predictable than wholesale losses, but are subject to cyclical and seasonal factors. Although the frequency of loss is higher on consumer loans than on wholesale loans, the severity of loss is typically lower and more manageable. As a result of these differences, methodologies vary depending on certain factors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer installment versus wholesale loan), risk measurement parameters (e.g., delinquency status and credit bureau score versus wholesale risk rating) and risk management and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center versus centrally managed workout groups). Credit risk measurement is based upon the amount of exposure should the obligor or the counterparty default, the probability of default and the loss severity given a default event. Based upon these factors and related market-based inputs, the Firm estimates both probable and unexpected losses for the wholesale and consumer portfolios. Probable losses, reflected in the Provision for credit losses, are generally statistically-based estimates of credit losses over time, anticipated as a result of obligor or counterparty default. However, probable losses are not the sole indicators of risk. If losses were entirely predictable, the probable loss rate could be factored into pricing and covered as a normal and recurring cost of doing business. Unexpected losses, reflected in the allocation of credit risk capital, represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the probable level of losses. (Refer to Capital management on pages 56-58 of this Annual Report for a further discussion of the credit risk capital methodology.) Risk measurement for the wholesale portfolio is assessed primarily on a risk-rated basis; for the consumer portfolio, it is assessed primarily on a credit-scored basis.
Risk-rated exposure
For portfolios that are risk-rated, probable and unexpected loss calculations are based upon estimates of probability of default and loss given default. Probability of default is expected default calculated on an obligor basis. Loss given default is an estimate of losses that are based upon collateral and structural support for each credit facility. Calculations and assumptions are based upon management information systems and methodologies which are under continual review. Risk ratings are assigned and reviewed on an ongoing basis by Credit Risk Management and revised, if needed, to reflect the borrowers' current risk profiles and the related collateral and structural positions.
Credit-scored exposure
For credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS and CS), probable loss is based upon a statistical analysis of inherent losses over discrete periods of time. Probable losses are estimated using sophisticated portfolio modeling, credit scoring and decision-support tools to project credit risks and establish underwriting standards. In addition, common measures of credit quality derived from historical loss experience are used to predict consumer losses. Other risk characteristics evaluated include recent loss experience in the portfolios, changes in origination sources, portfolio seasoning, loss severity and underlying credit practices, including charge-off policies. These analyses are applied to the Firm's current portfolios in order to forecast delinquencies and severity of losses, which determine the amount of probable losses. These factors and analyses are updated on a quarterly basis.
Risk monitoring
The Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve the independence and integrity of decision-making and ensure credit risks are accurately assessed, properly approved, continually monitored and actively managed at both the transaction and portfolio levels. The policy framework establishes credit approval authorities, concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies, portfolio-review parameters and problem-loan management. Wholesale credit risk is continually monitored on both an aggregate portfolio level and on an individual customer basis. For consumer credit risk, the key focus items are trends and concentrations at the portfolio level, where potential problems can be remedied through changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. Consumer Credit Risk Management monitors trends against business expectations and industry benchmarks. In order to meet credit risk management objectives, the Firm seeks to maintain a risk profile that is diverse in terms of borrower, product type, industry and geographic concentration. Additional diversification of the Firm's exposure is accomplished through loan syndication and participations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives and other risk-reduction techniques.
Risk reporting
To enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making, aggregate credit exposure, credit metric forecasts, hold-limit exceptions and risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior credit risk management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer and geographic concentrations occurs monthly, and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by senior management at least on a quarterly basis. Through the risk reporting and governance structure, credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided regularly to, and discussed with, the Operating Committee.
2005 Credit risk overview
The wholesale portfolio experienced continued credit strength during 2005. Wholesale nonperforming loans were down by $582 million, or 37%, from 2004; net recoveries were $77 million compared with net charge-offs of
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
$186 million in 2004; and the allowance for credit losses decreased by $740 million, or 21%, reflecting the quality of the portfolio at this time. The Firm anticipates a return to more normal provisioning for credit losses for the wholesale portfolio in 2006. In 2005, the Firm also made significant strides in the multi-year initiative to reengineer specific components of the wholesale credit risk infrastructure. The Firm is on target to meet the goals of enhancing the timeliness and accuracy of risk and exposure information and reporting; management of credit risk in the retained portfolio; support of client relationships; allocation of economic capital and compliance with Basel II initiatives.
Consumer credit was impacted in 2005 by two significant events, Hurricane Katrina and federal bankruptcy reform legislation. Hurricane Katrina impacted customers across all consumer businesses (and to a lesser extent CB and AWM). As a result, the consumer Allowance for loan losses was increased by $350 million ($250 million in RFS, and $100 million in CS). It is anticipated that the majority of charge-offs associated with the hurricane will be taken against the allowance in 2006. Bankruptcy reform legislation became effective on October 17, 2005. This legislation prompted a "rush to file" effect that resulted in a spike in bankruptcy filings and increased credit losses, predominantly in CS, where it is believed that $575 million in estimated bankruptcy legislation-related credit losses occurred in the fourth quarter of 2005. It is anticipated that the first half of 2006 will experience lower credit card net charge-offs, as the record levels of bankruptcy filings in the 2005 fourth quarter are believed to have included bankruptcy filings that would have occurred in 2006. With the exception of the events noted above, the 2005 underlying credit performance, which was driven by favorable loss severity performance in residential real estate, continued to be strong. CS continues to quantify and refine the impact associated with changes in the FFIEC minimum-payment requirements. Actual implementation of the new payment requirements began in late 2005 and will run through early 2006; CS anticipates higher net charge-offs during the second half of 2006 as a result.
In 2005, the Firm continued to grow the consumer loan portfolio, focusing on businesses providing the most appropriate risk/reward relationship while keeping within the Firm's desired risk tolerance. During the past year, the Firm continued a de-emphasis of vehicle leasing and sold its $2 billion recreational vehicle portfolio. Continued growth in most core consumer lending products (residential real estate, credit cards and small business) reflected a focus on the prime credit quality segment of the market.
Credit portfolio
The following table presents JPMorgan Chase's credit portfolio as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. Total credit exposure at December 31, 2005, increased by $67 billion from December 31, 2004, reflecting an increase of $11 billion in the wholesale credit portfolio and $56 billion in the consumer credit portfolio. The significant majority of the consumer portfolio increase, or $54 billion, was primarily from growth in lending-related commitments. In the table below, reported loans include all HFS loans, which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value with changes in value recorded in Other income. However, these HFS loans are excluded from the average loan balances used for the net charge-off rate calculations.
Total credit portfolio
 
Wholesale credit portfolio
As of December 31, 2005, wholesale exposure (IB, CB, TSS and AWM) increased by $11 billion from December 31, 2004. Increases in Loans and lending-related commitments were offset partially by reductions in Derivative receivables and Interests in purchased receivables. As described on pages 36-37 of this Annual Report, the increase in Loans was primarily in the IB, reflecting an increase in loans held-for-sale related to securitization and syndication activities and growth in the IB credit portfolio. The increase in lending-related commitments was mostly due to CB activity. The decrease in Derivative receivables was due primarily to the appreciation of the U.S. dollar and higher interest rates, partially offset by rising commodity prices.
Wholesale
Below are summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale portfolio as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. The ratings scale is based upon the Firm's internal risk ratings and is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis.
Wholesale exposure
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
At December 31, 2005, the percentage of the investment-grade wholesale exposure, excluding HFS, remained relatively unchanged from December 31, 2004. Derivative receivables of less than one year decreased as a result of the appreciation of the U.S. dollar on short-dated foreign exchange ("FX") contracts. The percentage of derivative exposure greater than 5 years increased from 42% to 56% at year-end 2005, primarily as a result of the reduction in shorter-dated exposure.
Wholesale credit exposure  selected industry concentration
The Firm continues to focus on the management and diversification of industry concentrations, with particular attention paid to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. As of December 31, 2005, the top 10 industries remained predominantly unchanged from year-end 2004, with the exception of Oil and gas, which replaced Media. Below are summaries of the top 10 industry concentrations as of December 31, 2005 and 2004.
 
Wholesale criticized exposure
Exposures deemed criticized generally represent a ratings profile similar to a rating of CCC+/Caa1 and lower, as defined by Standard & Poor's/Moody's. The criticized component of the portfolio decreased to $5.2 billion (excluding HFS) at December 31, 2005, from $8.3 billion at year-end 2004, reflecting strong credit quality, refinancings and gross charge-offs. Also contributing to the decline was a refinement in methodology in the first quarter of 2005 to align the ratings methodologies of the heritage firms.
At December 31, 2005, Automotive, Telecom services and Retail and consumer services moved into the top 10 of wholesale criticized exposure, replacing Chemicals/plastics, Business services and Metals/mining industries.
Wholesale nonperforming assets
Wholesale nonperforming assets (excluding purchased held-for-sale wholesale loans) decreased by $779 million from $1.8 billion at December 31, 2004, as a result of loan sales, repayments and gross charge-offs. For full year 2005, wholesale net recoveries were $77 million compared with net charge-offs of $186 million in 2004, primarily due to lower gross charge-offs. The net recovery rate for full year 2005 was 0.06% compared with a net charge-off rate of 0.18% for the prior year. Net charge-offs do not include $67 million of gains from sales of nonperforming loans that were sold during 2005 to a counter-party other than the original borrower. When it is determined that a loan will be sold it is transferred into a held-for-sale account. Held-for-sale loans are accounted for at lower of cost or fair value, with changes in value recorded in other revenue.
Wholesale criticized exposure  industry concentrations
Wholesale selected industry discussion
Presented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm has significant exposure and which it continues to monitor because of actual or potential credit concerns. For additional information, refer to the tables above and on the preceding page.
Derivative contracts
In the normal course of business, the Firm utilizes derivative instruments to meet the needs of customers, to generate revenues through trading activities, to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, currencies and other markets and to manage its own credit risk. The Firm uses the same credit risk management procedures as those used for its traditional lending activities to assess and approve potential credit exposures when entering into derivative transactions.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts and the reported derivative receivables (i.e., the MTM or fair value of the derivative contracts after taking into account the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements) at each of the dates indicated:
Notional amounts and derivative receivables marked to market ("MTM")
The MTM of derivative receivables contracts represents the cost to replace the contracts at current market rates should the counterparty default. When JPMorgan Chase has more than one transaction outstanding with a counter-party, and a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists with that counterparty, the netted MTM exposure, less collateral held, represents, in the Firm's view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk.
While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net MTM value of the derivative receivables does not capture the potential future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potential future variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client basis, three measures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent ("DRE") and Average exposure ("AVG"). These measures all incorporate netting and collateral benefits, where applicable.
Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure calculated at a 97.5% confidence level. However, the total potential future credit risk embedded in the Firm's derivatives portfolio is not the simple sum of all Peak client credit risks. This is because, at the portfolio level, credit risk is reduced by the fact that when offsetting transactions are done with separate counter-parties, only one of the two trades can generate a credit loss, even if both counterparties were to default simultaneously. The Firm refers to this effect as market diversification, and the Market-Diversified Peak ("MDP") measure is a portfolio aggregation of counterparty Peak measures, representing the maximum losses at the 97.5% confidence level that would occur if all coun-terparties defaulted under any one given market scenario and time frame.
Derivative Risk Equivalent ("DRE") exposure is a measure that expresses the riskiness of derivative exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the riskiness of loan exposures. The measurement is done by equating the unexpected loss in a derivative counterparty exposure (which takes into consideration both the loss volatility and the credit rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in a loan exposure (which takes into consideration only the credit rating of the counterparty). DRE is a less extreme measure of potential credit loss than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit approval of derivative transactions.
Finally, Average exposure ("AVG") is a measure of the expected MTM value of the Firm's derivative receivables at future time periods, including the benefit of collateral. AVG exposure over the total life of the derivative contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculate credit capital and the Credit Valuation Adjustment ("CVA"), as further described below. Average exposure was $36 billion and $38 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, compared with derivative receivables MTM net of other highly liquid collateral of $44 billion and $57 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The graph below shows exposure profiles to derivatives over the next 10 years as calculated by the MDP, DRE and AVG metrics. All three measures generally show declining exposure after the first year, if no new trades were added to the portfolio.
October 31, 2005 (In million)
Exposure profile of derivetives measures
 
The MTM value of the Firm's derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, to reflect the credit quality of counterparties. The CVA is based upon the Firm's AVG exposure to a counterparty and the counterparty's credit spread in the credit derivatives market. The primary components of changes in CVA are credit spreads, new deal activity or unwinds, and changes in the underlying market environment. The Firm believes that active risk management is essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio. The Firm risk manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity derivative transactions. The MTM value of the Firm's derivative payables does not incorporate a valuation adjustment to reflect JPMorgan Chase's credit quality.
The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets Derivative receivables MTM, net of cash and other liquid securities collateral, for the dates indicated:
Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM
Rating equivalent
The Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk in derivatives. The percentage of the Firm's derivatives transactions subject to collateral agreements increased slightly, to 81% as of December 31, 2005, from 79% at December 31, 2004. The Firm posted $27 billion and $31 billion of collateral as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Certain derivative and collateral agreements include provisions that require the counterparty and/or the Firm, upon specified downgrades in their respective credit ratings, to post collateral for the benefit of the other party. As of December 31, 2005, the impact of a single-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, from its current rating of AA- to A+, would have been an additional $1.4 billion of collateral posted by the Firm; the impact of a six-notch ratings downgrade (from AA- to BBB-) would have been $3.8 billion of additional collateral. Certain derivative contracts also provide for termination of the contract, generally upon a downgrade of either the Firm or the counterparty, at the then-existing MTM value of the derivative contracts.
Credit derivatives
The following table presents the Firm's notional amounts of credit derivatives protection purchased and sold by the respective businesses as of December 31, 2005 and 2004:
Credit derivatives positions
In managing wholesale credit exposure, the Firm purchases single-name and portfolio credit derivatives; this activity does not reduce the reported level of assets on the balance sheet or the level of reported off-balance sheet commitments. The Firm also diversifies exposures by providing (i.e., selling) credit protection, which increases exposure to industries or clients where the Firm has little or no client-related exposure. This activity is not material to the Firm's overall credit exposure.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase has limited counterparty exposure as a result of credit derivatives transactions. Of the $50 billion of total Derivative receivables at December 31, 2005, approximately $4 billion, or 8%, was associated with credit derivatives, before the benefit of liquid securities collateral.
Dealer/client
At December 31, 2005, the total notional amount of protection purchased and sold in the dealer/client business increased $1.2 trillion from year-end 2004 as a result of increased trade volume in the market. This business has a mismatch between the total notional amounts of protection purchased and sold. However, in the Firm's view, the risk positions are largely matched when securities used to risk manage certain derivative positions are taken into consideration and the notional amounts are adjusted to a duration-based equivalent basis or to reflect different degrees of subordination in tranched structures.
Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives
Credit portfolio management activities
The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for portfolio management activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, and therefore, effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 is not performed. These derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains and losses recognized as Trading revenue. The MTM value incorporates both the cost of credit derivative premiums and changes in value due to movement in spreads and credit events; in contrast, the loans and lending-related commitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. Loan interest and fees are generally recognized in Net interest income, and impairment is recognized in the Provision for credit losses. This asymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans and lending-related commitments and the credit derivatives utilized in portfolio management activities, causes earnings volatility that is not representative, in the Firm's view, of the true changes in value of the Firm's overall credit exposure. The MTM related to the Firm's credit derivatives used for managing credit exposure, as well as the mark related to the CVA, which reflects the credit quality of derivatives counterparty exposure, are included in the table below:
The Firm also actively manages wholesale credit exposure through loan and commitment sales. During 2005 and 2004, the Firm sold $4.0 billion and $5.9 billion of loans and commitments, respectively, recognizing gains of $76 million and losses of $8 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. These activities are not related to the Firm's securitization activities, which are undertaken for liquidity and balance sheet management purposes. For a further discussion of securitization activity, see Note 13 on pages 108-111 of this Annual Report.
Lending-related commitments
The contractual amount of wholesale lending-related commitments was $324 billion at December 31, 2005, compared with $309 billion at December 31, 2004. In the Firm's view, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not representative of the Firm's actual credit risk exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments, which is used as the basis for allocating credit risk capital to these instruments, the Firm has established a "loan-equivalent" amount for each commitment; this amount represents the portion of the unused commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected, based upon average portfolio historical experience, to become outstanding in the event of a default by an obligor. The loan equivalent amount of the Firm's lending-related commitments as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, was $178 billion and $162 billion, respectively.
Country exposure
The Firm has a comprehensive process for measuring and managing exposures and risk in emerging markets countries  defined as those countries potentially vulnerable to sovereign events. Exposures to a country include all credit-related lending, trading, and investment activities, whether cross-border or locally funded. Exposure amounts are adjusted for credit enhancements (e.g., guarantees and letters of credit) provided by third parties located outside the country, if the enhancements fully cover the country risk as well as the business risk. As of December 31, 2005, the Firm's exposure to any individual emerging markets country was not material.
 
Consumer credit portfolio
JPMorgan Chase's consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential mortgages and home equity loans, credit cards, auto and education financings and loans to small businesses. The domestic consumer portfolio reflects the benefit of diversification from both a product and a geographical perspective. The primary focus is on serving the prime consumer credit market.
The following table presents managed consumer credit-related information for the dates indicated:
Consumer portfolio
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Total managed consumer loans at December 31, 2005, were $340 billion, up from $338 billion at year-end 2004. Consumer lending-related commitments increased by 9% to $656 billion at December 31, 2005, reflecting growth in credit cards and home equity lines of credit. The following discussion relates to the specific loan and lending-related categories within the consumer portfolio.
Retail Financial Services
Average RFS loan balances for 2005 were $198 billion. New loans originated in 2005 reflect high credit quality consistent with management's focus on the prime credit market segment. The net charge-off rate for retail loans in 2005 was 0.31%, a decrease of 36 basis points from 2004. This decrease was attributable primarily to $406 million of charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 2004 associated with the sale of the $4.0 billion manufactured home loan portfolio. Excluding these charge-offs, the net charge-off rate would have improved eight basis points.
Home finance loans on the balance sheet at December 31, 2005, were $133 billion. This amount consisted of $77 billion of home equity and other loans and $56 billion of mortgages, including mortgage loans held-for-sale. Home finance receivables as of December 31, 2005, reflect an increase of $9 billion from year-end 2004 driven by growth in the home equity portfolio. Home Finance provides consumer real estate lending to the full spectrum of credit borrowers, including $15 billion in sub-prime credits at December 31, 2005. Home Finance does not offer mortgage products that result in negative amortization but does offer mortgages with interest-only payment options to predominantly prime borrowers.
Home Finance:
The geographic distribution of outstanding consumer real estate loans is well diversified as shown in the table below.
Consumer real estate loan portfolio by geographic location
As of December 31, 2005, Auto & education finance loans decreased to $49 billion from $63 billion at year-end 2004. The decrease in outstanding loans was caused primarily by a difficult auto lending market in 2005, $3.8 billion in securitizations, the sale of the $2.0 billion recreational vehicle portfolio and the de-emphasis of vehicle leasing, which comprised $4.4 billion of outstanding loans as of December 31, 2005. It is anticipated that over time vehicle leases will account for a smaller share of balance sheet receivables and exposure. The Auto & Education loan portfolio reflects a high concentration of prime quality credits.
Auto & Education Finance:
As of December 31, 2005, Small business & other consumer loans remained relatively stable at $14.8 billion compared with 2004 year-end levels of $15.1 billion. The portfolio reflects highly collateralized loans, often with personal loan guarantees.
Consumer & Small Business and other:
Card Services
JPMorgan Chase analyzes the credit card portfolio on a managed basis, which includes credit card receivables on the consolidated balance sheet and those receivables sold to investors through securitization. Managed credit card receivables were $142 billion at December 31, 2005, an increase of $7 billion from year-end 2004, reflecting solid growth in the business as well as the addition of $2.2 billion of receivables as a result of the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business.
Consumer credit quality trends remained stable despite the effects of increased losses due to bankruptcy legislation, which became effective October 17, 2005. The managed credit card net charge-off rate decreased to 5.21% in 2005 from 5.27% in 2004. The 30-day delinquency rates declined significantly to 2.79% in 2005 from 3.70% in 2004, primarily driven by accelerated loss recognition of delinquent accounts as a result of the bankruptcy reform legislation and strong underlying credit quality. The managed credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned portfolio that has good U.S. geographic diversification.
 
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses is intended to cover probable credit losses, including losses where the asset is not specifically identified or the size of the loss has not been fully determined. At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer of the Firm, the Risk Policy Committee, a subgroup of the Operating Committee, and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Firm. The allowance is reviewed relative to the risk profile of the Firm's credit portfolio and current economic conditions and is adjusted if, in management's judgment, changes are warranted. The allowance includes an asset-specific component and a formula-based component, the latter of which consists of a statistical calculation and adjustments to the statistical calculation. For further discussion of the components of the Allowance for credit losses, see Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm on page 81 and Note 12 on pages 107-108 of this Annual Report. At December 31, 2005, management deemed the allowance for credit losses to be sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio, including losses that are not specifically identified or for which the size of the loss has not yet been fully determined.
Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The reduction in the allowance for credit losses of $322 million from December 31, 2004, was driven primarily by continued credit strength in the wholesale businesses, partially offset by an increase in the consumer allowance as a result of the special provision taken in the third quarter of 2005 due to Hurricane Katrina.
Excluding held-for-sale loans, the allowance for loan losses represented 1.84% of loans at December 31, 2005, compared with 1.94% at December 31, 2004. The wholesale component of the allowance decreased to $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2005, from $3.1 billion at year-end 2004, due to strong credit quality across all wholesale businesses. Excluding the special provision for Hurricane Katrina, the consumer component of the allowance would have been $4.3 billion as of December 31, 2005, a slight increase from December 31, 2004.
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the Firm's process of extending credit, management also computes an asset-specific component and a formula-based component for wholesale lending-related commitments. These are computed using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loan portfolio, modified for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown. This allowance, which is reported in Other liabilities, was $400 million and $492 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Provision for credit losses
For a discussion of the reported Provision for credit losses, see page 29 of this Annual Report. The managed provision for credit losses reflects credit card securitizations. At December 31, 2005, securitized credit card outstandings were relatively flat compared with the prior year-end.
 
Market risk management
Market risk is the exposure to an adverse change in the market value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by a change in market prices or rates.
Market risk management
Market Risk Management ("MRM") is an independent corporate risk governance function that identifies, measures, monitors, and controls market risk. It seeks to facilitate efficient risk/return decisions and to reduce volatility in operating performance. It strives to make the Firm's market risk profile transparent to senior management, the Board of Directors and regulators. Market Risk Management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer, a member of the Firm's Operating Committee. MRM's governance structure consists of the following primary functions:
In addition, the Firm's business segments have valuation control functions that are responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the valuations of positions that expose the Firm to market risk. These groups report primarily into Finance.
Risk identification and classification
MRM works in partnership with the business segments to identify market risks throughout the Firm and to refine and monitor market risk policies and procedures. All business segments are responsible for comprehensive identification and verification of market risks within their units. Risk-taking businesses have functions that act independently from trading personnel and are responsible for verifying risk exposures that the business takes. In addition to providing independent oversight for market risk arising from the business segments, MRM also is responsible for identifying exposures which may not be large within individual business segments, but which may be large for the Firm in aggregate. Regular meetings are held between MRM and the heads of risk-taking businesses to discuss and decide on risk exposures in the context of the market environment and client flows.
Positions that expose the Firm to market risk can be classified into two categories: trading and nontrading risk. Trading risk includes positions that are held by the Firm as part of a business segment or unit whose main business strategy is to trade or make markets. Unrealized gains and losses in these positions are generally reported in trading revenue. Nontrading risk includes securities held for longer term investment, mortgage servicing rights, and securities and derivatives used to manage the Firm's asset/liability exposures. Unrealized gains and losses in these positions are generally not reported in Trading revenue.
Trading risk
Fixed income risk (which includes interest rate risk and credit spread risk) involves the potential decline in net income or financial condition due to adverse changes in market rates, whether arising from client activities or proprietary positions taken by the Firm.
Foreign exchange, equities and commodities risks involve the potential decline in net income to the Firm due to adverse changes in foreign exchange, equities or commodities markets, whether arising from client activities or proprietary positions taken by the Firm.
Nontrading risk
Nontrading risk arises from execution of the Firm's core business strategies, the delivery of products and services to its customers, and the discretionary positions the Firm undertakes to risk-manage exposures.
These exposures can result from a variety of factors, including differences in the timing among the maturity or repricing of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments. Changes in the level and shape of market interest rate curves also may create interest rate risk, since the repricing characteristics of the Firm's assets do not necessarily match those of its liabilities. The Firm also is exposed to basis risk, which is the difference in re-pricing characteristics of two floating rate indices, such as the prime rate and 3-month LIBOR. In addition, some of the Firm's products have embedded optionality that impact pricing and balances.
The Firm's mortgage banking activities also give rise to complex interest rate risks. The interest rate exposure from the Firm's mortgage banking activities is a result of changes in the level of interest rates, option and basis risk. Option risk arises primarily from prepayment options embedded in mortgages and changes in the probability of newly-originated mortgage commitments actually closing. Basis risk results from different relative movements between mortgage rates and other interest rates.
Risk measurement
Tools used to measure risk
Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, the Firm uses various metrics, both statistical and nonstatistical, including:
Nonstatistical risk measures
Nonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net open positions, basis point values, option sensitivities, market values, position concentrations and position turnover. These measures provide granular information on the Firm's market risk exposure. They are aggregated by line of business and by risk type, and are used for monitoring limits, one-off approvals and tactical control.
Value-at-risk
JPMorgan Chase's primary statistical risk measure, VAR, estimates the potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment and provides a consistent cross-business measure of risk profiles and levels of diversification. VAR is used for comparing risks across businesses, monitoring limits, one-off approvals, and as an input to economic capital calculations. VAR provides risk transparency in a normal trading environment.
Each business day the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VAR calculation that includes both its trading and its nontrading activities. VAR for nontrading activities measures the amount of potential change in fair value of the exposures related to these activities; however, VAR for such activities is not a measure of reported revenue since nontrading activities are generally not marked to market through earnings.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
To calculate VAR, the Firm uses historical simulation, which measures risk across instruments and portfolios in a consistent and comparable way. This approach assumes that historical changes in market values are representative of future changes. The simulation is based upon data for the previous twelve months. The Firm calculates VAR using a one-day time horizon and an expected tail loss methodology, which approximates a 99% confidence level. This means the Firm would expect to incur losses greater than that predicted by VAR estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about 2.5 times a year.
Trading VAR
IB trading VAR by risk type and credit portfolio VAR
(a)
IB's Average Total Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR decreased to $88 million during 2005 compared with $90 million for the same period in 2004. Period-end VAR increased over the same period to $108 million from $78 million. Commodities and other VAR increased due to the expansion of the energy trading business. The decrease in average Total Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR was driven by increased portfolio diversification as fixed income risk decreased and foreign exchange, equities and commodities risk increased. Trading VAR diversification increased to $59 million, or 41% of the sum of the components, from $43 million, or 34% of the sum of the components. The diversification effect between the trading portfolio and the credit portfolio also increased to $12 million, or 12% of the sum of the components, from $9 million, or 9% of the sum of the components. In general, over the course of the year, VAR exposures can vary significantly as trading positions change, market volatility fluctuates and diversification benefits change.
VAR backtesting
To evaluate the soundness of its VAR model, the Firm conducts daily backtesting of VAR against daily financial results, based upon market risk-related revenue. Market risk-related revenue is defined as the change in value of the mark-to-market trading portfolios plus any trading-related net interest income, brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or other revenue. The following histogram illustrates the daily market risk-related gains and losses for the IB trading businesses for the year ended December 31, 2005. The chart shows that the IB posted market risk-related gains on 208 out of 260 days in this period, with 20 days exceeding $100 million. The inset graph looks at those days on which the IB experienced losses and depicts the amount by which VAR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days. Losses were sustained on 52 days, with no loss greater than $90 million, and with no loss exceeding the VAR measure.
 
Loss advisories
Loss advisories are tools used to highlight to senior management trading losses above certain levels and are used to initiate discussion of remedies.
Economic value stress testing
While VAR reflects the risk of loss due to unlikely events in normal markets, stress testing captures the Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. The Firm conducts economic-value stress tests for both its trading and its nontrading activities using multiple scenarios for both types of activities. Periodically, scenarios are reviewed and updated to reflect changes in the Firm's risk profile and economic events. Stress testing is as important as VAR in measuring and controlling risk. Stress testing enhances the understanding of the Firm's risk profile and loss potential, and is used for monitoring limits, one-off approvals and cross-business risk measurement, as well as an input to economic capital allocation.
Based upon the Firm's stress scenarios, the stress test loss (pre-tax) in the IB's trading portfolio ranged from $469 million to $1.4 billion, and $202 million to $1.2 billion, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm's results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
Earnings-at-risk stress testing
The VAR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total economic sensitivity of the Firm's balance sheet to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate exposure on reported Net income also is critical. Interest rate risk exposure in the Firm's core nontrading business activities (i.e., asset/liability management positions) results from on- and off-balance sheet positions. The Firm conducts simulations of changes in NII from its nontrading activities under a variety of interest rate scenarios, which are consistent with the scenarios used for economic-value stress testing. Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change in the Firm's Net interest income over the next 12 months and highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors, such as the rates themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing strategies on deposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The tests include forecasted balance sheet changes, such as asset sales and securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior.
Earnings-at-risk also can result from changes in the slope of the yield curve, because the Firm has the ability to lend at fixed rates and borrow at variable or short-term fixed rates. Based upon these scenarios, the Firm's earnings would be affected negatively by a sudden and unanticipated increase in short-term rates without a corresponding increase in long-term rates. Conversely, higher long-term rates generally are beneficial to earnings, particularly when the increase is not accompanied by rising short-term rates.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk, and so a number of alternative scenarios also are reviewed. These scenarios include the implied forward curve, nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rate shocks on selected key rates. These scenarios are intended to provide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan Chase's earnings-at-risk over a wide range of outcomes.
JPMorgan Chase's 12-month pre-tax earnings sensitivity profile as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, follows:
The Firm's risk to rising and falling interest rates is due primarily to corresponding increases and decreases in short-term funding costs.
RIFLE
Individuals who manage risk positions, particularly those that are complex, are responsible for identifying potential losses that could arise from specific unusual events, such as a potential tax change, and estimating the probabilities of losses arising from such events. This information is entered into the Firm's RIFLE system and directed to the appropriate level of management, thereby permitting the Firm to identify further earnings vulnerability not adequately covered by standard risk measures.
Risk monitoring and control
Limits
Market risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits. Limits reflect the Firm's risk appetite in the context of the market environment and business strategy. In setting limits, the Firm takes into consideration factors such as market volatility, product liquidity, business track record and management experience.
MRM regularly reviews and updates risk limits, and senior management reviews and approves risk limits at least once a year. MRM further controls the Firm's exposure by specifically designating approved financial instruments and tenors, known as instrument authorities, for each business segment.
The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate-level limits include VAR, stress and loss advisories. Similarly, line of business limits include VAR, stress and loss advisories, and are supplemented by nonstatistical measurements and instrument authorities. Businesses are responsible for adhering to established limits, against which exposures are monitored and reported. Limit breaches are reported in a timely manner to senior management, and the affected business segment is required to take appropriate action to reduce trading positions. If the business cannot do this within an acceptable timeframe, senior management is consulted on the appropriate action.
Qualitative review
MRM also performs periodic reviews as necessary of both businesses and products with exposure to market risk in order to assess the ability of the businesses to control their market risk. Strategies, market conditions, product details and risk controls are reviewed, and specific recommendations for improvements are made to management.
Model review
Some of the Firm's financial instruments cannot be valued based upon quoted market prices but are instead valued using pricing models. Such models are used for management of risk positions, such as reporting against limits, as well as for valuation. The Model Risk Group, independent of the businesses and MRM, reviews the models the Firm uses and assesses model appropriateness and consistency. The model reviews consider a number of factors about the model's suitability for valuation and risk management of a particular product, including whether it accurately reflects the characteristics of the transaction and its significant risks, the suitability and convergence properties of numerical algorithms, reliability of data sources, consistency of the treatment with models for similar products, and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that cannot be priced from the market.
Reviews are conducted for new or changed models, as well as previously accepted models, to assess whether there have been any changes in the product or market that may impact the model's validity and whether there are theoretical or competitive developments that may require reassessment of the model's adequacy. For a summary of valuations based upon models, see Critical Accounting Estimates used by the Firm on pages 81-83 of this Annual Report.
Risk reporting
Nonstatistical exposures, value-at-risk, loss advisories and limit excesses are reported daily for each trading and nontrading business. Market risk exposure trends, value-at-risk trends, profit and loss changes, and portfolio concentrations are reported weekly. Stress test results are reported monthly to business and senior management.
 
Operational risk management
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or external events.
Overview
Operational risk is inherent in each of the Firm's businesses and support activities. Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways, including errors, business interruptions, inappropriate behavior of employees and vendors that do not perform in accordance with outsourcing arrangements. These events can potentially result in financial losses and other damage to the Firm, including reputational harm.
To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains a system of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to provide a sound and well-controlled operational environment. The goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, in light of the Firm's financial strength, the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, and the competitive and regulatory environment to which it is subject. Notwithstanding these control measures, the Firm incurs operational losses.
The Firm's approach to operational risk management is intended to mitigate such losses by supplementing traditional control-based approaches to operational risk with risk measures, tools and disciplines that are risk-specific, consistently applied and utilized firmwide. Key themes are transparency of information, escalation of key issues and accountability for issue resolution.
During 2005, the Firm substantially completed the implementation of Phoenix, a new internally-designed operational risk software tool. Phoenix integrates the individual components of the operational risk management framework into a unified, web-based tool. Phoenix is intended to enable the Firm to enhance its reporting and analysis of operational risk data by enabling risk identification, measurement, monitoring, reporting and analysis to be done in an integrated manner, thereby enabling efficiencies in the Firm's management of its operational risk.
For purposes of identification, monitoring, reporting and analysis, the Firm categorizes operational risk events as follows:
Risk identification and measurement
Risk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that management believes may give rise to operational losses.
In 2005, JPMorgan Chase substantially completed a multi-year effort to redesign the underlying architecture of its firmwide self-assessment process. The goal of the self-assessment process is for each business to identify the key operational risks specific to its environment and assess the degree to which it maintains appropriate controls. Action plans are developed for control issues identified, and businesses are held accountable for tracking and resolving these issues on a timely basis.
All businesses were required to perform self-assessments in 2005. Going forward, the Firm will utilize the self-assessment process as a dynamic risk management tool.
Risk monitoring
The Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data, permitting analysis of errors and losses as well as trends. Such analysis, performed both at a line of business level and by risk-event type, enables identification of the causes associated with risk events faced by the businesses. Where available, the internal data can be supplemented with external data for comparative analysis with industry patterns. The data reported will enable the Firm to back-test against self-assessment results.
Risk reporting and analysis
Operational risk management reports provide timely and accurate information, including information about actual operational loss levels and self-assessment results, to the lines of business and senior management. The purpose of these reports is to enable management to maintain operational risk at appropriate levels within each line of business, to escalate issues and to provide consistent data aggregation across the Firm's businesses and support areas.
Audit alignment
Internal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to provide an independent assessment of the design and effectiveness of key controls over the Firm's operations, regulatory compliance and reporting. Audit partners with business management and members of the control community in providing guidance on the operational risk framework and reviewing the effectiveness and accuracy of the business self-assessment process as part of its business unit audits.
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Reputation and fiduciary risk management
A firm's success depends not only on its prudent management of liquidity, credit, market and operational risks that are part of its business risks, but equally on the maintenance among many constituents  clients, investors, regulators, as well as the general public  of a reputation for business practices of the highest quality. Attention to reputation has always been a key aspect of the Firm's practices, and maintenance of reputation is the responsibility of everyone at the Firm. JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individual responsibility in many ways, including through the Firm's Code of Conduct, training, maintaining adherence to policies and procedures and oversight functions that approve transactions. These oversight functions include a Conflicts Office, which examines wholesale transactions with the potential to create conflicts of interest for the Firm.
Policy review office
The Firm also has a specific structure to address certain transactions with clients, especially complex derivatives and structured finance transactions, that have the potential to adversely affect its reputation. This structure reinforces the Firm's procedures for examining transactions in terms of appropriateness, ethical issues and reputational risk, and it intensifies the Firm's scrutiny of the purpose and effect of its transactions from the client's point of view, with the goal that these transactions are not used to mislead investors or others. The structure operates at three levels: as part of every business' transaction approval process; through review by regional Reputation Risk Committees; and through oversight by the Policy Review Office.
Primary responsibility for adherence to the policies and procedures designed to address reputation risk lies with the business units conducting the transactions in question. The Firm's transaction approval process requires review from, among others, internal legal/compliance, conflicts, tax and accounting groups. Transactions involving an SPE established by the Firm receive particular scrutiny intended to ensure that every such entity is properly approved, documented, monitored and controlled.
Business units are also required to submit to regional Reputation Risk Committees proposed transactions that may give rise to heightened reputation risk  particularly a client's motivation and its intended financial disclosure of the transaction. The committees may approve, reject or require further clarification on or changes to the transactions. The members of these committees are senior representatives of the business and support units in the region. The committees may escalate transaction review to the Policy Review Office.
The Policy Review Office is the most senior approval level for client transactions involving reputation risk issues. The mandate of the Office is to opine on specific transactions brought by the Regional Committees and consider changes in policies or practices relating to reputation risk. The head of the Office consults with the Firm's most senior executives on specific topics and provides regular updates. Aside from governance and guidance on specific transactions, the objective of the policy review process is to reinforce a culture, through a "case study" approach, that ensures that all employees, regardless of seniority, understand the basic principles of reputation risk control and can recognize and address issues as they arise.
In 2006, this structure, which until now has been focused primarily on Investment Bank activities, will be expanded to include the activities of Commercial Banking and the Private Bank. These lines of business will implement training and review procedures similar to those in the Investment Bank and their activities also will be subject to the oversight of the Policy Review Office.
Fiduciary risk management
The risk management committees within each line of business include in their mandate the oversight of the legal, reputational and, where appropriate, fiduciary risks in their businesses that may produce significant losses or reputational damage. The Fiduciary Risk Management function works with the relevant line of business risk committees to ensure that businesses providing investment or risk management products or services that give rise to fiduciary duties to clients perform at the appropriate standard relative to their fiduciary relationship with a client. Of particular focus are the policies and practices that address a business' responsibilities to a client, including client suitability determination, disclosure obligations, disclosure communications and performance expectations with respect to such of the investment and risk management products or services being provided by the Firm that give rise to such fiduciary duties. In this way, the relevant line-of-business risk committees, together with the Fiduciary Risk Management function, provide oversight of the Firm's efforts to monitor, measure and control the risks that may arise in the delivery of the products or services to clients that give rise to such duties, as well as those stemming from any of the Firm's fiduciary responsibilities to employees under the Firm's various employee benefit plans.
Private equity risk management
Risk management
The Firm makes direct principal investments in private equity. The illiquid nature and long-term holding period associated with these investments differentiates private equity risk from the risk of positions held in the trading portfolios. The Firm's approach to managing private equity risk is consistent with the Firm's general risk governance structure. Controls are in place establishing target levels for total and annual investment in order to control the overall size of the portfolio. Industry and geographic concentration limits are in place intended to ensure diversification of the portfolio, and periodic reviews are performed on the portfolio to substantiate the valuations of the investments. The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of private equity investments held by Private Equity. At December 31, 2005, the carrying value of the private equity portfolios of JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners businesses was $6.2 billion, of which $479 million represented positions traded in the public market.
 
Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm
JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment to ascertain the valuation of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established detailed policies and control procedures intended to ensure that valuation methods, including any judgments made as part of such methods, are well controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from period to period. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in a controlled and appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates for determining the valuation of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a brief description of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significant valuation judgments.
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses covers the wholesale and consumer loan portfolios as well as the Firm's portfolio of wholesale lending-related commitments. The Allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the value of the Firm's loan assets for probable credit losses as of the balance sheet date. For a further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing the Firm's Allowance for credit losses, see Note 12 on pages 107108 of this Annual Report.
Wholesale loans and lending-related commitments
The methodology for calculating both the Allowance for loan losses and the Allowance for lending-related commitments involves significant judgment. First and foremost, it involves the early identification of credits that are deteriorating. Second, it involves management judgment to derive loss factors. Third, it involves management judgment to evaluate certain macroeconomic factors, underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio and to refine loss factors to better reflect these conditions.
The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine the credit quality of its wholesale loans. Wholesale loans are reviewed for information affecting the obligor's ability to fulfill its obligations. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan, among the factors considered include the obligor's debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor's earnings, the amount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength, and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors are based upon an evaluation of historical and current information, and involve subjective assessment and interpretation. Emphasizing one factor over another, or considering additional factors that may be relevant in determining the risk rating of a particular loan but which are not currently an explicit part of the Firm's methodology, could impact the risk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.
Management applies its judgment to derive loss factors associated with each credit facility. These loss factors are determined by facility structure, collateral and type of obligor. Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent, verifiable data or the Firm's own historical loss experience in its models for estimating these loss factors. Many factors can affect management's estimates of loss, including volatility of loss given default, probability of default and rating migrations. Judgment is applied to determine whether the loss given default should be calculated as an average over the entire credit cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle. The application of different loss given default factors would change the amount of the Allowance for credit losses determined appropriate by the Firm. Similarly, there are judgments as to which external data on probability of default should be used and when they should be used. Choosing data that are not reflective of the Firm's specific loan portfolio characteristics could also affect loss estimates.
Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors derived, taking into consideration model imprecision, external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors. The resultant adjustments to the statistical calculation on the performing portfolio are determined by creating estimated ranges using historical experience of both loss given default and probability of default. Factors related to concentrated and deteriorating industries are also incorporated where relevant. The estimated ranges and the determination of the appropriate point within the range are based upon management's view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of underwriting standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio. The adjustment to the statistical calculation for the wholesale loan portfolio for the period ended December 31, 2005, was $621 million, the higher-end within the range, based upon management's assessment of current economic conditions.
Consumer loans
For scored loans in the consumer lines of business, loss is primarily determined by applying statistical loss factors and other risk indicators to pools of loans by asset type. These loss estimates are sensitive to changes in delinquency status, credit bureau scores, the realizable value of collateral and other risk factors.
Adjustments to the statistical calculation are accomplished in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment. Management analyzes the range of credit loss experienced for each major portfolio segment, taking into account economic cycles, portfolio seasoning and underwriting criteria, and then formulates a range that incorporates relevant risk factors that impact overall credit performance. The recorded adjustment to the statistical calculation for the period ended December 31, 2005, was $1.2 billion, based upon management's assessment of current economic conditions.
Fair value of financial instruments
A portion of JPMorgan Chase's assets and liabilities are carried at fair value, including trading assets and liabilities, AFS securities and private equity investments. Held-for-sale loans, mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs") and commodities inventory are carried at the lower of fair value or cost. At December 31, 2005, approximately $386 billion of the Firm's assets were recorded at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The majority of the Firm's assets reported at fair value are based upon quoted market prices or on internally developed models that utilize independently sourced market parameters, including interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted market prices or observable market parameters. For financial instruments that are actively traded and have quoted market prices or parameters readily available, there is little-to-no subjectivity in determining fair value. When observable market prices and parameters do not exist, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value. The valuation process takes into consideration
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
factors such as liquidity and concentration concerns and, for the derivatives portfolio, counterparty credit risk (see the discussion of CVA on page 70 of this Annual Report). For example, there is often limited market data to rely on when estimating the fair value of a large or aged position. Similarly, judgment must be applied in estimating prices for less readily observable external parameters. Finally, other factors such as model assumptions, market dislocations and unexpected correlations can affect estimates of fair value. Imprecision in estimating these factors can impact the amount of revenue or loss recorded for a particular position.
Trading and available-for-sale portfolios
Substantially all of the Firm's securities held for trading and investment purposes ("long" positions) and securities that the Firm has sold to other parties but does not own ("short" positions) are valued based upon quoted market prices. However, certain securities are less actively traded and, therefore, are not always able to be valued based upon quoted market prices. The determination of their fair value requires management judgment, as this determination may require benchmarking to similar instruments or analyzing default and recovery rates. Examples include certain collateralized mortgage and debt obligations and high-yield debt securities.
As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the majority of the Firm's derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis readily observable market parameters  that is, parameters that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources, including industry-pricing services. Certain derivatives, however, are valued based upon models with significant unobservable market parameters  that is, parameters that must be estimated and are, therefore, subject to management judgment to substantiate the model valuation. These instruments are normally either less actively traded or trade activity is one-way. Examples include long-dated interest rate or currency swaps, where swap rates may be unobservable for longer maturities, and certain credit products, where correlation and recovery rates are unobservable. Due to the lack of observable market data, the Firm defers the initial trading profit for these financial instruments. The deferred profit is recognized in Trading revenue on a systematic basis and when observable market data becomes available. Management's judgment also includes recording fair value adjustments (i.e., reductions) to model valuations to account for parameter uncertainty when valuing complex or less actively traded derivative transactions. The following table summarizes the Firm's trading and available-for-sale portfolios by valuation methodology at December 31, 2005:
To ensure that the valuations are appropriate, the Firm has various controls in place. These include: an independent review and approval of valuation models; detailed review and explanation for profit and loss analyzed daily and over time; decomposing the model valuations for certain structured derivative instruments into their components and benchmarking valuations, where possible, to similar products; and validating valuation estimates through actual cash settlement. As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain derivative products becomes more transparent, the Firm refines its valuation methodologies. The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area, a group independent of the risk-taking function, is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the valuations of positions taken within the Investment Bank.
For a discussion of market risk management, including the model review process, see Market risk management on pages 7578 of this Annual Report. For further details regarding the Firm's valuation methodologies, see Note 29 on pages 126128 of this Annual Report.
Loans held-for-sale
The fair value of loans in the held-for-sale portfolio is generally based upon observable market prices of similar instruments, including bonds, credit derivatives and loans with similar characteristics. If market prices are not available, fair value is based upon the estimated cash flows adjusted for credit risk that is discounted using a rate appropriate for each maturity that incorporates the effects of interest rate changes.
Commodities inventory
The majority of commodities inventory includes bullion and base metals where fair value is determined by reference to prices in highly active and liquid markets. The fair value of other commodities inventory is determined primarily using prices and data derived from less liquid and developing markets where the underlying commodities are traded.
Private equity investments
Valuation of private investments held primarily by the Private Equity business within Corporate requires significant management judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. Private investments are initially valued based upon cost. The carrying values of private investments are adjusted from cost to reflect both positive and negative changes evidenced by financing events with third-party capital providers. In addition, these investments are subject to ongoing impairment reviews by Private Equity's senior investment professionals. A variety of factors are reviewed and monitored to assess impairment including, but not limited to, operating performance and future expectations of the particular portfolio investment, industry valuations of comparable public companies, changes in market outlook and the third-party financing environment over time. The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of private investments held by Private Equity. For additional information about private equity investments,
 
see the Private equity risk management discussion on page 80 and Note 9 on pages 103105 of this Annual Report.
MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizations
MSRs and certain other retained interests from securitization activities do not trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices. For example, sales of MSRs do occur, but the precise terms and conditions are typically not readily available. Accordingly, the Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizations using discounted future cash flow (DCF) models.
For MSRs, the model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees and prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenues, costs to service and other economic factors. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company began utilizing an option adjusted spread ("OAS") valuation approach when determining the fair value of MSRs. This approach, when used in conjunction with the Firm's proprietary prepayment model, projects MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates, to estimate an expected fair value of the MSRs. The OAS valuation approach is expected to provide improved estimates of fair value. The initial valuation of MSRs under OAS did not have a material impact to the Firm's financial statements.
For certain other retained interests in securitizations (such as interest only strips), a single interest rate path DCF model is used and generally includes assumptions based upon projected finance charges related to the securitized assets, estimated net credit losses, prepayment assumptions, and contractual interest paid to the third-party investors. Changes in the assumptions used may have a significant impact on the Firm's valuation of retained interests.
For both MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizations, the Firm compares its fair value estimates and assumptions to observable market data where available and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience. Management believes that the assumptions used to estimate fair values are supportable and reasonable.
For a further discussion of the most significant assumptions used to value retained interests in securitizations and MSRs, as well as the applicable stress tests for those assumptions, see Notes 13 and 15 on pages 108111 and 114116, respectively, of this Annual Report.
Goodwill impairment
Under SFAS 142, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for impairment. The Firm tests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. Impairment testing is performed at the reporting-unit level (which is generally one level below the six major business segments identified in Note 31 on pages 130131 of this Annual Report, plus Private Equity which is included in Corporate). The first part of the test is a comparison, at the reporting unit level, of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, then the second part of the test is needed to measure the amount of potential goodwill impairment. The implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is calculated and compared to the carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the Firm's financial records. If the carrying value of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, then the Firm would recognize an impairment loss in the amount of the difference, which would be recorded as a charge against Net income.
The fair values of the reporting units are determined using discounted cash flow models based upon each reporting unit's internal forecasts. In addition, analysis using market-based trading and transaction multiples, where available, are used to assess the reasonableness of the valuations derived from the discounted cash flow models.
Goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2005 or 2004, nor was any goodwill written off due to impairment during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. See Note 15 on page 114 of this Annual Report for additional information related to the nature and accounting for goodwill and the carrying values of goodwill by major business segment.
Accounting and reporting developments
Accounting for income taxes  repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") was signed into law. The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. companies to repatriate accumulated foreign earnings at a substantially reduced U.S. effective tax rate by providing a dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings to the U.S. taxpayer (the "repatriation provision"). The new deduction is subject to a number of limitations and requirements.
In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Firm applied the repatriation provision to $1.9 billion of cash from foreign earnings, resulting in a net tax benefit of $55 million. The $1.9 billion of cash will be used in accordance with the Firm's domestic reinvestment plan pursuant to the guidelines set forth in the Act.
Accounting for share-based payments
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which revises SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued SAB 107 which provides interpretive guidance on SFAS 123R. Accounting and reporting under SFAS 123R is generally similar to the SFAS 123 approach. However, SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based upon their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. SFAS 123R permits adoption using one of two methods  modified prospective or modified retrospective. In April 2005, the SEC approved a new rule that, for public companies, delays the effective date of SFAS 123R to no later than January 1, 2006. The Firm adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, under the modified prospective method.
The Firm continued to account for certain stock options that were outstanding as of December 31, 2002, under APB 25 using the intrinsic value method. Therefore, compensation expense for some previously granted awards that was not recognized under SFAS 123 will be recognized commencing January 1, 2006, under SFAS 123R. Had the Firm adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the impact would have approximated that shown in the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosures in Note 7 on pages 100102 of this Annual Report, which presents net income and earnings per share as if all outstanding awards were accounted for at fair value.
Prior to adopting SFAS 123R, the Firm's accounting policy for share-based payment awards granted to retirement-eligible employees was to recognize
 
Management's discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
compensation cost over the awards' stated service period. For awards granted to retirement-eligible employees in January 2006, which are subject to SFAS 123R, the Firm will recognize compensation expense on the grant date without giving consideration to the impact of post-employment restrictions. This will result in an increase in compensation expense for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006 of approximately $300 million, as compared with the expense that would have been recognized under the Firm's prior accounting policy. The Firm will also accrue in 2006 the estimated cost of stock awards to be granted to retirement-eligible employees in January 2007.
Accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations
In March 2005, FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the term "conditional asset retirement obligation" as used in SFAS 143. Conditional asset retirement obligations are legal obligations to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional based upon a future event that may or may not be within the control of the company. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and/or method of settlement. FIN 47 clarifies that a company is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of the conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated and provides guidance for determining when a company would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of the obligation. The Firm adopted FIN 47 on December 31, 2005. The implementation did not have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.
Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 155, which applies to certain "hybrid financial instruments," which are instruments that contain embedded derivatives. The new standard establishes a requirement to evaluate beneficial interests in securitized financial assets to determine if the interests represent freestanding derivatives or are hybrid financial instruments containing embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation.
This new standard also permits an election for fair value remeasurement of any hybrid financial instrument containing an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation under SFAS 133. The fair value election can be applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis to existing instruments at the date of adoption and can be applied to new instruments on a prospective basis.
Currently, the Firm is planning to adopt this standard effective January 1, 2006. In addition, the Firm is assessing to which qualifying existing and newly issued instruments it will apply the fair value election. Implementation of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Firm's financial position or results of operations.
Nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts at fair value
In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts. To determine the fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses various fair value estimation techniques, which are primarily based upon internal models with significant observable market parameters. The Firm's nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts are primarily energy-related contracts. The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts for the year ended December 31, 2005:
The following table indicates the schedule of maturities of nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2005:
 
Management's report on internal control over financial reporting
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Management of JPMorgan Chase & Co. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Firm's principal executive, principal operating and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by JPMorgan Chase's board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
JPMorgan Chase's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records, that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the Firm's assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Firm are being made only in accordance with authorizations of JPMorgan Chase's management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Firm's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has completed an assessment of the effectiveness of the Firm's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In making the assessment, management used the framework in "Internal Control Integrated Framework" promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, commonly referred to as the "COSO" criteria.
Based upon the assessment performed, management concluded that as of December 31, 2005, JPMorgan Chase's internal control over financial reporting was effective based upon the COSO criteria. Additionally, based upon management's assessment, the Firm determined that there were no material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005.
Management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Firm's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, JPMorgan Chase's independent registered public accounting firm, who also audited the Firm's financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005, as stated in their report which is included herein.
 
Report of independent registered public accounting firm
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of JPMorgan Chase & Co.:
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  -  300 Madison Avenue  -  New York, NY 10017
We have completed integrated audits of JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s 2005 and 2004 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and an audit of its 2003 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions on JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s 2005, 2004, and 2003 consolidated financial statements and on its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on our audits, are presented below.
Consolidated financial statements
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
As described in the section entitled "Restatement of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows" included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company restated its 2005, 2004 and 2003 consolidated financial statements.
Internal control over financial reporting
Also, in our opinion, management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management's report on internal control over financial reporting, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the COSO. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
February 24, 2006, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the section entitled "Restatement of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows" included in Note 1, as to which the date is August 3, 2006; and except for the effects of discontinued operations and segment changes discussed in Note 33, as to which the date is September 15, 2006
 
Consolidated statements of income
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
 
Consolidated balance sheets
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The Firm has announced the exchange of certain portions of the corporate trust business for the consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York. The corporate trust businesses to be transferred includes trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management. In connection with the exchange of the corporate trust businesses, JPMorgan Chase will transfer to The Bank of New York on the closing date certain customer assets and liabilities; however, JPMorgan Chase has not reclassified any assets or liabilities of discontinued operations held-for-sale in the Consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
 
Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
 
Consolidated statements of cash flows
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Note 1  Basis of presentation
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm"), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States, with operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction processing, investment management, private banking and private equity. For a discussion of the Firm's business segment information, see Note 31 on pages 130131 of this Annual Report.
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and prevailing industry practices. Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.
Certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include accounts of JPMorgan Chase and other entities in which the Firm has a controlling financial interest. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The usual condition for a controlling financial interest is ownership of a majority of the voting interests of an entity. However, a controlling financial interest may also exist in entities, such as special purpose entities ("SPEs"), through arrangements that do not involve controlling voting interests.
SPEs are an important part of the financial markets, providing market liquidity by facilitating investors' access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. They are, for example, critical to the functioning of the mortgage- and asset-backed securities and commercial paper markets. SPEs may be organized as trusts, partnerships or corporations and are typically set up for a single, discrete purpose. SPEs are not typically operating entities and usually have a limited life and no employees. The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors. The legal documents that govern the transaction describe how the cash earned on the assets must be allocated to the SPE's investors and other parties that have rights to those cash flows. SPEs can be structured to be bankruptcy-remote, thereby insulating investors from the impact of the creditors of other entities, including the seller of the assets.
There are two different accounting frameworks applicable to SPEs: the qualifying SPE ("QSPE") framework under SFAS 140; and the variable interest entity ("VIE") framework under FIN 46R. The applicable framework depends on the nature of the entity and the Firm's relation to that entity. The QSPE framework is applicable when an entity transfers (sells) financial assets to an SPE meeting certain criteria defined in SFAS 140. These criteria are designed to ensure that the activities of the entity are essentially predetermined at the inception of the vehicle and that the transferor of the financial assets cannot exercise control over the entity and the assets therein. Entities meeting these criteria are not consolidated by the transferor or other counterparties, as long as they do not have the unilateral ability to liquidate or to cause the entity to no longer meet the QSPE criteria. The Firm primarily follows the QSPE model for securitizations of its residential and commercial mortgages, credit card loans and automobile loans. For further details, see Note 13 on pages 108111 of this Annual Report.
When the SPE does not meet the QSPE criteria, consolidation is assessed pursuant to FIN 46R. Under FIN 46R, a VIE is defined as an entity that: (1) lacks enough equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties; (2) has equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the entity's operations; and/or (3) has equity owners that do not have an obligation to absorb or the right to receive the entity's losses or returns.
FIN 46R requires a variable interest holder (i.e., a counterparty to a VIE) to consolidate the VIE if that party will absorb a majority of the expected losses of the VIE, receive the majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE, or both. This party is considered the primary beneficiary. In making this determination, the Firm thoroughly evaluates the VIE's design, capital structure and relationships among variable interest holders. When the primary beneficiary cannot be identified through a qualitative analysis, the Firm performs a quantitative analysis, which computes and allocates expected losses or residual returns to variable interest holders. The allocation of expected cash flows in this analysis is based upon the relative contractual rights and preferences of each interest holder in the VIE's capital structure. For further details, see Note 14 on pages 111113 of this Annual Report.
All retained interests and significant transactions between the Firm, QSPEs and nonconsolidated VIEs are reflected on JPMorgan Chase's Consolidated balance sheets or in the Notes to consolidated financial statements.
Investments in companies that are considered to be voting-interest entities under FIN 46R in which the Firm has significant influence over operating and financing decisions are accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting. These investments are generally included in Other assets, and the Firm's share of income or loss is included in Other income. For a discussion of private equity investments, see Note 9 on pages 103105 of this Annual Report.
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by the Firm are not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included in the Consolidated balance sheets.
Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated financial statements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could be different from these estimates.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Foreign currency translation
JPMorgan Chase revalues assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars using applicable exchange rates.
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency financial statements for U.S. reporting are included in Other comprehensive income (loss) within Stockholders' equity. Gains and losses relating to nonfunctional currency transactions, including non-U.S. operations where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar and operations in highly inflationary environments, are reported in the Consolidated statements of income.
Statements of cash flows
For JPMorgan Chase's Consolidated statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are defined as those amounts included in Cash and due from banks.
Significant accounting policies
The following table identifies JPMorgan Chase's significant accounting policies and the Note and page where a detailed description of each policy can be found:
Restatement of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
As reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Firm on August 3, 2006, the Firm has filed an amended Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 to restate the Consolidated statements of cash flows for the annual periods of 2005, 2004 and 2003 and an amended Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 to restate the Consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the quarterly periods of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006. The restatements did not affect the Firm's Consolidated statements of income, Consolidated balance sheets or Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity for any of the affected periods. Accordingly, the Firm's historical revenues, net income, earnings per share, total assets and regulatory capital remain unchanged.
The restatements result solely from the misclassification of cash flows related to certain residential mortgages and other loans that had been originated or purchased with the intent to sell. The cash flows from these loans had been classified as investing activities. However, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 102, "Statement of Cash FlowsExemption of Certain Enterprises and Classification of Cash Flows from Certain Securities Acquired for Resale," cash flows from these loans should have been, and in the future will be, classified as operating activities, rather than investing activities. Accordingly, the restatements solely affect the classification of these activities and the subtotals of cash flows from operating and investing activities presented in the affected Consolidated statements of cash flows, but they will have no impact on the net increase (decrease) in total Cash and due from banks set forth in the Consolidated statements of cash flows for any of the previously reported periods.
The Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, as previously reported and as restated, are reflected on the following page.
 
Consolidated statements of cash flows
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Note 2  Business changes and developments
Merger with Bank One Corporation
Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase (the "Merger") on July 1, 2004. As a result of the Merger, each outstanding share of common stock of Bank One was converted in a stock-for-stock exchange into 1.32 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase. JPMorgan Chase stockholders kept their shares, which remained outstanding and unchanged as shares of JPMorgan Chase following the Merger. Key objectives of the Merger were to provide the Firm with a more balanced business mix and greater geographic diversification. The Merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of Bank One be fair valued as of July 1, 2004. The purchase price to complete the Merger was $58.5 billion.
As part of the Merger, certain accounting policies and practices were conformed, which resulted in $976 million of charges in 2004. The significant components of the conformity charges comprised a $1.4 billion charge related to the decertification of the seller's interest in credit card securitizations, and the benefit of a $584 million reduction in the allowance for credit losses as a result of conforming the wholesale and consumer credit provision methodologies.
The final purchase price of the Merger has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed using their fair values as of the merger date. The computation of the purchase price and the allocation of the purchase price to the net assets of Bank One  based on their respective fair values as of July 1, 2004  and the resulting goodwill are presented below.
 
Condensed statement of net assets acquired
The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the fair value of Bank One net assets as of July 1, 2004.
Acquired, identifiable intangible assets
Components of the fair value of acquired, identifiable intangible assets as of July 1, 2004, were as follows:
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presents the results of operations of the Firm had the Merger taken place at January 1, 2003.
Other business events
Acquisition of the consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York in exchange for certain portions of the corporate trust business, including trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses
On April 8, 2006, JPMorgan Chase announced an agreement to acquire The Bank of New York's consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses in exchange for certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business plus a cash payment of $150 million. The Bank of New York businesses being acquired are valued at a premium of $2.30 billion; the Firm's corporate trust businesses being transferred (i.e., trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses) are valued at a premium of $2.15 billion. The Firm may also make a future payment to The Bank of New York of up to $50 million depending on certain new account openings. JPMorgan Chase expects to recognize an after-tax gain of approximately $600-$700 million. The transaction has been approved by both companies' boards of directors and is subject to regulatory approvals. It is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Collegiate Funding Services
On March 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired, for approximately $663 million, Collegiate Funding Services, a leader in student loan servicing and consolidation. This acquisition will enable the Firm to create a comprehensive education finance business.
BrownCo
On November 30, 2005, JPMorgan Chase sold BrownCo, an on-line deep-discount brokerage business, to E*TRADE Financial for a cash purchase price of $1.6 billion. JPMorgan Chase recognized an after-tax gain of $752 million. BrownCo's results of operations are reported in the Asset & Wealth Management business segment; however, the gain on the sale, which is recorded in Other income in the Consolidated statements of income, is reported in the Corporate business segment.
Sears Canada credit card business
On November 15, 2005, JPMorgan Chase purchased Sears Canada Inc.'s credit card operation, including both the private-label card accounts and the co-branded Sears MasterCardaccounts. The credit card operation includes approximately 10 million accounts with $2.2 billion (CAD$2.5 billion) in managed loans. Sears Canada and JPMorgan Chase entered into an ongoing arrangement under which JPMorgan Chase will offer private-label and co-branded credit cards to both new and existing customers of Sears Canada.
Chase Merchant Services, Paymentech integration
On October 5, 2005, JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corp. completed the integration of the companies' jointly owned Chase Merchant Services and Paymentech merchant businesses, to be operated under the name of Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC. The joint venture is the largest financial transaction processor in the U.S. for businesses accepting credit card payments via traditional point of sale, Internet, catalog and recurring billing. As a result of the integration into a joint venture, Paymentech has been deconsolidated and JPMorgan Chase's ownership interest in this joint venture is accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting.
Neovest Holdings, Inc.
On September 1, 2005, JPMorgan Chase completed its acquisition of Neovest Holdings, Inc., a provider of high-performance trading technology and direct market access. This transaction will enable the Investment Bank to offer a leading, broker-neutral trading platform across asset classes to institutional investors, asset managers and hedge funds.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Vastera
On April 1, 2005, JPMorgan Chase acquired Vastera, a provider of global trade management solutions, for approximately $129 million. Vastera's business was combined with the Logistics and Trade Services businesses of TSS' Treasury Services unit. Vastera automates trade management processes associated with the physical movement of goods internationally; the acquisition enables TS to offer management of information and processes in support of physical goods movement, together with financial settlement.
JPMorgan Partners
On March 1, 2005, the Firm announced that the management team of JPMorgan Partners, LLC, a private equity unit of the Firm, will become independent when it completes the investment of the current $6.5 billion Global Fund, which it advises. The buyout and growth equity professionals of JPMorgan Partners will form a new independent firm, CCMP Capital, LLC, and the venture professionals will separately form a new independent firm, Panorama Capital, LLC. JPMorgan Chase has committed to invest the lesser of $875 million or 24.9% of the limited partnership interests in the fund to be raised by CCMP Capital, and has committed to invest the lesser of $50 million or 24.9% of the limited partnership interests in the fund to be raised by Panorama Capital. The investment professionals of CCMP and Panorama will continue to manage the JPMP investments pursuant to a management agreement with the Firm.
Cazenove
On February 28, 2005, JPMorgan Chase and Cazenove Group plc ("Cazenove") formed a business partnership which combined Cazenove's investment banking business and JPMorgan Chase's U.K.-based investment banking business in order to provide investment banking services in the United Kingdom and Ireland. The new company is called JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings.
Other acquisitions
During 2004, JPMorgan Chase purchased the Electronic Financial Services ("EFS") business from Citigroup and acquired a majority interest in hedge fund manager Highbridge Capital Management ("Highbridge").
Note 3  Trading activities
Trading assets include debt and equity securities held for trading purposes that JPMorgan Chase owns ("long" positions). Trading liabilities include debt and equity securities that the Firm has sold to other parties but does not own ("short" positions). The Firm is obligated to purchase securities at a future date to cover the short positions. Included in Trading assets and Trading liabilities are the reported receivables (unrealized gains) and payables (unrealized losses) related to derivatives. These amounts include the derivative assets and liabilities net of cash received and paid, respectively, under legally enforceable master netting agreements. At December 31, 2005, the amount of cash received and paid was approximately $26.7 billion and $18.9 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2004, the amount of cash received and paid was approximately $32.2 billion and $22.0 billion, respectively. Trading positions are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets.
Trading revenue
Trading assets and liabilities
The following table presents the fair value of Trading assets and Trading liabilities for the dates indicated:
Average Trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods indicated:
 
Note 4  Other noninterest revenue
Investment banking fees
This revenue category includes advisory and equity and debt underwriting fees. Advisory fees are recognized as revenue when related services are performed. Underwriting fees are recognized as revenue when the Firm has rendered all services to the issuer and is entitled to collect the fee from the issuer, as long as there are no other contingencies associated with the fee (e.g., the fee is not contingent upon the customer obtaining financing). Underwriting fees are net of syndicate expenses. In addition, the Firm recognizes credit arrangement and syndication fees as revenue after satisfying certain retention, timing and yield criteria.
The following table presents the components of Investment banking fees:
Lending & deposit related fees
This revenue category includes fees from loan commitments, standby letters of credit, financial guarantees, deposit-related fees in lieu of compensating balances, cash management-related activities or transactions, deposit accounts, and other loan servicing activities. These fees are recognized over the period in which the related service is provided.
Asset management, administration and commissions
This revenue category includes fees from investment management and related services, custody and institutional trust services, brokerage services, insurance premiums and commissions and other products. These fees are recognized over the period in which the related service is provided.
Mortgage fees and related income
This revenue category includes fees and income derived from mortgage origination, sales and servicing, and includes the effect of risk management activities associated with the mortgage pipeline, warehouse and the mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs") asset (excluding gains and losses on the sale of Available-for-sale ("AFS") securities). Origination fees and gains or losses on loan sales are recognized in income upon sale. Mortgage servicing fees are recognized over the period the related service is provided, net of amortization. Valuation changes in the mortgage pipeline, warehouse, MSR asset and corresponding risk management instruments are generally adjusted through earnings as these changes occur. Net interest income and securities gains and losses on AFS securities used in mortgage-related risk management activities are not included in Mortgage fees and related income. For a further discussion of MSRs, see Note 15 on pages 114116 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income
This revenue category includes interchange income from credit and debit cards, annual fees, and servicing fees earned in connection with securitization activities. Volume-related payments to partners and expenses for rewards programs are also recorded within Credit card income. Fee revenues are recognized as earned, except for annual fees, which are recognized over a 12-month period. Expenses related to rewards programs are recorded when earned by the customer.
Credit card revenue sharing agreements
The Firm has contractual agreements with numerous affinity organizations and co-brand partners, which grant to the Firm exclusive rights to market to their members or customers. These organizations and partners provide to the Firm their endorsement of the credit card programs, mailing lists, and may also conduct marketing activities and provide awards under the various credit card programs. The terms of these agreements generally range from 3 to 10 years. The economic incentives the Firm pays to the endorsing organizations and partners typically include payments based upon new accounts, activation, charge volumes, and the cost of their marketing activities and awards.
The Firm recognizes the portion of payments based upon new accounts to the affinity organizations and co-brand partners, as deferred loan origination costs. The Firm defers these costs and amortizes them over 12 months. Payments based upon charge volumes and considered by the Firm as revenue sharing with the affinity organizations and co-brand partners are deducted from Credit card income as the related revenue is earned. The Firm expenses payments based upon marketing efforts performed by the endorsing organization or partner to activate a new account as incurred. These costs are recorded within Noninterest expense.
Note 5  Interest income and interest expense
Details of Interest income and Interest expense were as follows:
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Note 6  Pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans
New U.S.-based postretirement plans were introduced in 2005 after the Bank One plans were merged into the heritage JPMorgan Chase plans as of December 31, 2004.
The Firm's defined benefit pension plans are accounted for in accordance with SFAS 87 and SFAS 88. The postretirement medical and life insurance plans are accounted for in accordance with SFAS 106.
The Firm uses a measurement date of December 31 for pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans. In addition, as of August 1, 2005, the U.S. postretirement medical and life insurance plan was remeasured to reflect a mid-year plan amendment and the final Medicare Part D regulations that were issued on January 21, 2005. For the Firm's defined benefit pension plan assets, fair value is used to determine the expected return on pension plan assets. For the Firm's other postretirement employee benefit plan assets, a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year period is used to determine the expected return on other postretirement employee benefit plan assets. Unrecognized net actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs associated with the U.S. defined benefit pension plan are amortized over the average future service period of plan participants, which is currently 10 years. For other postretirement employee benefit plans, unrecognized gains and losses are also amortized over the average future service period, which is currently 8 years. However, prior service costs associated with other postretirement employee benefit plans are recognized over the average years of service remaining to full eligibility age, which is currently 6 years.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
The Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S. defined benefit pension plan that provides benefits to substantially all U.S. employees. The U.S. plan employs a cash balance formula, in the form of salary and interest credits, to determine the benefits to be provided at retirement, based upon eligible compensation and years of service. Employees begin to accrue plan benefits after completing one year of service, and benefits generally vest after five years of service. The Firm also offers benefits through defined benefit pension plans to qualifying employees in certain non-U.S. locations based upon eligible compensation and years of service.
It is the Firm's policy to fund the pension plans in amounts sufficient to meet the requirements under applicable employee benefit and local tax laws. The Firm did not make any U.S. pension plan contributions in 2005 and based upon the current funded status of this plan, the Firm does not expect to make significant contributions in 2006. In 2004, the Firm made a cash contribution to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan of $1.1 billion, funding the plan to the maximum allowable amount under applicable tax law. Additionally, the Firm made cash contributions totaling $78 million and $40 million to fully fund the accumulated benefit obligations of certain non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Postretirement medical and life insurance
JPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain retirees and qualifying U.S. employees. These benefits vary with length of service and date of hire and provide for limits on the Firm's share of covered medical benefits. The medical benefits are contributory, while the life insurance benefits are noncontributory. As of August 1, 2005, the eligibility requirements for U.S. employees to qualify for subsidized retiree medical coverage were revised and life insurance coverage was eliminated for active employees retiring after 2005. Postretirement medical benefits also are offered to qualifying U.K. employees.
In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the "Act") was enacted. The Act established a prescription drug benefit under Medicare ("Medicare Part D") and a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. The Firm has determined that benefits provided to certain participants are at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D and has reflected the effects of the subsidy in the financial statements and disclosures retroactive to the beginning of 2004 (July 1, 2004 for Bank One plans) in accordance with FSP SFAS 106-2.
JPMorgan Chase's U.S. postretirement benefit obligation is partially funded with corporate-owned life insurance ("COLI") purchased on the lives of eligible employees and retirees. While the Firm owns the COLI policies, COLI proceeds (death benefits, withdrawals and other distributions) may be used only to reimburse the Firm for net postretirement benefit claim payments and related administrative expenses. The U.K. postretirement benefit plan is unfunded.
The following tables present the funded status and amounts reported on the Consolidated balance sheets, the accumulated benefit obligation and the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated statements of income for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans:
 
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase has a number of other defined benefit pension plans (i.e., U.S. plans not subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act). The most significant of these plans is the Excess Retirement Plan, pursuant to which certain employees earn service credits on compensation amounts above the maximum stipulated by law. This plan is a nonqualified, noncontributory U.S. pension plan with an unfunded liability at December 31, 2005 and 2004, in the amount of $273 million and $292 million, respectively. Compensation expense related to this pension plan totaled $21 million in 2005, $28 million in 2004 and $19 million in 2003.
Plan assumptions
JPMorgan Chase's expected long-term rate of return for U.S. pension and other postretirement employee benefit plan assets is a blended average of the investment advisor's projected long-term (10 years or more) returns for the various asset classes, weighted by the portfolio allocation. Asset-class returns are developed using a forward-looking building-block approach and are not based strictly upon historical returns. Equity returns are generally developed as the sum of inflation, expected real earnings growth and expected long-term dividend yield. Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of inflation, real bond yield and risk spread (as appropriate), adjusted for the expected effect on returns from changing yields. Other asset-class returns are derived from their relationship to the equity and bond markets.
In the U.K., which represents the most significant of the non-U.S. pension plans, procedures similar to those in the U.S. are used to develop the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, taking into consideration local market conditions and the specific allocation of plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return on U.K. plan assets is an average of projected long-term returns for each asset class, selected by reference to the yield on long-term U.K. government bonds and AA-rated long-term corporate bonds, plus an equity risk premium above the risk-free rate.
In 2005, the discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation under the U.S. pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans was selected by reference to the yield on a portfolio of bonds whose redemptions and coupons closely match each of the plan's projected cash flows; such portfolio is derived from a broad-based universe of high quality corporate bonds as of the measurement date. In years in which this hypothetical bond portfolio generates excess cash, such excess is assumed to be reinvested at the one-year forward rates implied by the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve published as of the measurement date. Prior to 2005, discount rates were selected by reference to the year-end Moody's corporate AA rate, as well as other high-quality indices with a duration that was similar to that of the respective plan's benefit obligations. The discount rate for the U.K. pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans was determined by matching the duration of the Firm's obligations with the corresponding duration from the yield curve of the year-end iBoxx  corporate AA 15-year-plus bond index.
The following tables present the weighted-average annualized actuarial assumptions for the projected and accumulated benefit obligations, and the components of net periodic benefit costs for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans, as of year-end.
 
 
The following tables present JPMorgan Chase's assumed weighted-average medical benefits cost trend rate, which is used to measure the expected cost of benefits at year-end, and the effect of a one-percentage-point change in the assumed medical benefits cost trend rate.
 
At December 31, 2005, the Firm reduced the discount rate used to determine its U.S. benefit obligations to 5.70% for the pension plan and to 5.65% for the postretirement benefits plans from the prior year rate of 5.75% for both plans. The Firm also changed the health care benefit obligation trend assumption to 10% for 2006, grading down to an ultimate rate of 5% in 2013. The 2006 expected long-term rate of return on its U.S. pension plan assets remained at 7.50%. The 2006 expected long-term rate of return on the Firm's COLI postretirement plan assets remained at 7.00%; however, with the merger of Bank One's other postretirement plan assets, the Firm's overall expected long-term rate of return on U.S. postretirement employee benefit plan assets decreased to 6.84% and 6.80% in 2005 and 2004, respectively, to reflect a weighted average expected rate of return for the merged plan. The interest crediting rate assumption used to determine pension benefits changed to 5.00% from 4.75% in 2005, primarily due to changes in market interest rates which will result in additional expense of $18 million. The changes as of December 31, 2005, to the discount rates are expected to increase 2006 U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit expenses by approximately $5 million and to the non-U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit expenses by $23 million. The rate of compensation increase assumption of 4.00% at December 31, 2005, reflects the consolidation of the prior JPMorgan Chase and Bank One age-weighted increase assumptions; the impact to expense is not expected to be material.
JPMorgan Chase's U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit expenses are most sensitive to the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. With all other assumptions held constant, a 25basis point decline in the expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets would result in an increase of approximately $26 million in 2006 U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit expenses. A 25basis point decline in the discount rate for the U.S. plans would result in an increase in 2006 U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit expenses of approximately $20 million and an increase in the related projected benefit obligations of approximately $233 million. A 25-basis point decline in the discount rates for the non-U.S. plans would result in an increase in the 2006 non-U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit expenses of $12 million. A 25-basis point increase in the interest crediting rate would result in an increase in 2006 U.S. pension expense of approximately $18 million.
Investment strategy and asset allocation
The investment policy for the Firm's postretirement employee benefit plan assets is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate to the respective plan's needs and goals, using a global portfolio of various asset classes diversified by market segment, economic sector, and issuer. Specifically, the goal is to optimize the asset mix for future benefit obligations, while managing various risk factors and each plan's investment return objectives. For example, long-duration fixed income securities are included in the U.S. qualified pension plan's asset allocation, in recognition of its long-duration obligations. Plan assets are managed by a combination of internal and external investment managers and, on a quarterly basis, are rebalanced to target, to the extent economically practical.
The Firm's U.S. pension plan assets are held in various trusts and are invested in well-diversified portfolios of equities (including U.S. large and small capitalization and international equities), fixed income (including corporate and government bonds), Treasury inflation-indexed and high-yield securities, cash equivalents, and other securities. Non-U.S. pension plan assets are held in various trusts and are similarly invested in well-diversified portfolios of equity, fixed income and other securities. Assets of the Firm's COLI policies, which are used to fund partially the U.S. postretirement benefit plan, are held in separate accounts with an insurance company and are invested in equity and fixed income index funds. In addition, tax-exempt municipal debt securities, held in a trust, are used to fund the U.S. postretirement benefit plan. As of December 31, 2005, the assets used to fund the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans do not include JPMorgan Chase common stock, except in connection with investments in third-party stock-index funds.
The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation at December 31 for the years indicated, and the respective target allocation by asset category, for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans.
 
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Estimated future benefit payments
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid, which include the effect of expected future service, for the years indicated. The postretirement medical and life insurance payments are net of expected retiree contributions.
Defined contribution plans
JPMorgan Chase offers several defined contribution plans in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. locations. The most significant of these plans is the 401(k) Savings Plan, which covers substantially all U.S. employees. The 401(k) Savings Plan allows employees to make pre-tax contributions to tax-deferred investment portfolios. The JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Fund within the 401(k) Savings Plan is a nonleveraged employee stock ownership plan. The Firm matches eligible employee contributions up to a certain percentage of benefits-eligible compensation per pay period, subject to plan and legal limits. Employees begin to receive matching contributions after completing a specified service requirement and are immediately vested in such company contributions. The Firm's defined contribution plans are administered in accordance with applicable local laws and regulations. Compensation expense related to these plans totaled $392 million in 2005, $317 million in 2004 and $240 million in 2003.
Note 7  Employee stock-based incentives
Effective January 1, 2003, JPMorgan Chase adopted SFAS 123 using the prospective transition method. SFAS 123 requires all stock-based compensation awards, including stock options and stock-settled stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), to be accounted for at fair value. The Firm currently uses the Black-Scholes valuation model to estimate the fair value of stock options and SARs. Stock options that were outstanding as of December 31, 2002, continue to be accounted for under APB 25 using the intrinsic value method. Under this method, no expense is recognized for stock options or SARs granted at the stock price on grant date, since such options have no intrinsic value. Compensation expense for restricted stock and restricted stock units ("RSUs") is measured based upon the number of shares granted and the stock price at the grant date. Compensation expense is recognized in earnings over the required service period.
In connection with the Merger in 2004, JPMorgan Chase converted all outstanding Bank One employee stock-based awards at the merger date, and those awards became exercisable for or based upon JPMorgan Chase common stock. The number of awards converted, and the exercise prices of those awards, was adjusted to take into account the Merger exchange ratio of 1.32.
On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which revises SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25. In March 2005, the SEC issued SAB 107, which provides interpretive guidance on SFAS 123R. Accounting and reporting under SFAS 123R is generally similar to the SFAS 123 approach. However, SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options and SARs, to be recognized in the income statement based upon their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. SFAS 123R permits adoption using one of two methods  modified prospective or modified retrospective. In April 2005, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission approved a new rule that, for public companies, delayed the effective date of SFAS 123R to no later than January 1, 2006. The Firm adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, under the modified prospective method.
Key employee stock-based awards
In 2005, JPMorgan Chase granted long-term stock-based awards under the 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended ("the 1996 Plan") until May 2005 and under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("the 2005 Plan") thereafter to certain key employees. These two plans, plus prior Firm plans and plans assumed as the result of acquisitions, constitute the Firm's plans ("LTI Plans"). The 2005 Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors on March 15, 2005, and became effective on May 17, 2005, after approval by shareholders at the annual meeting. The 2005 Plan replaces three existing stock compensation plansthe 1996 Plan and two non-shareholder approved plansall of which expired in May 2005. Under the terms of the 2005 Plan, 275 million shares of common stock are available for issuance during its five-year term. The 2005 Plan is the only active plan under which the Firm is currently granting stock-based incentive awards.
In 2005, 15.5 million SARs settled only in shares and 1.7 million nonqualified stock options were granted. Under the LTI Plans, stock options and SARs are granted with an exercise price equal to JPMorgan Chase's common stock price on the grant date. Generally, options and SARs cannot be exercised until at least one year after the grant date and become exercisable over various periods as determined at the time of the grant. These awards generally expire 10 years after the grant date.
In December 2005, the Firm accelerated the vesting of approximately 41 million unvested, out-of-the-money employee stock options granted in 2001 under the Growth and Performance Incentive Program ("GPIP"), which were scheduled to vest in January 2007. These options were not modified other than to accelerate vesting. The related expense was approximately $145 million, and was recognized as compensation expense in the fourth quarter of 2005. The Firm believes that at the time the options were accelerated they had limited economic value since the exercise price of the accelerated options was $51.22 and the closing price of the Firm's common stock on the effective date of the acceleration was $39.69.
 
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan Chase's option and SAR activity under the LTI Plans during the last three years:
 
The following table details the distribution of options and SARs outstanding under the LTI Plans at December 31, 2005:
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan Chase's restricted stock and RSU activity under the LTI Plans during the last three years:
 
Restricted stock and RSUs are granted by JPMorgan Chase at no cost to the recipient. These awards are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have lapsed, including continued employment for a specified period. The recipient of a share of restricted stock is entitled to voting rights and dividends on the common stock. An RSU entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock after the applicable restrictions lapse; the recipient is entitled to receive cash payments equivalent to any dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the period the RSU is outstanding. Effective January 2005, the equity portion of the Firm's annual incentive awards were granted primarily in the form of RSUs.
The vesting of certain awards issued prior to 2002 is conditioned upon certain service requirements being met and JPMorgan Chase's common stock reaching and sustaining target prices within a five-year performance period. During 2002, it was determined that it was no longer probable that the target stock prices related to forfeitable awards granted in 1999, 2000, and 2001 would be achieved within their respective performance periods, and accordingly, previously accrued expenses were reversed. The target stock prices for these awards range from $73.33 to $85.00. These awards were forfeited as follows: 1.2 million shares granted in 1999 were forfeited in January 2004; and 1.2 million shares granted in 2000 were forfeited in January 2005. Additionally, 1.2 million shares granted in 2001 were forfeited in January 2006.
Broad-based employee stock options
No broad-based employee stock option grants were made in 2005. Prior awards were granted by JPMorgan Chase under the Value Sharing Plan, a non-shareholder-approved plan. The exercise price is equal to JPMorgan Chase's common stock price on the grant date. The options become exercisable over various periods and generally expire 10 years after the grant date.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan Chase's broad-based employee stock option plans and SAR activity during the past three years:
The following table details the distribution of broad-based employee stock options and SARs outstanding at December 31, 2005:
Comparison of the fair and intrinsic value measurement methods
Pre-tax employee stock-based compensation expense related to the LTI plans totaled $1.6 billion in 2005, $1.3 billion in 2004 and $919 million in 2003.
The following table presents net income (after-tax) and basic and diluted earnings per share as reported, and as if all outstanding awards were accounted for at fair value:
 
The following table presents JPMorgan Chase's weighted-average, grant-date fair values for the employee stock-based compensation awards granted, and the assumptions used to value stock options and SARs under the Black-Scholes valuation model:
 
 
Note 8  Noninterest expense
Merger costs
Costs associated with the Merger were reflected in the Merger costs caption of the Consolidated statements of income. A summary of such costs, by expense category, is shown in the following table for 2005 and 2004. There were no such costs in 2003.
 
The table below shows the change in the liability balance related to the costs associated with the Merger.
 
Note 9  Securities and private equity investments
Securities are classified as AFS, Held-to-maturity ("HTM") or Trading. Trading securities are discussed in Note 3 on page 94 of this Annual Report. Securities are classified as AFS when, in management's judgment, they may be sold in response to or in anticipation of changes in market conditions, or as part of the Firm's management of its structural interest rate risk. AFS securities are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains and losses after SFAS 133 valuation adjustments are reported as net increases or decreases to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The specific identification method is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS securities, which are included in Securities /private equity gains on the Consolidated statements of income. Securities that the Firm has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as HTM and are carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated balance sheets.
The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS securities and private equity gains (losses):
 
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and held-to-maturity securities were as follows for the dates indicated:
 
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The following table presents the fair value and unrealized losses for AFS securities by aging category at December 31:
Impairment is evaluated considering numerous factors, and their relative significance varies case to case. Factors considered include the length of time and extent to which the market value has been less than cost; the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer of the securities; and the Firm's intent and ability to retain the security in order to allow for an anticipated recovery in market value. If, based upon the analysis, it is determined that the impairment is other-than-temporary, the security is written down to fair value, and a loss is recognized through earnings.
Included in the $727 million of gross unrealized losses on AFS securities at December 31, 2005, was $391 million of unrealized losses that have existed for a period greater than 12 months. These securities are predominately rated AAA and the unrealized losses are due to overall increases in market interest rates and not due to underlying credit concerns of the issuers. Substantially all of the securities with unrealized losses aged greater than 12 months have a market value at December 31, 2005, that is within 4% of their amortized cost basis.
In calculating the effective yield for mortgage-backed securities ("MBS") and collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMO"), JPMorgan Chase includes the effect of principal prepayments. Management regularly performs simulation testing to determine the impact that market conditions would have on its MBS and CMO portfolios. MBSs and CMOs that management believes have prepayment risk are included in the AFS portfolio and are reported at fair value.
 
The following table presents the amortized cost, estimated fair value and average yield at December 31, 2005, of JPMorgan Chase's AFS and HTM securities by contractual maturity:
 
Private equity investments are primarily held by the Private Equity business within Corporate (which includes JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners businesses). The Private Equity business invests in buyouts, growth equity and venture opportunities in the normal course of business. These investments are accounted for under investment company guidelines. Accordingly, these investments, irrespective of the percentage of equity ownership interest held by Private Equity, are carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in value are reported in Securities/private equity gains in the Consolidated statements of income in the period that the gains or losses occur.
Privately-held investments are initially valued based upon cost. The carrying values of privately-held investments are adjusted from cost to reflect both positive and negative changes evidenced by financing events with third-party capital providers. In addition, these investments are subject to ongoing impairment reviews by Private Equity's senior investment professionals. A variety of factors are reviewed and monitored to assess impairment including, but not limited to, operating performance and future expectations of the particular portfolio investment, industry valuations of comparable public companies, changes in market outlook and the third-party financing environment over time. The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of private investments held by Private Equity.
Private Equity also holds publicly-held equity investments, generally obtained through the initial public offering of privately-held equity investments. Publicly-held investments are marked to market at the quoted public value. To determine the carrying values of these investments, Private Equity incorporates the use of discounts to take into account the fact that it cannot immediately realize or risk-manage the quoted public values as a result of regulatory and/or contractual sales restrictions imposed on these holdings.
The following table presents the carrying value and cost of the Private Equity investment portfolio for the dates indicated:
Note 10  Securities financing activities
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned transactions primarily to finance the Firm's inventory positions, acquire securities to cover short positions and settle other securities obligations. The Firm also enters into these transactions to accommodate customers' needs.
Securities purchased under resale agreements ("resale agreements") and securities sold under repurchase agreements ("repurchase agreements") are generally treated as collateralized financing transactions and are carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at the amounts the securities will be subsequently sold or repurchased, plus accrued interest. Where appropriate, resale and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis in accordance with FIN 41. JPMorgan Chase takes possession of securities purchased under resale agreements. On a daily basis, JPMorgan Chase monitors the market value of the underlying collateral received from its counterparties, consisting primarily of U.S. and non-U.S. government and agency securities, and requests additional collateral from its counterparties when necessary.
Transactions similar to financing activities that do not meet the SFAS 140 definition of a repurchase agreement are accounted for as "buys" and "sells" rather than financing transactions. These transactions are accounted for as a purchase (sale) of the underlying securities with a forward obligation to sell (purchase) the securities. The forward purchase (sale) obligation, a derivative, is recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets at its fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in Trading revenue.
Securities borrowed and securities lent are recorded at the amount of cash collateral advanced or received. Securities borrowed consist primarily of government and equity securities. JPMorgan Chase monitors the market value of the securities borrowed and lent on a daily basis and calls for additional collateral when appropriate. Fees received or paid are recorded in Interest income or Interest expense.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments the Firm owns to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) on the Consolidated balance sheets.
At December 31, 2005, the Firm had received securities as collateral that can be repledged, delivered or otherwise used with a fair value of approximately $331 billion. This collateral was generally obtained under resale or securities borrowing agreements. Of these securities, approximately $320 billion were repledged, delivered or otherwise used, generally as collateral under repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements or to cover short sales.
Note 11  Loans
Loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of the Allowance for loan losses, unearned income and any net deferred loan fees. Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, with valuation changes recorded in noninterest revenue. Loans are classified as "trading" where positions are bought and sold to make profits from short-term movements in price. Loans held for trading purposes are included in Trading assets and are carried at fair value, with gains and losses included in Trading revenue. Interest income is recognized using the interest method, or on a basis approximating a level rate of return over the term of the loan.
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest is discontinued. Loans (other than certain consumer loans discussed below) are placed on nonaccrual status immediately if, in the opinion of management, full payment of principal or interest is in doubt, or when principal or interest is 90 days or more past due and collateral, if any, is insufficient to cover principal and interest. Interest accrued but not collected at the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status is reversed against Interest income. In addition, the amortization of net deferred loan fees is suspended. Interest income on nonaccrual loans is recognized only to the extent it is received in cash. However, where there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of loan principal, all cash thereafter received is applied to reduce the carrying value of such loans. Loans are restored to accrual status only when interest and principal payments are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured.
Consumer loans are generally charged to the Allowance for loan losses upon reaching specified stages of delinquency, in accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council ("FFIEC") policy. For example, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bankruptcy, whichever is earlier. Residential mortgage products are generally charged off to net realizable value at 180 days past due. Other consumer products are generally charged off (to net realizable value if collateralized) at 120 days past due. Accrued interest on residential mortgage products, and automobile and education financings and certain other consumer loans are accounted for in accordance with the nonaccrual loan policy discussed in the preceding paragraph. Interest and fees related to credit card loans continue to accrue until the loan is charged off or paid. Accrued interest on all other consumer loans is generally reversed against interest income when the loan is charged off. A collateralized loan is considered an in-substance foreclosure and is reclassified to assets acquired in loan satisfactions, within Other assets, only when JPMorgan Chase has taken physical possession of the collateral, but regardless of whether formal foreclosure proceedings have taken place.
The composition of the loan portfolio at each of the dates indicated was as follows:
 
 
The following table reflects information about the Firm's loans held for sale, principally mortgage-related:
Impaired loans
JPMorgan Chase accounts for and discloses nonaccrual loans as impaired loans and recognizes their interest income as discussed previously for nonaccrual loans. The Firm excludes from impaired loans its small-balance, homogeneous consumer loans; loans carried at fair value or the lower of cost or fair value; debt securities; and leases.
The table below sets forth information about JPMorgan Chase's impaired loans. The Firm primarily uses the discounted cash flow method for valuing impaired loans:
 
Note 12  Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase's Allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale (risk-rated) and consumer (scored) loan portfolios and represents management's estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm's loan portfolio. Management also computes an Allowance for wholesale lending-related commitments using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loans.
The Allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific component and a formula-based component. Within the formula-based component is a statistical calculation and an adjustment to the statistical calculation.
The asset-specific component relates to provisions for losses on loans considered impaired and measured pursuant to SFAS 114. An allowance is established when the discounted cash flows (or collateral value or observable market price) of the loan is lower than the carrying value of that loan. To compute the asset-specific component of the allowance, larger impaired loans are evaluated individually, and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool using historical loss experience for the respective class of assets.
The formula-based component covers performing wholesale and consumer loans and is the product of a statistical calculation, as well as adjustments to such calculation. These adjustments take into consideration model imprecision, external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation.
The statistical calculation is the product of probability of default and loss given default. For risk-rated loans (generally loans originated by the wholesale lines of business), these factors are differentiated by risk rating and maturity. For scored loans (generally loans originated by the consumer lines of business), loss is primarily determined by applying statistical loss factors and other risk indicators to pools of loans by asset type. Adjustments to the statistical calculation for the risk-rated portfolios are determined by creating estimated ranges using historical experience of both loss given default and probability of default. Factors related to concentrated and deteriorating industries are also incorporated into the calculation where relevant. Adjustments to the statistical calculation for the scored loan portfolios are accomplished in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment. The estimated ranges and the determination of the appropriate point within the range are based upon management's view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio.
The Allowance for lending-related commitments represents management's estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm's process of extending credit. Management establishes an asset-specific allowance for lending-related commitments that are considered impaired and computes a formula-based allowance for performing wholesale lending-related commitments. These are computed using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loan portfolio, modified for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown.
The allowance for credit losses is reviewed at least quarterly by the Chief Risk Officer of the Firm, the Risk Policy Committee, a risk subgroup of the Operating Committee, and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Firm relative to the risk profile of the Firm's credit portfolio and current economic conditions. As of December 31, 2005, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio, including those not yet identifiable).
As a result of the Merger, management modified its methodology for determining the Provision for credit losses for the combined Firm. The effect of conforming methodologies in 2004 was a decrease in the consumer allowance of $254 million and a decrease in the wholesale allowance (including both funded loans and lending-related commitments) of $330 million. In addition, the Bank One seller's interest in credit card securitizations was decertificated; this resulted in an increase to the provision for loan losses of approximately $1.4 billion (pre-tax) in 2004.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase maintains an allowance for credit losses as follows:
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for loan losses:
 
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for lending-related commitments:
 
Note 13  Loan securitizations
JPMorgan Chase securitizes, sells and services various consumer loans, such as consumer real estate, credit card and automobile loans, as well as certain wholesale loans (primarily real estate) originated by the Investment Bank. In addition, the Investment Bank purchases, packages and securitizes commercial and consumer loans. All IB activity is collectively referred to below as Wholesale activities. Interests in the sold and securitized loans may be retained.
The Firm records a loan securitization as a sale when the transferred loans are legally isolated from the Firm's creditors and the accounting criteria for a sale are met. Those criteria are (1) the assets are legally isolated from the Firm's creditors; (2) the entity can pledge or exchange the financial assets or, if the entity is a QSPE, its investors can pledge or exchange their interests; and (3) the Firm does not maintain effective control via an agreement to repurchase the assets before their maturity or have the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return the assets.
Gains or losses recorded on loan securitizations depend, in part, on the carrying amount of the loans sold and are allocated between the loans sold and the retained interests, based upon their relative fair values at the date of sale. Gains on securitizations are reported in noninterest revenue. Since quoted market prices are generally not available, the Firm usually estimates the fair value of these retained interests by determining the present value of future expected cash flows using modeling techniques. Such models incorporate management's best estimates of key variables, such as expected credit losses, prepayment speeds and the discount rates appropriate for the risks involved.
Retained interests that are subject to prepayment risk, such that JPMorgan Chase may not recover substantially all of its investment, are recorded at fair value; subsequent adjustments are reflected in Other comprehensive income or in earnings, if the fair value of the retained interest has declined below its carrying amount and such decline has been determined to be other-than-temporary.
Interests in the securitized loans are generally retained by the Firm in the form of senior or subordinated interest-only strips, subordinated tranches, escrow accounts and servicing rights, and they are generally recorded in Other assets. In addition, credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest in the trusts, representing the Firm's interests in the receivables transferred to the trust that have not been securitized. These interests are not represented by security certificates. The Firm's undivided interests are carried at historical cost and are classified in Loans. Retained interests from wholesale activities are reflected as trading assets.
JPMorgan Chase retains servicing responsibilities for all residential mortgage, credit card and automobile loan securitizations and for certain wholesale activity securitizations it sponsors, and receives servicing fees based on the securitized loan balance plus certain ancillary fees. The Firm also retains the right to service the residential mortgage loans it sells in connection with mortgage-backed securities transactions with the Government National Mortgage Association ("GNMA"), Federal National Mortgage Association ("FNMA") and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac"). For a discussion of mortgage servicing rights, see Note 15 on pages 114-116 of this Annual report.
JPMorgan Chase-sponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as part of the securitization process. These SPEs are structured to meet the definition of a QSPE (as discussed in Note 1 on page 91 of this Annual Report); accordingly, the assets and liabilities of securitization-related QSPEs are not reflected in the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets (except for retained interests, as described below) but are included on the balance sheet of the QSPE purchasing the
 
 
assets. Assets held by securitization-related SPEs as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows:
The following table summarizes new securitization transactions that were completed during 2005 and 2004, the resulting gains arising from such securitizations, certain cash flows received from such securitizations, and the key economic assumptions used in measuring the retained interests, as of the dates of such sales:
In addition to securitization transactions, the Firm sold residential mortgage loans totaling $52.5 billion, $65.7 billion and $123.2 billion during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, primarily as GNMA, FNMA and Freddie Mac mortgage-backed securities; these sales resulted in pre-tax gains of $293 million, $58.1 million and $564.3 million, respectively.
At both December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Firm had, with respect to its credit card master trusts, $24.8 billion and $35.2 billion, respectively, related to undivided interests, and $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, related to subordinated interests in accrued interest and fees on the securitized receivables, net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts. Credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest of 4% to 12% of the principal receivables in the trusts. The Firm maintained an average undivided interest in principal receivables in the trusts of approximately 23% for both 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits for some credit card and automobile securitizations, in the unlikely event of deficiencies in cash flows owed to investors. The amounts available in such escrow accounts are recorded in Other assets and, as of December 31, 2005, amounted to $754 million and $76 million for credit card and automobile securitizations, respectively; as of December 31, 2004, these amounts were $395 million and $132 million for credit card and automobile securitizations, respectively.
The table below summarizes other retained securitization interests, which are primarily subordinated or residual interests and are carried at fair value on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets:
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value of the other retained interests at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively; and it outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions:
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical. Changes in fair value based upon a 10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated easily, because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another assumption, which might counteract or magnify the sensitivities.
Expected static-pool net credit losses include actual incurred losses plus projected net credit losses, divided by the original balance of the outstandings comprising the securitization pool.
The table below displays the expected static-pool net credit losses for 2005, 2004 and 2003, based upon securitizations occurring in that year:
 
The table below presents information about delinquencies, net credit losses and components of reported and securitized financial assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004:
Note 14  Variable interest entities
Refer to Note 1 on page 91 of this Annual Report for a further description of JPMorgan Chase's policies regarding consolidation of variable interest entities.
JPMorgan Chase's principal involvement with VIEs occurs in the following business segments:
As noted above, there are two broad categories of transactions involving VIEs with which the IB is involved: multi-seller conduits and client intermediation. These categories are discussed more fully below.
Multi-seller conduits
The Firm is an active participant in the asset-backed securities business, helping meet customers' financing needs by providing access to the commercial paper markets through VIEs known as multi-seller conduits. These entities are separate bankruptcy-remote corporations in the business of purchasing interests in, and making loans secured by, receivable pools and other financial assets pursuant to agreements with customers. The entities fund their purchases and loans through the issuance of highly-rated commercial paper. The primary source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flow from the pools of assets.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase serves as the administrator and provides contingent liquidity support and limited credit enhancement for several multi-seller conduits. The commercial paper issued by the conduits is backed by collateral, credit enhancements and commitments to provide liquidity sufficient to support receiving at least a liquidity rating of A-1, P-1 and, in certain cases, F1.
As a means of ensuring timely repayment of the commercial paper, each asset pool financed by the conduits has a minimum 100% deal-specific liquidity facility associated with it. In the unlikely event an asset pool is removed from the conduit, the administrator can draw on the liquidity facility to repay the maturing commercial paper. The liquidity facilities are typically in the form of asset purchase agreements and are generally structured such that the bank liquidity is provided by purchasing, or lending against, a pool of non-defaulted, performing assets. Deal-specific liquidity is the primary source of liquidity support for the conduits.
Program-wide liquidity in the form of revolving and short-term lending commitments also is provided by the Firm to these vehicles in the event of short-term disruptions in the commercial paper market.
Deal-specific credit enhancement that supports the commercial paper issued by the conduits is generally structured to cover a multiple of historical losses expected on the pool of assets and is provided primarily by customers (i.e., sellers) or other third parties. The deal-specific credit enhancement is typically in the form of over-collateralization provided by the seller but also may include any combination of the following: recourse to the seller or originator, cash collateral accounts, letters of credit, excess spread, retention of subordinated interests or third-party guarantees. In certain instances, the Firm provides limited credit enhancement in the form of standby letters of credit.
The following table summarizes the Firm's involvement with Firm-administered multi-seller conduits:
The Firm views its credit exposure to multi-seller conduit transactions as limited. This is because, for the most part, the Firm is not required to fund under the liquidity facilities if the assets in the VIE are in default. Additionally, the Firm's obligations under the letters of credit are secondary to the risk of first loss provided by the customer or other third parties  for example, by the overcollateralization of the VIE with the assets sold to it or notes subordinated to the Firm's liquidity facilities.
Client intermediation
As a financial intermediary, the Firm is involved in structuring VIE transactions to meet investor and client needs. The Firm intermediates various types of risks (including fixed income, equity and credit), typically using derivative instruments as further discussed below. In certain circumstances, the Firm also provides liquidity and other support to the VIEs to facilitate the transaction. The Firm's current exposure to nonconsolidated VIEs is reflected in its Consolidated balance sheets or in the Notes to consolidated financial statements. The risks inherent in derivative instruments or liquidity commitments are managed similarly to other credit, market and liquidity risks to which the Firm is exposed. The Firm intermediates principally with the following types of VIEs: credit-linked note vehicles and municipal bond vehicles.
 
The Firm structures credit-linked notes in which the VIE purchases highly-rated assets (such as asset-backed securities) and enters into a credit derivative contract with the Firm to obtain exposure to a referenced credit not held by the VIE. Credit-linked notes are issued by the VIE to transfer the risk of the referenced credit to the investors in the VIE. Clients and investors often prefer a VIE structure, since the credit-linked notes generally carry a higher credit rating than they would if issued directly by JPMorgan Chase.
The Firm is involved with municipal bond vehicles for the purpose of creating a series of secondary market trusts that allow tax-exempt investors to finance their investments at short-term tax-exempt rates. The VIE purchases fixed-rate, longer-term highly-rated municipal bonds by issuing puttable floating-rate certificates and inverse floating-rate certificates; the investors in the inverse floating-rate certificates are exposed to the residual losses of the VIE (the "residual interests"). For vehicles in which the Firm owns the residual interests, the Firm consolidates the VIE. In vehicles where third-party investors own the residual interests, the Firm's exposure is limited because of the high credit quality of the underlying municipal bonds, the unwind triggers based upon the market value of the underlying collateral and the residual interests held by third parties. The Firm often serves as remarketing agent for the VIE and provides liquidity to support the remarketing.
Assets held by credit-linked and municipal bond vehicles at December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows:
Finally, the Firm may enter into transactions with VIEs structured by other parties. These transactions can include, for example, acting as a derivative counterparty, liquidity provider, investor, underwriter, placement agent, trustee or custodian. These transactions are conducted at arm's length, and individual credit decisions are based upon the analysis of the specific VIE, taking into consideration the quality of the underlying assets. JPMorgan Chase records and reports these positions similarly to any other third-party transaction. These activities do not cause JPMorgan Chase to absorb a majority of the expected losses of the VIEs or to receive a majority of the residual returns of the VIE, and they are not considered significant for disclosure purposes.
Consolidated VIE assets
The following table summarizes the Firm's total consolidated VIE assets, by classification on the Consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004:
Interests in purchased receivables include interests in receivables purchased by Firm-administered conduits, which have been consolidated in accordance with FIN 46R. Interests in purchased receivables are carried at cost and are reviewed to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment exists. Based upon the current level of credit protection specified in each transaction, primarily through overcollateralization, the Firm determined that no other-than-temporary impairment existed at December 31, 2005.
The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs are classified in the line item titled, "Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities" on the Consolidated balance sheets. The holders of these beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. See Note 17 on page 117 of this Annual Report for the maturity profile of FIN 46 long-term beneficial interests.
FIN 46R transition
In December 2003, the FASB issued a revision to FIN 46 ("FIN 46R") to address various technical corrections and implementation issues that had arisen since the issuance of FIN 46. Effective March 31, 2004, JPMorgan Chase implemented FIN 46R for all VIEs, excluding certain investments made by its private equity business, as previously discussed. Implementation of FIN 46R did not have a significant effect on the Firm's Consolidated financial statements.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Note 15  Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill is not amortized but instead tested for impairment in accordance with SFAS 142 at the reporting-unit segment, which is generally one level below the six major reportable business segments (as described in Note 31 on pages 130131 of this Annual Report); plus Private Equity (which is included in Corporate). Goodwill is tested annually (during the fourth quarter) or more often if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate there may be impairment. Intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The impairment test compares the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount. Other acquired intangible assets determined to have finite lives, such as core deposits and credit card relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives in a manner that best reflects the economic benefits of the intangible asset. In addition, impairment testing is performed periodically on these amortizing intangible assets.
Goodwill and other intangible assets consist of the following:
Goodwill
As of December 31, 2005, goodwill increased by $418 million compared with December 31, 2004, principally in connection with the establishment of the business partnership with Cazenove, as well as the acquisitions of Vastera, Neovest and the Sears Canada credit card business. These increases to Goodwill were partially offset by the deconsolidation of Paymentech. Goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2005 or 2004, nor was any goodwill written off due to impairment during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.
Goodwill attributed to the business segments was as follows:
Mortgage servicing rights
JPMorgan Chase recognizes as intangible assets mortgage servicing rights, which represent the right to perform specified residential mortgage servicing activities for others. MSRs are either purchased from third parties or retained upon sale or securitization of mortgage loans. Servicing activities include collecting principal, interest, and escrow payments from borrowers; making tax and insurance payments on behalf of the borrowers; monitoring delinquencies and executing foreclosure proceedings; and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to the investors of the mortgage-backed securities.
The amount capitalized as MSRs represents the amount paid to third parties to acquire MSRs or is based on fair value, if retained upon the sale or securitization of mortgage loans. The Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs using a discounted future cash flow model. The model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenues and costs to service, as well as other economic factors.
During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Firm enhanced its valuation of MSRs by utilizing an option-adjusted spread ("OAS") valuation approach. An OAS approach projects MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios in conjunction with the Firm's proprietary prepayment model, and then discounts these cash flows at risk-adjusted rates. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2005, MSRs were valued using cash flows and discount rates determined by a "static" or single interest rate path valuation model. The initial valuation of MSRs under OAS did not have a material impact on the Firm's financial statements.
The Firm compares fair value estimates and assumptions to observable market data where available and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience. Management believes that the assumptions used to estimate fair values are supportable and reasonable.
The Firm accounts for its MSRs at the lower of cost or fair value, in accordance with SFAS 140. MSRs are amortized as a reduction of the actual servicing income received in proportion to, and over the period of, the estimated future net servicing income stream of the underlying mortgage loans. For purposes of evaluating and measuring impairment of MSRs, the Firm stratifies the portfolio on the basis of the predominant risk characteristics, which are loan type and interest rate. Any indicated impairment is recognized as a reduction in revenue through a valuation allowance, which represents the extent that the carrying value of an individual stratum exceeds its estimated fair value.
 
The Firm evaluates other-than-temporary impairment by reviewing changes in mortgage and other market interest rates over historical periods and then determines an interest rate scenario to estimate the amounts of the MSRs' gross carrying value and the related valuation allowance that could be expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future. Any gross carrying value and related valuation allowance amounts that are not expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future, based upon the interest rate scenario, are considered to be other-than-temporary.
The carrying value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates, including their effect on prepayment speeds. JPMorgan Chase uses a combination of derivatives, AFS securities and trading instruments to manage changes in the fair value of MSRs. The intent is to offset any changes in the fair value of MSRs with changes in the fair value of the related risk management instrument. MSRs decrease in value when interest rates decline. Conversely, securities (such as mortgage-backed securities), principal-only certificates and derivatives (when the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments) decrease in value when interest rates increase. The Firm offsets the interest rate risk of its MSRs by designating certain derivatives (e.g., a combination of swaps, swaptions and floors that produces an interest rate profile opposite to the designated risk of the hedged MSRs) as fair value hedges of specified MSRs under SFAS 133. SFAS 133 hedge accounting allows the carrying value of the hedged MSRs to be adjusted through earnings in the same period that the change in value of the hedging derivatives is recognized through earnings. Both of these valuation adjustments are recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
When applying SFAS 133, the loans underlying the MSRs being hedged are stratified into specific SFAS 133 asset groupings that possess similar interest rate and prepayment risk exposures. The documented hedge period for the Firm is daily. Daily adjustments are performed to incorporate new or terminated derivative contracts and to modify the amount of the corresponding similar asset grouping that is being hedged. The Firm has designated changes in the benchmark interest rate (LIBOR) as the hedged risk. In designating the benchmark interest rate, the Firm considers the impact that the change in the benchmark rate has on the prepayment speed estimates in determining the fair value of the MSRs. The Firm performs both prospective and retrospective hedge-effectiveness evaluations, using a regression analysis, to determine whether the hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective. Hedge effectiveness is assessed by comparing the change in value of the MSRs as a result of changes in benchmark interest rates to the change in the value of the designated derivatives. For a further discussion on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 26 on page 123 of this Annual Report.
Securities (both AFS and Trading) also are used to manage the risk exposure of MSRs. Because these securities do not qualify as hedges under SFAS 133, they are accounted for under SFAS 115. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading securities are recognized in earnings in Mortgage fees and related income; interest income on the AFS securities is recognized in earnings in Net interest income; and unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities are reported in Other comprehensive income. Finally, certain nonhedge derivatives, which have not been designated by management in SFAS 133 hedge relationships, are used to manage the economic risk exposure of MSRs and are recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
Certain AFS securities purchased by the Firm to manage structural interest rate risk were designated in 2005 as risk management instruments of MSRs. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the unrealized loss on AFS securities used to manage the risk exposure of MSRs was $174 million and $3 million, respectively.
The following table summarizes MSR activity and related amortization for the dates indicated. It also includes the key assumptions and the sensitivity of the fair value of MSRs at December 31, 2005, to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in each of those assumptions.
CPR: Constant prepayment rate
CPR: Constant prepayment rate.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and should be used with caution. As the figures indicate, changes in fair value based upon a 10% and 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be easily extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
The valuation allowance represents the extent to which the carrying value of MSRs exceeds its estimated fair value for its applicable SFAS 140 strata. Changes in the valuation allowance are the result of the recognition of impairment or the recovery of previously recognized impairment charges due to changes in market conditions during the period. The changes in the valuation allowance for MSRs were as follows:
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The Firm recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of its MSRs of $1 million, $149 million and $283 million, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which permanently reduced the gross carrying value of the MSRs and the related valuation allowance. The permanent reduction precludes subsequent reversals. This write-down had no impact on the results of operations or financial condition of the Firm.
Purchased credit card relationships and All other intangible assets
During 2005, purchased credit card relationship intangibles decreased by $603 million as a result of $703 million in amortization expense, partially offset by the purchase of the Sears Canada credit card business. All other intangible assets decreased by $894 million in 2005 primarily as a result of $836 million in amortization expense and the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech. Except for $513 million of indefinite-lived intangibles related to asset management advisory contracts which are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually, the remainder of the Firm's other acquired intangible assets are subject to amortization.
The components of credit card relationships, core deposits and other intangible assets were as follows:
Future amortization expense
The following table presents estimated amortization expenses related to credit card relationships, core deposits and All other intangible assets at December 31, 2005:
Note 16  Premises and equipment
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. JPMorgan Chase computes depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of an asset. For leasehold improvements, the Firm uses the straight-line method computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or 10 years. JPMorgan Chase has recorded immaterial asset retirement obligations related to asbestos remediation under SFAS 143 and FIN 47 in those cases where it has sufficient information to estimate the obligations' fair value.
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisition or development of internal-use software under SOP 98-1. Once the software is ready for its intended use, these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the software's expected useful life, and reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis.
 
Note 17  Long-term debt
JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies, although predominantly U.S. dollars, with both fixed and variable interest rates. The following table is a summary of long-term debt (including unamortized original issue debt discount and SFAS 133 valuation adjustments):
By remaining contractual maturity at December 31, 2005
The weighted-average contractual interest rate for total long-term debt was 4.62% and 4.50% as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In order to modify exposure to interest rate and currency exchange rate movements, JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instruments, primarily interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps, in conjunction with some of its debt issues. The use of these instruments modifies the Firm's interest expense on the associated debt. The modified weighted-average interest rate for total long-term debt, including the effects of related derivative instruments, was 4.65% and 3.97% as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (Parent Company) has guaranteed certain debt of its subsidiaries, including both long-term debt and structured notes sold as part of the Firm's trading activities. These guarantees rank on a parity with all of the Firm's other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. Guaranteed liabilities totaled $170 million and $320 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities
At December 31, 2005, the Firm had 22 wholly-owned Delaware statutory business trusts ("issuer trusts") that issued guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the Firm's junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures.
The junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the Firm to the issuer trusts, totaling $11.5 billion and $10.3 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were reflected in the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets in the Liabilities section under the caption "Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities." The Firm also records the common capital securities issued by the issuer trusts in Other assets in its Consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the Firm, less the capital securities of the issuer trusts, qualify as Tier 1 capital. The following is a summary of the outstanding capital securities, net of discount, issued by each trust and the junior subordinated deferrable interest debenture issued by JPMorgan Chase to each trust as of December 31, 2005:
Note 18  Preferred stock
JPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 200 million shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, with a par value of $1 per share. Outstanding preferred stock at December 31, 2005 and 2004, was 280,433 and 4.28 million shares, respectively. On May 6, 2005, JPMorgan Chase redeemed a total of 4.0 million shares of its Fixed/adjustable rate, noncumulative preferred stock.
Dividends on shares of the outstanding series of preferred stock are payable quarterly. The preferred stock outstanding takes precedence over JPMorgan Chase's common stock for the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Firm.
The following is a summary of JPMorgan Chase's preferred stock outstanding as of December 31:
 
Note 19  Common stock
At December 31, 2005, JPMorgan Chase was authorized to issue 9.0 billion shares of common stock with a $1 par value per share. In connection with the Merger, the shareholders approved an increase in the amount of authorized shares of 4.5 billion from the 4.5 billion that had been authorized as of December 31, 2003. Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from treasury) by JPMorgan Chase during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows:
During 2005 and 2004, the Firm repurchased 93.5 million shares and 19.3 million shares, respectively, of common stock under a stock repurchase program that was approved by the Board of Directors on July 20, 2004. The Firm did not repurchase shares of its common stock during 2003 under a prior stock repurchase program.
As of December 31, 2005, approximately 507 million unissued shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under various employee or director incentive, compensation, option and stock purchase plans.
Note 20  Earnings per share
SFAS 128 requires the presentation of basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") in the income statement. Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income applicable to common stock by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS is computed using the same method as basic EPS but, in the denominator, the number of common shares reflect, in addition to outstanding shares, the potential dilution that could occur if convertible securities or other contracts to issue common stock were converted or exercised into common stock. Net income available for common stock is the same for basic EPS and diluted EPS, as JPMorgan Chase had no convertible securities, and therefore, no adjustments to net income available for common stock were necessary. The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for 2005, 2004 and 2003:
Note 21  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) includes the after-tax change in unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities, cash flow hedging activities and foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of related derivatives).
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The following table presents the after-tax changes in net unrealized holdings gains (losses) and the reclassification adjustments in unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities and cash flow hedges. Reclassification adjustments include amounts recognized in net income during the current year that had been previously recorded in Other comprehensive income.
Note 22  Income taxes
JPMorgan Chase and eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. JPMorgan Chase uses the asset-and-liability method required by SFAS 109 to provide income taxes on all transactions recorded in the Consolidated financial statements. This method requires that income taxes reflect the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for book and tax purposes. Accordingly, a deferred tax liability or asset for each temporary difference is determined based upon the tax rates that the Firm expects to be in effect when the underlying items of income and expense are realized. JPMorgan Chase's expense for income taxes includes the current and deferred portions of that expense. A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the Firm expects to realize.
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of the Firm's businesses, and from conducting business and being taxed in a substantial number of jurisdictions, significant judgments and estimates are required to be made. Agreement of tax liabilities between JPMorgan Chase and the many tax jurisdictions in which the Firm files tax returns may not be finalized for several years. Thus, the Firm's final tax-related assets and liabilities may ultimately be different.
Deferred income tax expense (benefit) results from differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting and for income-tax return purposes. The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected in the following table:
A valuation allowance has been recorded in accordance with SFAS 109, primarily relating to deferred tax assets associated with certain portfolio investments.
The components of income tax expense from continuing operations included in the Consolidated statements of income were as follows:
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effects of unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities, SFAS 133 hedge transactions and certain tax benefits associated with the Firm's employee stock plans. The tax effect of these items is recorded directly in Stockholders' equity. Stockholders' equity increased by $425 million, $431 million and $898 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, as a result of these tax effects.
U.S. federal income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time. For 2005, such earnings approximated $333 million on a pre-tax basis. At December 31, 2005, the cumulative amount of undistributed pre-tax earnings in these subsidiaries approximated $1.5 billion. It is not practicable at this time to determine the income tax liability that would result upon repatriation of these earnings.
 
On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") was signed into law. The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. companies to repatriate accumulated foreign earnings at a substantially reduced U.S. effective tax rate by providing a dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings to the U.S. taxpayer (the "repatriation provision"). The new deduction is subject to a number of limitations and requirements.
In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Firm applied the repatriation provision to $1.9 billion of cash from foreign earnings, resulting in a net tax benefit of $55 million. The $1.9 billion of cash will be used in accordance with the Firm's domestic reinvestment plan pursuant to the guidelines set forth in the Act.
The tax expense (benefit) applicable to securities gains and losses for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $(536) million, $126 million and $477 million, respectively.
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S. income tax rate to the effective tax rate applicable to income for continuing operations for the past three years is shown in the following table:
The following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S. components of income before income tax expense from continuing operations:
Note 23  Restrictions on cash and intercompany funds transfers
JPMorgan Chase Bank's business is subject to examination and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"). The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and its deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC").
The Federal Reserve Board requires depository institutions to maintain cash reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank. The average amount of reserve balances deposited by the Firm's bank subsidiaries with various Federal Reserve Banks was approximately $2.7 billion in 2005 and $3.8 billion in 2004.
Restrictions imposed by federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase and certain other affiliates from borrowing from banking subsidiaries unless the loans are secured in specified amounts. Such secured loans to the Firm or to other affiliates are generally limited to 10% of the banking subsidiary's total capital, as determined by the risk-based capital guidelines; the aggregate amount of all such loans is limited to 20% of the banking subsidiary's total capital.
The principal sources of JPMorgan Chase's income (on a parent company-only basis) are dividends and interest from JPMorgan Chase Bank and the other banking and nonbanking subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase. In addition to dividend restrictions set forth in statutes and regulations, the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC have authority under the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies, if, in the banking regulator's opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.
At January 1, 2006 and 2005, JPMorgan Chase's bank subsidiaries could pay, in the aggregate, $7.4 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively, in dividends to their respective bank holding companies without prior approval of their relevant banking regulators. Dividend capacity in 2006 will be supplemented by the banks' earnings during the year.
In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S. and non-U.S. regulators, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, cash in the amount of $6.4 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, and securities with a fair value of $2.1 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, were segregated in special bank accounts for the benefit of securities and futures brokerage customers.
Note 24  Capital
There are two categories of risk-based capital: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital includes common stockholders' equity, qualifying preferred stock and minority interest less goodwill and other adjustments. Tier 2 capital consists of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1, subordinated long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2, and the aggregate allowance for credit losses up to a certain percentage of risk-weighted assets. Total regulatory capital is subject to deductions for investments in certain subsidiaries. Under the risk-based capital guidelines of the FRB, JPMorgan Chase is required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets, as well as minimum leverage ratios (which are defined as Tier 1 capital to average adjusted onbalance sheet assets). Failure to meet these minimum requirements could cause the FRB to take action. Bank subsidiaries also are subject to these capital requirements by their respective primary regulators. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, JPMorgan Chase and all of its banking subsidiaries were well-capitalized and met all capital requirements to which each was subject.
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and the Firm's significant banking subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and 2004:
The following table shows the components of the Firm's Tier 1 and Total capital:
Note 25  Commitments and contingencies
At December 31, 2005, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes. Certain leases contain renewal options or escalation clauses providing for increased rental payments based upon maintenance, utility and tax increases or require the Firm to perform restoration work on leased premises. No lease agreement imposes restrictions on the Firm's ability to pay dividends, engage in debt or equity financing transactions, or enter into further lease agreements.
The following table shows required future minimum rental payments under operating leases with noncancelable lease terms that expire after December 31, 2005:
Total rental expense was as follows:
At December 31, 2005, assets were pledged to secure public deposits and for other purposes. The significant components of the assets pledged were as follows:
 
Litigation reserve
The Firm maintains litigation reserves for certain of its litigations, including its material legal proceedings. While the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain, management believes, in light of all information known to it at December 31, 2005, that the Firm's litigation reserves were adequate at such date. Management reviews litigation reserves periodically, and the reserves may be increased or decreased in the future to reflect further litigation developments. The Firm believes it has meritorious defenses to claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding litigation and, with respect to such litigation, intends to continue to defend itself vigorously, litigating or settling cases according to management's judgment as to what is in the best interest of stockholders.
Note 26  Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities
Derivative instruments enable end users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or market risks. The value of a derivative is derived from its reference to an underlying variable or combination of variables such as equity, foreign exchange, credit, commodity or interest rate prices or indices. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives for customers and also is an end-user of derivatives in order to manage the Firm's exposure to credit and market risks.
SFAS 133, as amended by SFAS 138 and SFAS 149, establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including those used for trading and hedging activities, and derivative instruments embedded in other contracts. All free-standing derivatives, whether designated for hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in value of a derivative depends on whether the contract is for trading purposes or has been designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. The majority of the Firm's derivatives are entered into for trading purposes. The Firm also uses derivatives as an end user to hedge market exposures, modify the interest rate characteristics of related balance sheet instruments or meet longer-term investment objectives. Both trading and end-user derivatives are recorded at fair value in Trading assets and Trading liabilities as set forth in Note 3 on page 94 of this Annual Report.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be considered highly effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being hedged. Each derivative must be designated as a hedge, with documentation of the risk management objective and strategy, including identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item and the risk exposure, and how effectiveness is to be assessed prospectively and retrospectively. The extent to which a hedging instrument is effective at achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows must be assessed at least quarterly. Any ineffectiveness must be reported in current-period earnings.
For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item for the risk being hedged are recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is terminated, then the fair value adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortized to earnings as a yield adjustment. For qualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded in Other comprehensive income and recognized in the income statement when the hedged cash flows affect earnings. The ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are immediately recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is terminated, then the change in fair value of the derivative recorded in Other comprehensive income is recognized when the cash flows that were hedged occur, consistent with the original hedge strategy. For hedge relationships discontinued because the forecasted transaction is not expected to occur according to the original strategy, any related derivative amounts recorded in Other comprehensive income are immediately recognized in earnings. For qualifying net investment hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative or the revaluation of the foreign currencydenominated debt instrument are recorded in the translation adjustments account within Other comprehensive income. Any ineffective portions of net investment hedges are immediately recognized in earnings.
JPMorgan Chase's fair value hedges primarily include hedges of fixed-rate long-term debt, loans, AFS securities and MSRs. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative contract used to modify exposure to interest rate risk, converting fixed-rate assets and liabilities to a floating rate. Interest rate options, swaptions and forwards are also used in combination with interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value of the Firm's MSRs. For a further discussion of MSR risk management activities, see Note 15 on pages 114116 of this Annual Report. All amounts have been included in earnings consistent with the classification of the hedged item, primarily Net interest income, Mortgage fees and related income, and Other income. The Firm did not recognize any gains or losses during 2005 on firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
JPMorgan Chase also enters into derivative contracts to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows from floating-rate financial instruments and forecasted transactions, primarily the rollover of short-term assets and liabilities, and foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses. Interest rate swaps, futures and forward contracts are the most common instruments used to reduce the impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate changes on future earnings. All amounts affecting earnings have been recognized consistent with the classification of the hedged item, primarily Net interest income.
The Firm uses forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency-denominated debt instruments to protect the value of net investments in foreign currencies in non-U.S. subsidiaries. The portion of the hedging instruments excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (forward points) is recorded in Net interest income.
The following table presents derivative instrument hedging-related activities for the periods indicated:
Over the next 12 months, it is expected that $44 million (after-tax) of net gains recorded in Other comprehensive income at December 31, 2005, will be recognized in earnings. The maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is 10 years, and such transactions primarily relate to core lending and borrowing activities.
JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of the Firm's economic hedges. For example, the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to standard credit derivatives used to manage the credit risk of loans and commitments because of the difficulties in qualifying such contracts as hedges under SFAS 133. Similarly, the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to certain interest rate derivatives used as economic hedges.
 
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Note 27  Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment or the Firm fulfills its obligation under the guarantee, and the counterparty subsequently fails to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees expire without a default occurring or without being drawn. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm's view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. Further, certain commitments, primarily related to consumer financings, are cancelable, upon notice, at the option of the Firm.
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in wholesale-related contracts, an allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments is maintained. See Note 12 on pages 107108 of this Annual Report for a further discussion on the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments.
The following table summarizes the contractual amounts of offbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees and the related allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments at December 31, 2005 and 2004:
Offbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
FIN 45 establishes accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, requiring that a guarantor recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability in an amount equal to the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. FIN 45 defines a guarantee as a contract that contingently requires the Firm to pay a guaranteed party, based upon: (a) changes in an underlying asset, liability or equity security of the guaranteed party; or (b) a third party's failure to perform under a specified agreement. The Firm considers the following offbalance sheet lending arrangements to be guarantees under FIN 45: certain asset purchase agreements, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees, securities lending indemnifications, certain indemnification agreements included within third-party contractual arrangements and certain derivative contracts. These guarantees are described in further detail below.
The fair value at inception of the obligation undertaken when issuing the guarantees and commitments that qualify under FIN 45 is typically equal to the net present value of the future amount of premium receivable under the contract. The Firm has recorded this amount in Other Liabilities with an offsetting entry recorded in Other Assets. As cash is received under the contract, it is applied to the premium receivable recorded in Other Assets, and the fair value of the liability recorded at inception is amortized into income as Lending & deposit related fees over the life of the guarantee contract. The amount of the liability related to FIN 45 guarantees recorded at December 31, 2005 and 2004, excluding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments and derivative contracts discussed below, was approximately $313 million and $341 million, respectively.
Unfunded commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend only when a customer has complied with predetermined conditions, and they generally expire on fixed dates.
The majority of the Firm's unfunded commitments are not guarantees as defined in FIN 45, except for certain asset purchase agreements that are principally used as a mechanism to provide liquidity to SPEs, primarily multi-seller conduits, as described in Note 14 on pages 111113 of this Annual Report. Some of these asset purchase agreements can be exercised at any time by the SPE's administrator, while others require a triggering event to occur. Triggering events include, but are not limited to, a need for liquidity, a market value decline of the assets or a downgrade in the rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank. These agreements may cause the Firm to purchase an asset from the SPE at an amount above the asset's fair value, in effect providing a guarantee of the initial value of the reference asset as of the date of the agreement. In most instances, third-party credit enhancements of the SPE mitigate the Firm's potential losses on these agreements.
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees are conditional lending commitments issued by JPMorgan Chase to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party under certain arrangements, such as commercial paper facilities, bond financings, acquisition financings, trade and similar transactions. Approximately 58% of these arrangements mature within three years. The Firm typically has recourse to recover from the customer any amounts paid under these guarantees; in addition, the Firm may hold cash or other highly liquid collateral to support these guarantees. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Firm held collateral relating to $9.0 billion and $7.4 billion, respectively, of these arrangements.
 
 
The Firm holds customers' securities under custodial arrangements. At times, these securities are loaned to third parties, and the Firm issues securities lending indemnification agreements to the customer that protect the customer against the risk of loss if the third party fails to return the securities. To support these indemnification agreements, the Firm obtains from the third party cash or other highly liquid collateral with a market value exceeding 100% of the value of the loaned securities. If the third-party borrower fails to return the securities, the Firm would use the collateral to purchase the securities in the market and would be exposed if the value of the collateral fell below 100%. The Firm invests third-party cash collateral received in support of the indemnification agreements. In a few cases where the cash collateral is invested in resale agreements, the Firm indemnifies the third party against reinvestment risk. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Firm held $245.0 billion and $221.6 billion, respectively, in collateral in support of securities lending indemnification arrangements. Based upon historical experience, management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
In connection with issuing securities to investors, the Firm may enter into contractual arrangements with third parties that may require the Firm to make a payment to them in the event of a change in tax law or an adverse interpretation of tax law. In certain cases, the contract may also include a termination clause, which would allow the Firm to settle the contract at its fair value; thus, such a clause would not require the Firm to make a payment under the indemnification agreement. Even without the termination clause, management does not expect such indemnification agreements to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of JPMorgan Chase. The Firm may also enter into indemnification clauses when it sells a business or assets to a third party, pursuant to which it indemnifies that third party for losses it may incur due to actions taken by the Firm prior to the sale. See below for more information regarding the Firm's loan securitization activities. It is difficult to estimate the Firm's maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements, since this would require an assessment of future changes in tax law and future claims that may be made against the Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based upon historical experience, management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
As part of the Firm's loan securitization activities, as described in Note 13 on pages 108111 of this Annual Report, the Firm provides representations and warranties that certain securitized loans meet specific requirements. The Firm may be required to repurchase the loans and/or indemnify the purchaser of the loans against losses due to any breaches of such representations or warranties. Generally, the maximum amount of future payments the Firm would be required to make under such repurchase and/or indemnification provisions would be equal to the current amount of assets held by such securitization-related SPEs as of December 31, 2005, plus, in certain circumstances, accrued and unpaid interest on such loans and certain expenses. The potential loss due to such repurchase and/or indemnity is mitigated by the due diligence the Firm performs before the sale to ensure that the assets comply with the requirements set forth in the representations and warranties. Historically, losses incurred on such repurchases and/or indemnifications have been insignificant, and therefore management expects the risk of material loss to be remote.
The Firm is a partner with one of the leading companies in electronic payment services in a joint venture operating under the name of Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC (the "joint venture"). The joint venture was formed in October 2005 as a result of an agreement to integrate the Firm's jointly-owned Chase Merchant Services ("CMS") and Paymentech merchant businesses, the latter of which was acquired as a result of the Merger. The joint venture provides merchant processing services in the United States and Canada. The joint venture is liable contingently for processed credit card sales transactions in the event of a dispute between the cardmember and a merchant. If a dispute is resolved in the cardmember's favor, the joint venture will credit or refund the amount to the cardmember and charge back the transaction to the merchant. If the joint venture is unable to collect the amount from the merchant, the joint venture will bear the loss for the amount credited or refunded to the cardmember. The joint venture mitigates this risk by withholding settlement, or by obtaining escrow deposits or letters of credit from certain merchants. However, in the unlikely event that: 1) a merchant ceases operations and is unable to deliver products, services or a refund; 2) the joint venture does not have sufficient collateral from the merchants to provide customer refunds; and 3) the joint venture does not have sufficient financial resources to provide customer refunds, the Firm would be liable to refund the cardholder in proportion to its approximate equity interest in the joint venture. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the joint venture, along with the integrated businesses of CMS and Paymentech, incurred aggregate credit losses of $11 million on $563 billion of aggregate volume processed, of which the Firm shared liability only on $200 billion of aggregate volume processed. At December 31, 2005, the joint venture held $909 million of collateral. In 2004, the CMS and Paymentech ventures incurred aggregate credit losses of $7.1 million on $396 billion of aggregate volume processed, of which the Firm shared liability only on $205 billion of aggregate volume processed. At December 31, 2004, the CMS and Paymentech ventures held $620 million of collateral. The Firm believes that, based upon historical experience and the collateral held by the joint venture, the fair value of the guarantee would not be different materially from the credit loss allowance recorded by the joint venture; therefore, the Firm has not recorded any allowance for losses in excess of the allowance recorded by the joint venture.
The Firm is a member of several securities and futures exchanges and clearing-houses both in the United States and overseas. Membership in some of these organizations requires the Firm to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by the organization as a result of the default of another member. Such obligation varies with different organizations. It may be limited to members who dealt with the defaulting member or to the amount (or a multiple of the amount) of the Firm's contribution to a members' guaranty fund, or, in a few cases, it may be unlimited. It is difficult to estimate the Firm's maximum exposure under these membership agreements, since this would require an assessment of future claims that may be made against the Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based upon historical experience, management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
In addition to the contracts described above, there are certain derivative contracts to which the Firm is a counterparty that meet the characteristics of a guarantee under FIN 45. These derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value. These contracts include written put options that require the Firm to purchase assets from the option holder at a specified price by a specified date in the future, as well as derivatives that effectively guarantee the return on a counterparty's reference portfolio of assets. The total notional value of the derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees was $62 billion and $53 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Firm reduces exposures to these contracts by entering into offsetting transactions or by entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related to these contracts. The fair value related to these contracts was a derivative receivable of $198 million and $180 million, and a derivative payable of $767 million and $622 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Finally, certain written put options and credit derivatives permit cash settlement and do not require the option holder or the buyer of credit protection to own the reference asset. The Firm does not consider these contracts to be guarantees as described in FIN 45.
 
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Note 28  Credit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers are engaged in similar business activities or activities in the same geographic region, or when they have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of the credit risk portfolio to assess potential concentration risks and to obtain collateral when deemed necessary. In the Firm's wholesale portfolio, risk concentrations are evaluated primarily by industry and by geographic region. In the consumer portfolio, concentrations are evaluated primarily by product and by U.S. geographic region.
The Firm does not believe exposure to any one loan product with varying terms (e.g., interest-only payments for an introductory period) or exposure to loans with high loan-to-value ratios would result in a significant concentration of credit risk. Terms of loan products and collateral coverage are included in the Firm's assessment when extending credit and establishing its allowance for loan losses.
For further information regarding onbalance sheet credit concentrations by major product and geography, see Note 11 on page 106 of this Annual Report. For information regarding concentrations of offbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments by major product, see Note 27 on page 124 of this Annual Report. More information about concentrations can be found in the following tables or discussion in the MD&A:
The table below presents both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet wholesale- and consumer-related credit exposure as of December 31, 2005 and 2004:
Note 29  Fair value of financial instruments
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The accounting for an asset or liability may differ based upon the type of instrument and/or its use in a trading or investing strategy. Generally, the measurement framework in the consolidated financial statements is one of the following:
The Firm has an established and well-documented process for determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair value is based upon internally-developed models that primarily use market-based or independent information as inputs to the valuation model. Valuation adjustments may be necessary to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value. These adjustments include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality, liquidity and concentration concerns and are based upon defined methodologies that are applied consistently over time.
 
 
Valuation adjustments are determined based upon established policies and are controlled by a price verification group independent of the risk-taking function. Economic substantiation of models, prices, market inputs and revenue through price/input testing, as well as backtesting, is done to validate the appropriateness of the valuation methodology. Any changes to the valuation methodology are reviewed by management to ensure the changes are justified.
The methods described above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. Furthermore, the use of different methodologies to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date.
Certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are excluded from the scope of SFAS 107. Accordingly, the fair value disclosures required by SFAS 107 provide only a partial estimate of the fair value of JPMorgan Chase. For example, the Firm has developed long-term relationships with its customers through its deposit base and credit card accounts, commonly referred to as core deposit intangibles and credit card relationships. In the opinion of management, these items, in the aggregate, add significant value to JPMorgan Chase, but their fair value is not disclosed in this Note.
The following items describe the methodologies and assumptions used, by financial instrument, to determine fair value.
Financial assets
Assets for which fair value approximates carrying value
The Firm considers fair values of certain financial assets carried at cost  including cash and due from banks, deposits with banks, securities borrowed, short-term receivables and accrued interest receivable  to approximate their respective carrying values, due to their short-term nature and generally negligible credit risk.
Assets where fair value differs from cost
The Firm's debt, equity and derivative trading instruments are carried at their estimated fair value. Quoted market prices, when available, are used to determine the fair value of trading instruments. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of instruments with similar characteristics, or discounted cash flows.
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements are typically short-term in nature and, as such, for a significant majority of the Firm's transactions, cost approximates carrying value. This balance sheet item also includes structured resale agreements and similar products with long-dated maturities. To estimate the fair value of these instruments, cash flows are discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity.
Securities
Fair values of actively traded securities are determined by the secondary market, while the fair values for nonactively traded securities are based upon independent broker quotations.
Derivatives
Fair value for derivatives is determined based upon the following:
For those derivatives valued based upon models with significant unobservable market parameters, the Firm defers the initial trading profit for these financial instruments. The deferred profit is recognized in Trading revenue on a systematic basis (typically straight-line amortization over the life of the instruments) and when observable market data becomes available.
The fair value of derivative payables does not incorporate a valuation adjustment to reflect JPMorgan Chase's credit quality.
Interests in purchased receivables
The fair value of variable-rate interests in purchased receivables approximate their respective carrying amounts due to their variable interest terms and negligible credit risk. The estimated fair values for fixed-rate interests in purchased receivables are determined using a discounted cash flow analysis using appropriate market rates for similar instruments.
Loans
Fair value for loans is determined using methodologies suitable for each type of loan:
 
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Other assets
Commodities inventory is carried at the lower of cost or fair value. For the majority of commodities inventory, fair value is determined by reference to prices in highly active and liquid markets. The fair value for other commodities inventory is determined primarily using pricing and other data derived from less liquid and developing markets where the underlying commodities are traded. This caption also includes private equity investments and MSRs. For a discussion of the fair value methodology for private equity investments, see Note 9 on page 105 of this Annual Report.
For a discussion of the fair value methodology for MSRs, see Note 15 on pages 114116 of this Annual Report.
Financial liabilities
Liabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value
SFAS 107 requires that the fair value for deposit liabilities with no stated maturity (i.e., demand, savings and certain money market deposits) be equal to their carrying value. SFAS 107 does not allow for the recognition of the inherent funding value of these instruments.
Fair value of commercial paper, other borrowed funds, accounts payable and accrued liabilities is considered to approximate their respective carrying values due to their short-term nature.
Interest-bearing deposits
Fair values of interest-bearing deposits are estimated by discounting cash flows based upon the remaining contractual maturities of funds having similar interest rates and similar maturities.
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements are typically short-term in nature; as such, for a significant majority of these transactions, cost approximates carrying value. This balance sheet item also includes structured repurchase agreements and similar products with long-dated maturities. To estimate the fair value of these instruments, the cash flows are discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs ("beneficial interests") are generally short-term in nature and, as such, for a significant majority of the Firm's transactions, cost approximates carrying value. The Consolidated balance sheets also include beneficial interests with long-dated maturities. The fair value of these instruments is based upon current market rates.
Long-term debt-related instruments
Fair value for long-term debt, including the junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities, is based upon current market rates and is adjusted for JPMorgan Chase's credit quality.
Lending-related commitments
Although there is no liquid secondary market for wholesale commitments, the Firm estimates the fair value of its wholesale lending-related commitments primarily using the cost of credit derivatives (which is adjusted to account for the difference in recovery rates between bonds, upon which the cost of credit derivatives is based, and loans) and loan equivalents (which represent the portion of an unused commitment expected, based upon the Firm's average portfolio historical experience, to become outstanding in the event an obligor defaults). The Firm estimates the fair value of its consumer commitments to extend credit based upon the primary market prices to originate new commitments. It is the change in current primary market prices that provides the estimate of the fair value of these commitments. On this basis, at December 31, 2005, the estimated fair value of the Firm's lending-related commitments was a liability of $0.5 billion, compared with $0.1 billion at December 31, 2004.
The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of financial assets and liabilities valued under SFAS 107; accordingly, certain assets and liabilities that are not considered financial instruments are excluded from the table.
 
 
Note 30  International operations
The following table presents income statement information of JPMorgan Chase by major geographic area. The Firm defines international activities as business transactions that involve customers residing outside of the United States, and the information presented below is based primarily upon the domicile of the customer. However, many of the Firm's U.S. operations serve international businesses.
As the Firm's operations are highly integrated, estimates and subjective assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and expense between U.S. and international operations. These estimates and assumptions are consistent with the allocations used for the Firm's segment reporting as set forth in Note 31 on pages 130131 of this Annual Report.
The Firm's long-lived assets for the periods presented are not considered by management to be significant in relation to total assets. The majority of the Firm's long-lived assets are located in the United States.
 
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Note 31  Business segments
JPMorgan Chase is organized into six major reportable business segments (the Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management), as well as a Corporate segment. The segments are based upon the products and services provided or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on an operating basis. For a definition of operating basis, see the footnotes to the table below. For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan Chase's business segments, see Business segment results on pages 3435 of this Annual Report.
In the third quarter of 2004, in connection with the Merger, business segment reporting was realigned to reflect the new business structure of the combined Firm. Treasury was transferred from the Investment Bank into Corporate. The segment formerly known as Chase Financial Services had been comprised of Chase Home Finance, Chase Cardmember Services, Chase Auto Finance, Chase Regional Banking and Chase Middle Market; as a result of the Merger, this segment is now called Retail Financial Services and is comprised of Home Finance, Auto & Education Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking and Insurance. Chase Cardmember Services is now its own segment called Card Services, and Chase Middle Market moved into Commercial Banking. Investment Management & Private Banking was renamed Asset & Wealth Management. JPMorgan Partners, which formerly was a stand-alone business segment, was moved into Corporate. Corporate currently comprises Private
(table continued on next page)
Segment results and reconciliation
(a)
 
Equity (JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners) and Treasury, and the corporate support areas, which include Central Technology and Operations, Audit, Executive Office, Finance, Human Resources, Marketing & Communications, Office of the General Counsel, Corporate Real Estate and General Services, Risk Management, and Strategy and Development. Beginning January 1, 2006, TSS will report results for two divisions: TS and WSS. WSS was formed by consolidating IS and ITS.
The following table provides a summary of the Firm's segment results for 2005, 2004 and 2003 on an operating basis. The impact of credit card securitizations, Merger costs, nonoperating Litigation reserve charges and accounting policy conformity adjustments have been included in Corporate/reconciling items so that the total Firm results are on a reported basis. Finally, commencing with the first quarter of 2005, operating revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits are presented in the operating results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This approach allows management to assess the comparability of revenues arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense. The Corporate sector's and the Firm's operating revenue and income tax expense for the periods prior to the first quarter of 2005 have been restated to be presented similarly on a tax-equivalent basis. This restatement had no impact on the Corporate sector's or the Firm's operating earnings. Segment results for periods prior to July 1, 2004, reflect heritage JPMorgan Chaseonly results and have been restated to reflect the current business segment organization and reporting classifications.
(table continued from previous page)
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Note 32  Parent company
Parent company  statements of income
Parent company  balance sheets
Parent company  statements of cash flows
 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Note 33Subsequent events
Discontinued operations
The pending transfer of certain of the corporate trust businesses to The Bank of New York (see Note 2 on page 93 of this Annual Report) includes the trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses. JPMorgan Chase expects to recognize an after-tax gain of approximately $600-$700 million. The results of operations of such corporate trust businesses have been transferred from the Treasury & Securities Services ("TSS") business to the Corporate segment, and are currently reported as discontinued operations. Condensed results of operations of the corporate trust business follows:
In connection with the above-mentioned exchange of the corporate trust businesses, JPMorgan Chase will transfer to The Bank of New York on the closing date certain customer assets and liabilities; however, JPMorgan Chase has not reclassified any assets or liabilities of discontinued operations held-for-sale in the Consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and 2004.
JPMorgan Chase will provide certain transitional services to The Bank of New York for a defined period of time after the closing date. The Bank of New York will compensate JPMorgan Chase for these transitional services.
Business segment changes
Effective January 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase modified certain of its financial disclosures to reflect more closely the manner in which the Firm's business segments are managed and to provide improved comparability with competitors. Among these changes were "client transfers," which reflected the transfer of various wholesale banking clients, together with the related revenue and expense, among CB, the IB and TSS. The business segment information in Note 31 on page 130 of this Annual Report has been revised from how this information was previously presented to reflect the client transfers retroactive to January 1, 2005. The financial information for periods prior to January 1, 2005, was not revised as the Firm has determined it was not practical to reflect those client transfers in the earlier periods.
 
Supplementary information
Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)
 
Glossary of terms
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Automated Clearing House.
ACH:
Accounting Principles Board Opinion.
APB:
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."
APB 25:
Represent assets actively managed by Asset & Wealth Management on behalf of institutional, private banking, private client services and retail clients. Excludes assets managed by American Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 43% ownership interest.
Assets under management:
Represent assets under management as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Assets under supervision:
Refers to total assets on the Firm's balance sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Average managed assets:
In accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bankruptcy, whichever is earlier.
Contractual credit card charge-off:
U.S. deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, up to the legal limit of $100,000 per depositor.
Core deposits:
are contractual agreements that provide protection against a credit event of one or more referenced credits. The nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer and protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, insolvency and failure to meet payment obligations when due. The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a credit event.
Credit derivatives
a period of time over which credit quality improves, deteriorates and then improves again. While portfolios may differ in terms of risk, the credit cycle is typically driven by many factors, including market events and the economy. The duration of a credit cycle can vary from a couple of years to several years.
Credit cycle:
A component of an entity that is classified as held-for-sale or that has been disposed of from ongoing operations in its entirety or piecemeal, and for which the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement. A discontinued operation may be a separate major business segment, a component of a major business segment or a geographical area of operations of the entity that can be separately distinguished operationally and for financial reporting purposes.
Discontinued operations:
FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FASB Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts."
FIN 39:
FASB Interpretation No. 41, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements."
FIN 41:
FASB Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirement for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others."
FIN 45:
FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51."
FIN 46R:
FASB Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143."
FIN 47:
"Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003."
FSP SFAS 106-2:
Represent an ownership interest in a percentage of cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables transferred by a third-party seller into a bankruptcy remote entity, generally a trust, and then financed through a commercial paper conduit.
Interests in Purchased Receivables:
An indication of credit quality based upon JPMorgan Chase's internal risk assessment system. "Investment-grade" generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a BBB-/Baa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
Investment-grade:
A measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market value is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan Chase and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for the Firm. When the mark-to-market value is negative, JPMorgan Chase owes the counterparty. In this situation, the Firm does not have repayment risk.
Mark-to-market exposure:
An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or termination of any one contract. See FIN 39.
Master netting agreement:
Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.
NA:
The average rate for interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
Not meaningful.
NM:
are the $208 million insurance recovery in the fourth quarter of 2005; the $1.9 billion charge taken in the second quarter of 2005; the $900 million charge taken in the first quarter of 2005; and the $3.7 billion charge taken in the second quarter of 2004; all of which relate to the legal cases named in the JPMorgan Chase Quarterly Report on Form 10Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.
Nonoperating litigation reserve charges and recoveries
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.
Overhead ratio:
Represents net income applicable to common stock divided by total average common equity (net of goodwill). The Firm uses return on equity less goodwill, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the operating performance of the Firm. The Firm also utilizes this measure to facilitate operating comparisons to other competitors.
Return on common equity-goodwill:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS:
"Accounting for Leases."
SFAS 13:
"Employers' Accounting for Pensions."
SFAS 87:
"Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits."
SFAS 88:
"Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions."
SFAS 106:
"Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments."
SFAS 107:
"Accounting for Income Taxes."
SFAS 109:
"Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan."
SFAS 114:
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities."
SFAS 115:
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."
SFAS 123:
"Share-Based Payment."
SFAS 123R:
"Earnings per Share."
SFAS 128:
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."
SFAS 133:
"Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133."
SFAS 138:
 
Glossary of terms
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
"Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125."
SFAS 140:
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
SFAS 142:
"Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations."
SFAS 143:
"Amendment of Statement No. 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."
SFAS 149:
"Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140."
SFAS 155:
"Application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment."
Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 107:
"Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use."
Statement of Position ("SOP") 98-1:
A scenario that measures market risk under unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets.
Stress testing:
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
U.S. GAAP:
Obligations of the U.S. government or an instrumentality of the U.S. government whose obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
U.S. government and federal agency obligations:
Obligations of agencies originally established or chartered by the U.S. government to serve public purposes as specified by the U.S. Congress; these obligations are not explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations:
A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Value-at-Risk ("VAR"):
Forward-looking statements
From time to time, the Firm has made and will make forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as "anticipate," "target," "expect," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "goal," "believe," "anticipate" or other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements provide JPMorgan Chase's current expectations or forecasts of future events, circumstances, results or aspirations. JPMorgan Chase's disclosures in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm also may make forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). In addition, the Firm's senior management may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others.
All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. JPMorgan Chase's actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in its forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause this differencemany of which are beyond the Firm's controlinclude the following: local, regional and international business, political or economic conditions; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; technological changes instituted by the Firm and by other entities which may affect the Firm's business; mergers and acquisitions, including the Firm's ability to integrate acquisitions; ability of the Firm to develop new products and services; acceptance of new products and services and the ability of the Firm to increase market share; ability of the Firm to control expenses; competitive pressures; changes in laws and regulatory requirements; changes in applicable accounting policies; costs, outcomes and effects of litigation and regulatory investigations; changes in the credit quality of the Firm's customers; and adequacy of the Firm's risk management framework.
Additional factors that may cause future results to differ materially from forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors in the Firm's Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2005, to which reference is hereby made. There is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm speak only as of the date they are made and JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made. The reader should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and its Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders' equity; interest rates and interest differentials
Consolidated average balance sheet, interest and rates
Provided below is a summary of JPMorgan Chase's consolidated average balances, interest rates and interest differentials on a taxable-equivalent basis for the years 2003 through 2005. Income computed on a taxable-equivalent basis is the income reported in the Consolidated statements of income, adjusted to make income and earnings yields on assets exempt from income taxes (primarily federal taxes) comparable with other taxable income. The incremental tax rate used for calculating the taxable-equivalent adjustment was approximately 40% in 2005, 40% in 2004 and 41% in 2003. A substantial portion of JPMorgan Chase's securities are taxable.
(Table continued on next page)
136 
 
Within the Consolidated average balance sheets, interest and rates summary, the principal amounts of nonaccrual loans have been included in the average loan balances used to determine the average interest rate earned on loans. For additional information on nonaccrual loans, including interest accrued, see Note 11 on pages 106 and 107.
(Continuation of table)
 137
 
Interest rates and interest differential analysis of net interest income  U.S. and non-U.S.
Presented below is a summary of interest rates and interest differentials segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. operations for the years 2003 through 2005. The segregation of U.S. and non-U.S. components is based on the location of the office recording the transaction. Intracompany funding generally comprises dollar-denominated deposits originated in various locations that are centrally managed by JPMorgan Chase's Treasury unit. U.S. net interest income was $18.2 billion in 2005, an increase of $3.2 billion from the prior year. The increase primarily was attributable to the Merger. Net interest
(Table continued on next page)
138 
 
income from non-U.S. operations was $1.6 billion for 2005, relatively stable when compared with $1.5 billion in 2004.
For further information, see the "Net interest income" discussion in Consolidated results of operations on page 28.
(Continuation of table)
139
 
Changes in net interest income, volume and rate analysis
The table below presents an analysis of the effect on net interest income of volume and rate changes for the periods 2005 versus 2004 and 2004 versus 2003. In this analysis, the change due to the volume/rate variance has been allocated to volume.
140
 
Securities portfolio
The table below presents the amortized cost, estimated fair value and average yield (including the impact of related derivatives) of JPMorgan Chase's securities by contractual maturity range and type of security.
Maturity schedule of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities
U.S. government-sponsored enterprises were the only issuers whose securities exceeded 10% of JPMorgan Chase's total stockholders' equity at December 31, 2005.
For a further discussion of JPMorgan Chase's securities portfolios, see Note 9 on pages 103105.
141
 
Loan portfolio
The table below presents loans based on customer and collateral type compared with the line of business approach that is presented in Credit risk management on pages 64, 65 and 71, and in Note 11 on page 106:
Maturities and sensitivity to changes in interest rates
The table below shows, at December 31, 2005, commercial loan maturity and distribution between fixed and floating interest rates based upon the stated terms of the commercial loan agreements. The table does not include the impact of derivative instruments.
142
 
Cross-border outstandings
Cross-border disclosure is based upon the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council's ("FFIEC") guidelines governing the determination of cross-border risk.
The following table lists all countries in which JPMorgan Chase's cross-border outstandings exceed 0.75% of consolidated assets as of any of the dates specified. The disclosure includes certain exposures that are not required under the disclosure requirements of the SEC. The most significant differences between the FFIEC and SEC methodologies relate to the treatments of local country exposure and to foreign exchange and derivatives.
For a further discussion of JPMorgan Chase's cross-border exposure based on management's view of this exposure, see Country exposure on page 70.
Cross-border outstandings exceeding 0.75% of total assets
JPMorgan Chase's total cross-border exposure tends to fluctuate greatly, and the amount of exposure at year-end tends to be a function of timing rather than representing a consistent trend.
143
 
Risk elements
The following table sets forth nonperforming assets and contractually past-due assets at the dates indicated:
For a discussion of nonperforming loans and past-due loan accounting policies, see Credit risk management on pages 6374, and Note 11 on pages 106107.
Impact of nonperforming loans on interest income
The negative impact on interest income from nonperforming loans represents the difference between the amount of interest income that would have been recorded on nonperforming loans according to contractual terms and the amount of interest that actually was recognized on a cash basis. The following table sets forth this data for the years specified.
144
 
Summary of loan and lending-related commitments loss experience
The tables below summarize the changes in the Allowance for loan losses and the Allowance for lending-related commitments, respectively, during the periods indicated. For a further discussion, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 7374, and Note 12 on pages 107108.
Allowance for loan losses
Allowance for lending-related commitments
145
 
Loan loss analysis
Deposits
The following table provides a summary of the average balances and average interest rates of JPMorgan Chase's various deposits for the years indicated:
At December 31, 2005, other U.S. time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more totaled $63 billion, substantially all of which mature in three months or less. In addition, the table below presents the maturities for U.S. time certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 or more:
146
 
Short-term and other borrowed funds
The following table provides a summary of JPMorgan Chase's short-term and other borrowed funds for the years indicated:
Federal funds purchased represents overnight funds. Securities sold under repurchase agreements generally mature between one day and three months. Commercial paper generally is issued in amounts not less than $100,000 and with maturities of 270 days or less. Other borrowed funds consist of demand notes, term federal funds purchased and various other borrowings that generally have maturities of one year or less. At December 31, 2005, JPMorgan Chase had no lines of credit for general corporate purposes.
147

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
This Form 10Q provides management's discussion and analysis ("MD&A") of the financial condition and results of operations for JPMorgan Chase & Co. See the Glossary of terms on pages 8889 for definitions of terms used throughout this Form 10Q. The MD&A included in this Form 10Q contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase's results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. See Forward-looking statements on page 92 of this Form 10Q.
INTRODUCTION
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm"), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States, with $1.3 trillion in assets, $108 billion in stockholders' equity and operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction processing, asset and wealth management and private equity. Under the JPMorgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.
JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ("JPMorgan Chase Bank"), a national banking association with branches in 17 states; and Chase Bank USA, National Association, a national bank that is the Firm's credit card issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("JPMSI"), the Firm's U.S. investment banking firm.
JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into six business segments, as well as Corporate. The Firm's wholesale businesses comprise the Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management segments. The Firm's consumer businesses comprise the Retail Financial Services and Card Services segments. A description of the Firm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases, follows.
Investment Bank
JPMorgan Chase is one of the world's leading investment banks, as evidenced by the breadth of the Investment Bank client relationships and product capabilities. The Investment Bank ("IB") has extensive relationships with corporations, financial institutions, governments and institutional investors worldwide. The Firm provides a full range of investment banking products and services in all major capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk management, and market-making in cash securities and derivative instruments. The IB also commits the Firm's own capital to proprietary investing and trading activities.
Retail Financial Services
Retail Financial Services ("RFS") realigned its business reporting segments on January 1, 2006, into Regional Banking, Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance. Regional Banking offers one of the largest branch networks in the United States, covering 17 states with 2,638 branches and 7,400 automated teller machines ("ATMs"). Regional Banking distributes, through its network, a variety of products including checking, savings and time deposit accounts; home equity, residential mortgage, small business banking, and education loans; mutual fund and annuity investments; and on-line banking services. Mortgage Banking is a leading provider of mortgage loan products and is one of the largest originators and servicers of home mortgages. Auto Finance is the largest noncaptive originator of automobile loans, primarily through a network of automotive dealers across the United States. The Firm has announced an agreement to acquire the consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York Company ("The Bank of New York") in exchange for certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business.
Card Services
Card Services ("CS") is one of the largest issuers of credit cards in the United States, with more than 112 million cards in circulation. CS offers a wide variety of cards to satisfy the needs of individual consumers, small businesses and partner organizations. The Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC joint venture is the largest processor of MasterCard and Visa payments in the world.
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking ("CB") serves more than 25,000 clients, including corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profit entities, with annual revenues generally ranging from $10 million to $2 billion. While most Middle Market clients are located within the RFS footprint, CB also serves larger corporations, as well as local governments and financial institutions on a national basis. CB is a market leader with superior client penetration across the businesses it serves. Local market presence, coupled with industry expertise and excellent client service and risk management, enables CB to offer superior financial advice. Partnership with other JPMorgan Chase businesses positions CB to deliver broad product capabilities  including lending, treasury services, investment banking, and asset and wealth management  in order to meet its clients' financial needs.
 
Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services ("TSS") is a global leader in providing transaction, investment and information services to support the needs of corporations, issuers and institutional investors worldwide. TSS is one of the largest cash management providers in the world and a leading global custodian. The Treasury Services ("TS") business provides a variety of cash management products, trade finance and logistics solutions, wholesale card products, and short-term liquidity management tools. TS partners with the CB, Regional Banking and Asset & Wealth Management businesses to serve clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenues are included in other segments' results. The Worldwide Securities Services ("WSS") business provides safekeeping, valuing, clearing and servicing of securities and portfolios for investors and broker-dealers and management of American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs") programs. The Firm has announced an agreement to acquire the consumer, small-business and middle-market banking business of The Bank of New York in exchange for certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business. As a result of this pending transaction with The Bank of New York, certain portions of the corporate trust business have been reflected in discontinued operations (for all periods presented) within the Corporate line of business. For a description of the transaction, see Other Business Events below.
Asset & Wealth Management
Asset & Wealth Management ("AWM") provides investment advice and management for institutions and individuals. With $1.2 trillion of Assets under supervision, AWM is one of the largest asset and wealth managers in the world. AWM serves four distinct client groups through three businesses: institutions through JPMorgan Asset Management; ultra-high-net-worth clients through the Private Bank; high-net-worth clients through Private Client Services; and retail clients through JPMorgan Asset Management. The majority of AWM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios. AWM has global investment expertise in equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity and liquidity, including both money market instruments and bank deposits. AWM also provides trust and estate services to ultra-high-net-worth and high-net-worth clients and retirement services for corporations and individuals.
OTHER BUSINESS EVENTS
IPO allocation litigation
On April 19, 2006, JPMorgan Securities Inc. ("JPMSI") entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (the "MOU") with plaintiffs' executive committees in the consolidated IPO securities cases and the consolidated IPO antitrust cases. The MOU is an agreement in principle to settle these class action lawsuits for $425 million. The MOU is subject to approval by the plaintiffs in each of the cases and by the district court judges presiding over the respective lawsuits. The settlement would not have a material adverse impact on the Firm's financial results. See Part II Other Information, Item 1 Legal Proceedings on page 93 of this Form 10Q for additional information.
Acquisition of the consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York in exchange for certain portions of the corporate trust business including trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses
On April 8, 2006, JPMorgan Chase announced an agreement to acquire The Bank of New York's consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses in exchange for certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business plus a cash payment of $150 million. The Bank of New York businesses being acquired are valued at a premium of $2.30 billion; the Firm's corporate trust businesses being transferred (i.e., trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses) are valued at a premium of $2.15 billion. The Firm may also make a future payment to The Bank of New York of up to $50 million depending on certain new account openings. JPMorgan Chase expects to recognize an after-tax gain of approximately $600-$700 million. The transaction has been approved by both companies' boards of directors and is subject to regulatory approvals. It is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Acquisition of Kohl's private label credit card portfolio
On March 5, 2006, JPMorgan Chase entered into an agreement with Kohl's Corporation ("Kohl's") to acquire $1.6 billion of Kohl's private label credit card receivables and 13 million accounts. The transaction was completed on April 21, 2006. JPMorgan Chase and Kohl's have also entered into an agreement under which JPMorgan Chase will offer private-label credit cards to both new and existing Kohl's customers.
Collegiate Funding Services
On March 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired, for approximately $663 million, Collegiate Funding Services, a leader in education loan servicing and consolidation. This acquisition included $6 billion of education loans and enables the Firm to create a comprehensive education finance business.
Acquisition of certain operations from Paloma Partners
On March 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired the middle and back office operations of Paloma Partners Management Company ("Paloma"), which is part of a privately-owned investment fund management group based in Greenwich, CT. The parties have also entered into a multi-year contract pursuant to which JPMorgan Chase will provide daily operational services to Paloma. The acquired operations will be combined with JPMorgan Chase's current hedge fund administration unit, JPMorgan Tranaut.
 
JPMorgan and Fidelity Brokerage Company
On February 28, 2006, the Firm announced a strategic alliance with Fidelity Brokerage to become the exclusive provider of new issue equity securities and the primary provider of fixed income products to Fidelity's brokerage clients and retail customers, effectively expanding the Firm's existing distribution platform.
Sale of insurance underwriting business
On February 7, 2006, JPMorgan Chase announced that it had agreed to sell its life insurance and annuity underwriting businesses to Protective Life Corporation for a cash purchase price of approximately $1.2 billion. The sale, which includes both the heritage Chase insurance business and the life business that Bank One had bought from Zurich Insurance in 2003, is subject to normal regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the third quarter of 2006. JPMorgan Chase anticipates the transaction will have no material impact on earnings.
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
This overview of management's discussion and analysis highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Form 10Q. For a more complete understanding of events, trends and uncertainties, as well as the liquidity, capital, credit and market risks, and the critical accounting estimates, affecting the Firm and its various lines of business, this Form 10Q should be read in its entirety.
Business overview
The Firm reported 2006 first-quarter net income of $3.1 billion, or $0.86 per share, compared with net income of $2.3 billion, or $0.63 per share, for the first quarter of 2005. Return on common equity for the quarter was 12% compared with 9% in the prior year. The comparison with the prior year benefited from the absence of a charge of $558 million after-tax, or $0.15 per share, related to settlement of the Firm's WorldCom litigation, which occurred in the first quarter of 2005. Results for the current quarter included $44 million of after-tax merger charges, or $0.01 per share, compared with $90 million, or $0.03 per share, in the first quarter of 2005.
Net income for the first quarter of 2006 also included incremental expense of $459 million (pre-tax) related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004) ("Share-Based Payment"), as of January 1, 2006, under the modified prospective method. The $459 million of incremental expense was allocated to the business segments as follows: Investment Bank  $256 million; Retail Financial Services  $17 million; Card Services  $4 million; Commercial Banking  $29 million; Treasury & Securities Services  $25 million; Asset & Wealth Management  $71 million; and Corporate  $57 million.
On April 8, 2006, the Firm announced an agreement to acquire The Bank of New York's consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses in exchange for certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business plus a cash payment of $150 million. The transaction will add 338 branches, 400 ATMs, and approximately 600,000 households, 100,000 businesses, $15 billion in deposits and $8 billion of loans to the Firm's New York City/Tri-State franchise. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Global economic and market conditions affected the performance of each of the Firm's businesses. In the first quarter of 2006, both the global and U.S. economies continued to grow steadily, and the capital market environment remained favorable. First quarter growth in the U.S. economy was boosted by recovery from last fall's hurricane disruptions, although growth appeared to be moderating as the quarter ended. The U.S. economy experienced a continued rise in interest rates driven by improving global economic prospects, resulting in two quarter-point increases in the federal funds rate, from 4.25% to 4.75%; at the same time the yield curve remained relatively flat. Equity markets, both domestic and international, enjoyed positive returns versus the prior quarter and prior year.
The discussion that follows highlights the performance of each business segment during the first quarter of 2006 with the comparable period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
The Investment Bank achieved record quarterly revenues driven by record Equity Markets revenue and strong investment banking fees and Fixed Income Markets revenue, which benefited from strength in global capital markets activity and continuing investments in strategic initiatives. However, net income declined due to an increase in the provision for credit losses and higher compensation expense. Record Equity Markets revenue was driven by record trading and strong commissions across all regions. Fixed Income Markets revenue, although strong, was lower than the prior year due to weaker results in commodities and rates markets, partially offset by stronger results in emerging markets, currencies and credit markets. Investment banking fees were higher than the prior year due to strong growth in advisory fees and record loan syndication revenue. The higher level of provision for credit losses reflected increased loan balances; credit quality remained stable. Expense increased due primarily to higher incentive compensation, reflecting improved performance, and the incremental expense related to the adoption of SFAS 123R.
Retail Financial Services' net income declined due to lower Mortgage Banking performance and continued spread compression on deposits and home equity loans in Regional Banking. Partially offsetting these lower results were growth in deposit and loan balances. Credit quality remained favorable in all loan portfolios, which led to a decline in the provision for credit losses. Expense increased due to the ongoing investment in retail distribution, partially offset by merger-related expense savings and other efficiencies. The underlying business drivers benefited from the continuing investment in the retail distribution network
 
and the overall strength of the U.S. economy, both of which contributed to increases in checking accounts, deposits, loans, and improved cross-selling of credit cards, mortgages and investment products. During the quarter the acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services was completed, adding $6 billion of education finance loans and providing a loan servicing capability.
Card Services net income increased, primarily due to lower bankruptcy-related losses following the new bankruptcy legislation that became effective in the fourth quarter of 2005. Net income also benefited from lower credit losses (excluding the impact of the bankruptcy legislation), merger savings and higher managed loan balances, including the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business. These benefits were offset partially by narrower loan spreads and higher marketing expense. Both Total net revenue and Noninterest expense were lower due to the restructuring and related deconsolidation of Paymentech in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Commercial Banking net income benefited from higher revenues, primarily offset by higher expense and an increased provision for credit losses, while credit quality remained stable. Revenues increased due to wider spreads and higher volume related to liability balances and increased loan balances, partially offset by narrower loan spreads reflecting continued competitive pressure. Expense increased primarily due to the incremental expense related to the adoption of SFAS 123R.
Treasury & Securities Services net income increased significantly benefiting from higher revenue, partially offset by increased expense. Revenue growth reflected business growth and wider spreads on liability balances, which both benefited from global economic strength and stronger capital market activity. The increase in expense was due to higher compensation expense related to business growth and the incremental expense due to the adoption of SFAS 123R.
Asset & Wealth Management net income benefited from increased revenue, partially offset by higher expense. Revenue growth was driven by net asset inflows, mainly in equity-related and liquidity products, and by asset appreciation, benefiting from strength in global equity markets and improved investment performance. These factors also lead to increased levels of assets under supervision and assets under management. The increase in expense was due to the incremental expense related to the adoption of SFAS 123R and higher performance-based compensation.
The Corporate segment net loss improved due to higher revenue and lower expense (excluding the impact of discontinued operations, as discussed further below). The increase in revenue was driven primarily by lower Treasury securities portfolio losses and improved Treasury net interest spread. These benefits were offset partially by lower private equity gains. Expense benefited from the absence of the WorldCom litigation settlement in the first quarter of 2005, lower merger-related costs and increased merger-related savings and other efficiencies. These benefits were partially offset by the incremental expense related to the adoption of SFAS 123R.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, approximately $580 million (pre-tax) of merger savings were realized, which is an annualized rate of approximately $2.3 billion. Management estimates that annualized savings will be approximately $2.8 billion by the end of 2006. Merger costs of $71 million were expensed during the first quarter of 2006, bringing the total amount expensed, since the merger announcement, to $2.2 billion. Management continues to estimate remaining merger costs of $800 million to $1.3 billion, which are expected to be expensed during the remainder of 2006 and 2007.
The Corporate Trust businesses, which were previously reported in TSS, have been deemed discontinued operations. The related balance sheet and income statement activity were transferred to the Corporate segment during the second quarter of 2006, and all prior periods have been reclassified to reflect this transfer.
The Firm had, at March 31, 2006, total stockholders' equity of $108 billion and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%. The Firm purchased $1.3 billion, or 31.8 million shares, of common stock during the quarter.
Business outlook
The following forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase's results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements.
The performance of the Firm's capital markets and wholesale businesses are affected by overall global economic growth and by financial market movements and activity levels. The Investment Bank enters the second quarter of 2006 with a strong fee pipeline. Market conditions can impact trading results, which are difficult to predict. The Investment Bank remains focused on new product expansion initiatives, which are intended to promote growth and reduce volatility in trading results over time.
In the consumer businesses, the relatively flat yield curve and continuing increase in interest rates has put pressure on deposit and loan spreads. During the first quarter of 2006 the deposit spread compression began to abate.
The Corporate segment includes Private Equity, Treasury, Corporate Other support units and discontinued operations. The revenue outlook for the Private Equity business is directly related to the strength of the equity markets and the performance of the underlying portfolio investments. If current market conditions persist, the Firm anticipates continued realization of private equity gains in 2006, but results can be volatile from quarter to quarter. The Firm remains on target for achieving improvement in Treasury net interest income and reduction of the net loss in Corporate Other.
Credit quality overall remains stable across the wholesale and consumer portfolios. However, management continues to anticipate higher credit losses over time. The managed provision for credit losses for Card Services is anticipated to increase in the second quarter of 2006 as compared with the first quarter of 2006, as the benefit of lower bankruptcy-related losses
 
decreases. Excluding the bankruptcy-related impact, the underlying credit quality of the managed credit card portfolio was strong. During the second half of 2006, it is anticipated that the recently implemented FFIEC minimum payment rules will negatively affect both revenues and net charge-offs in Card Services, estimated by management to be approximately $500 million (split evenly between revenue and charge-offs).
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase's consolidated results of operations on a reported basis. Factors that relate primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detail within that business segment than they are in this consolidated section. Total net revenue, Noninterest expense and Income tax expense for prior periods have been reclassified to reflect the impact of discontinued operations. For a discussion of the Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated results of operations, see page 58 of this Form 10Q and pages 8183 of the JPMorgan Chase Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2005 ("2005 Annual Report").
The following table presents the components of Total net revenue:
Total net revenue for the first quarter of 2006 was up by $1.6 billion, or 12%, from the prior year. The increase was due primarily to lower Treasury security portfolio losses; increased trading revenue (within Principal transactions); higher Asset management, administration, and commissions revenues; and increased Other income, Credit card income, and Investment banking fees. Partially offsetting this growth were lower Private equity gains (within Principal transactions), a decline in Net interest income, and lower Mortgage Banking production and servicing income.
Investment banking fees of $1.2 billion were the highest since 2000, up 18% from the first quarter of 2005. Advisory fees were also the highest since 2000. Underwriting fees were up from the prior year driven by record loan syndication fees offset partially by lower bond underwriting fees. For a further discussion of Investment banking fees, which are primarily recorded in the IB, see the IB segment results on pages 1416 of this Form 10Q.
Effective January 1, 2006, Principal transactions is a new caption in the Consolidated income statements that combines Trading revenue (which includes physical commodities carried at the lower of cost or market), primarily in the Investment Bank, and Private equity gains (losses), primarily in the Private Equity business of Corporate. The prior period's presentation of Trading revenue and Private equity gains (losses) have been reclassified to this new caption. The decline from last year in Principal transactions primarily reflected two large private equity gains that were realized in the prior year's first quarter. The decline was partially offset by higher trading revenue as a result of record revenues in equity markets, along with strong fixed income markets results in emerging markets, currencies and credit markets. Fixed income trading results from commodities and rate markets were weaker than last year. For a further discussion of Principal transactions, see the IB and Corporate segment results on pages 1416 and 3334, respectively, of this Form 10Q.
Lending & deposit related fees rose as a result of increased fee income on deposit-related products from growth in business volume. For a further discussion of deposit fees, which are partly recorded at RFS, see the RFS segment results on pages 1722 of this Form 10Q.
The increases in Asset management, administration and commissions revenue were due to growth in assets under management and custody, reflecting net asset inflows, mainly in equity-related and liquidity products, as well as global market value appreciation, new business, the acquisition of Vastera in the second quarter of 2005 and higher placement and performance fees. Commissions were higher due to increases in brokerage transaction volume across regions, partly offset by the sale of BrownCo. For additional information on these fees and commissions, see the segment discussions for the IB on pages 1416, TSS on pages 2829 and AWM on pages 3032 of this Form 10Q.
Securities gains (losses) significantly improved, primarily as a result of lower Treasury portfolio losses of $158 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared with losses of $902 million in the prior year period. For a further discussion of Securities gains (losses), which are primarily recorded in the Firm's Treasury business, see the Corporate segment discussion on pages 3334 of this Form 10Q.
 
Mortgage fees and related income declined, primarily due to lower mortgage servicing and production income. Servicing income results were driven primarily by lower MSR risk management results, partially offset by increased revenue stemming from higher third-party loan servicing volume. Production income decreased, reflecting lower net gains on the sale of mortgages. For a discussion of Mortgage fees and related income, which is recorded primarily in RFS's Mortgage Banking business, see the Mortgage Banking discussion on page 21 of this Form 10Q.
Credit card income rose as a result of higher customer charge volume, which favorably affected interchange income, and servicing fees associated with growth in volume of securitized credit card receivables. These were partially offset by an increase in volume-driven payments to partners and higher expenses related to reward programs, as well as the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech. For a further discussion of Credit card income, see CS's segment results on pages 2325 of this Form 10Q.
The increase in Other income reflected higher gains from loan workouts and loan sales, increased revenues from automobile operating leases, higher dividend and equity investment income and lower write-downs for loans transferred to held-for-sale. These increases were offset partly by a decrease in the net results of corporate and bank-owned life insurance policies.
Net interest income declined due to narrower spreads on trading assets, wholesale and consumer loans, as well as on consumer deposits. These decreases were offset partially by improvement in Treasury's net interest spread and in the spreads on wholesale liability balances. In addition, higher balances related to wholesale and consumer loans and higher level of consumer deposits also contributed positively to Net interest income. The Firm's total average interest-earning assets for the three months ended March 31, 2006, were $939 billion, up 7% from the first quarter of 2005, as a result of an increase in loans and other liquid earning assets, partially offset by a decline resulting from the repositioning of Treasury's investment portfolio during 2005. The net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, was 2.19%, a decrease of 21 basis points from the prior year.
Provision for credit losses
The Provision for credit losses was $831 million, $404 million higher than the first quarter of 2005. The higher Provision for credit losses was primarily the result of a wholesale provision of $179 million compared with a benefit of $386 million in the prior year, reflecting loan growth in the Investment Bank. The wholesale loan net recovery rate was 0.06% for the quarter, an improvement from a net recovery rate of 0.03% in the prior year. The total consumer provision was $652 million, $161 million lower than the prior year, primarily due to lower bankruptcy-related net charge-offs in Card Services. For further information regarding the Provision for credit losses, see Credit Risk Management on page 54 of this Form 10Q.
Noninterest expense
The following table presents the components of Noninterest expense:
Total Noninterest expense was $9.6 billion, down by $191 million, or 2%, from the prior year. The decrease was due primarily to lower Other expense and Professional & outside services, partially offset by an increase in Compensation expense. Excluding in the first quarter of this year both the incremental expense of $459 million from the adoption of SFAS 123R and $71 million of Merger costs, and excluding in the first quarter of last year both the material litigation charge of $900 million primarily related to WorldCom and $145 million of Merger costs, Noninterest expense would have been up by $324 million. The increase was driven by higher performance-based compensation, partially offset by merger savings.
 
Compensation expense rose as a result of $459 million of incremental expense related to the adoption of SFAS 123R, higher performance-based incentives and additional headcount in connection with investments in businesses. The increase was offset partially by ongoing efficiency improvements and merger-related savings throughout the Firm. For a detailed discussion of the adoption of SFAS 123R and employee stock-based incentives, see Note 6 on pages 6871 of this Form 10Q.
Higher Occupancy expense reflected investments in the retail distribution network, partly offset by operating efficiencies.
Professional & outside services were lower due to expense management initiatives, the settlement of several legal matters in 2005 and the Paymentech deconsolidation.
Marketing expense was higher, stemming from an increase in advertising for credit card and retail products.
Other expense was lower due to insurance recoveries relating to certain material litigation and expense management initiatives in 2006 and a material litigation charge of $900 million, primarily related to settlement costs of the WorldCom class action litigation, and a $40 million charge taken by RFS related to the dissolution of an education finance joint venture, both of which occurred in 2005. These items were partially offset by increased expense as a result of growth in business volume, including higher minority interest expense related to Cazenove and Highbridge.
For discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs, refer to Note 14 and Note 7 on pages 7981 and 71, respectively, of this Form 10Q.
Income tax expense
The Firm's Income from continuing operations before income tax expense, Income tax expense and effective tax rate were as follows for each of the periods indicated:
The increase in the effective tax rate was related to higher reported pre-tax income combined with changes in the proportion of income subject to federal, state and local taxes. Also contributing to the increase were the Merger costs and Litigation reserve charge in the first quarter of 2005, which reflected tax benefits at a 38% marginal tax rate.
 
EXPLANATION AND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM'S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"); these financial statements appear on pages 6063 of this Form 10Q. That presentation, which is referred to as "reported basis," provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's and the lines' of business results on a "managed" basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that are adjusted to exclude credit card securitizations and present revenue on a fully taxable equivalent ("FTE") basis. These adjustments do not have any impact on Net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole. Effective January 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase's presentation of "operating earnings" that excluded merger costs and material litigation reserve charges and recoveries from reported results has been eliminated. These items had been previously excluded from operating results because they were deemed non-recurring; they are now included in the Corporate business segment's results. In addition, Trading-related net interest income is no longer reclassified from net interest income to trading revenue.
Card Services' managed results excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on Total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. This presentation is provided to facilitate the comparability to competitors. Through securitization, the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card receivables into securities, which are sold to investors. The credit card receivables are removed from the consolidated balance sheets through the transfer of the receivables to a trust, and the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investors to specific cash flows generated from the credit card receivables. The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests as seller's interests, which are recorded in Loans on the Consolidated balance sheets. A gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in Other income. Securitization also affects the Firm's Consolidated statements of income as the aggregate amount of interest income, certain fee revenue and recoveries that is in excess of the aggregate amount of interest paid to investors, gross credit losses and other trust expenses related to the securitized receivables are reclassified into credit card income. For a reconciliation of reported to managed basis of Card Services results, see page 25 of this Form 10Q. For information regarding loans and residual interests sold and securitized, see Note 12 on pages 7477 of this Form 10Q. JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of "managed receivables" to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial performance of the underlying credit card loans, both sold and not sold; as the same borrower is continuing to use the credit card for ongoing charges, a borrower's credit performance will affect both the loan receivables sold under SFAS 140 and those not sold. Thus, in its disclosures regarding managed loan receivables, JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance sheet in order to disclose the credit performance (such as net charge-off rates) of the entire managed credit card portfolio. In addition, Card Services operations are funded, managed results are evaluated, and decisions are made about allocating resources such as employees and capital based upon managed financial information.
Total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenues arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense.
Management uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the segment level because it believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors in understanding the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
 
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis:
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis. The business segment financial results presented reflect the organization of JPMorgan Chase. Currently, there are six major reportable business segments: the Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management, as well as a Corporate segment. The segments are based upon the products and services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis. For a further discussion of Business segment results, see pages 3435 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
Description of business segment reporting methodology
Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives these results generally allocates income and expense using market-based methodologies. For a further discussion of those methodologies, see page 35 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The Firm continues to assess the assumptions, methodologies and reporting reclassifications used for segment reporting, and further refinements may be implemented in future periods.
Business segment financial disclosures
Effective January 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase modified certain of its financial disclosures to reflect more closely the manner in which the Firm's business segments are managed and to provide improved comparability with competitors. These financial disclosure revisions are reflected in this Form 10Q, and the financial information for prior periods has been revised to reflect the disclosure changes as if they had been in effect throughout 2005. A summary of the changes are described below.
Reported versus Operating Basis Changes
The presentation of operating earnings that excluded merger costs and material litigation reserve charges and recoveries from reported results has been eliminated. These items had been excluded previously from operating results because they were deemed nonrecurring; they are now included in the Corporate business segment's results. In addition, trading-related net interest income is no longer reclassified from Net interest income to trading revenue. As a result of these changes, effective January 1, 2006, management has discontinued reporting on an "operating" basis.
Business Segment Disclosures
RFS has been reorganized into the following business segments: Regional Banking, Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance. For more detailed information on the RFS reorganization, see the RFS business segment discussion on page 17 of this Form 10Q.
TSS, as previously announced, has been reorganized by combining the Investor Services and Institutional Trust Services businesses into a single business called Worldwide Securities Services. Also, TSS firmwide disclosures have been adjusted to reflect a refined set of TSS products and a revised allocation of liability balances and lending-related revenue related to certain client transfers.
Effective January 1, 2006, various wholesale banking clients, together with the related revenue and expense, are being transferred among CB, the IB and TSS. In the first quarter of 2006, the primary client transfer was corporate mortgage finance from CB to the IB.
CB's business metrics now include gross investment banking revenue, which reflects revenue recorded in both CB and the IB.
Corporate's disclosure has been expanded to include Total net revenue and Net income for Treasury and Other Corporate segments.
Certain expenses that are managed by the business segments, but that had been previously recorded in Corporate and allocated to the businesses, are now recorded as direct expenses within the businesses.
Capital allocation changes
Effective January 1, 2006, the Firm refined its methodology for allocating capital to the business segments. As prior periods have not been revised to reflect the new capital allocations, certain business metrics, such as ROE, are not comparable to the current presentation. For a further discussion of the changes, see Capital Management  Line of business equity on page 37 of this Form 10Q.
Discontinued operations
As a result of the pending transaction with The Bank of New York, certain of the corporate trust businesses have been transferred from TSS to the Corporate segment and reported in discontinued operations for all periods reported.
Segment results  Managed basis
(a)
The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated:
 
INVESTMENT BANK
For a discussion of the business profile of the IB, see pages 3638 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
 
Quarterly results
Net income of $850 million was driven by record quarterly revenues of $4.7 billion. Net income declined 36% compared with the prior year due to an increase in the provision for credit losses related to higher loan balances, incremental expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R and higher performance-based compensation.
Net revenue was a record $4.7 billion, up by $512 million, or 12%, compared with the prior year. Investment banking fees of $1.2 billion were the highest since 2000, up 19% from the prior year. Advisory fees of $389 million, up 48% from last year, were also the highest since 2000. Debt underwriting fees of $569 million were up 18% from the prior year, driven by record loan syndication fees offset partially by lower bond underwriting fees. Equity underwriting fees of $212 million were down 11% from the prior year, reflecting lower market share. Fixed Income Markets revenue of $2.0 billion was down 13% from the prior year due to weaker performance in commodities and rates markets, partially offset by stronger results in emerging markets, currencies and credit markets. Equity Markets produced record revenues of $1.2 billion in the quarter driven by record trading and strong commissions across all regions. Credit Portfolio revenues of $321 million were down 8% from the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was $183 million, as compared with a benefit of $366 million in the prior year. The current quarter's provision reflects growth in loan balances and stable credit quality.
Noninterest expense was $3.2 billion, up 26% from the prior year. Excluding incremental expense of $256 million from the adoption of SFAS 123R, expenses were up by $408 million, or 16%, from the prior year. The increase was primarily due to higher incentive compensation related to improved performance, and an increase in the compensation expense to total net revenue ratio, as well as continued investments in strategic initiatives.
 
According to Thomson Financial, the Firm was ranked #1 in Global Syndicated Loans, #3 in Global Announced M&A and #2 in Global Long-Term Debt for the first three months of 2006.
According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #3 in Investment Banking fees generated during the first three months of 2006.
 
RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES
Retail Financial Services ("RFS") realigned its business reporting segments on January 1, 2006, into Regional Banking, Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance. Regional Banking offers one of the largest branch networks in the United States, covering 17 states with 2,638 branches and 7,400 automated teller machines ("ATMs"). Regional Banking distributes, through its network, a variety of products including checking, savings and time deposit accounts; home equity, residential mortgage, small business banking, and education loans; mutual fund and annuity investments; and on-line banking services. Mortgage Banking is a leading provider of mortgage loan products and is one of the largest originators and servicers of home mortgages. Auto Finance is the largest noncaptive originator of automobile loans, primarily through a network of automotive dealers across the United States.
During the quarter, RFS completed the purchase of Collegiate Funding Services, adding an education loan servicing capability and entry into the Federal Family Education Loan Program consolidation market. RFS also has agreed to sell its life insurance and annuity underwriting businesses to Protective Life Corporation; the sale is expected to close in the third quarter of 2006. Finally, on April 8, 2006, the Firm announced an agreement to acquire The Bank of New York's consumer and small-business banking businesses; this acquisition will significantly strengthen RFS's distribution network in the New York City/Tri-State area, adding 338 branches and 400 ATMs.
 
 
Quarterly results
Net income of $881 million was down by $107 million, or 11%, from the prior year. Current and prior period results included charges to transfer automobile loans to held-for-sale and prior-year results also included a charge for the termination of an Education Finance joint venture and a gain on the sale of a recreational vehicle loan portfolio. Excluding all of these items, net income declined by $131 million or 13%. The decrease reflected weakness in Mortgage Banking and continued spread compression on deposits and loans in Regional Banking, as well as continued investment in the retail distribution network. These declines were offset partially by deposit and loan balance growth in Regional Banking and continued favorable credit quality in all loan portfolios.
Net revenue of $3.8 billion was down by $84 million, or 2%, from the prior year. Net interest income of $2.6 billion declined by $91 million, or 3%, reflecting narrower spreads on deposits and loans in Regional Banking as well as reduced balances in the auto loan and lease portfolios. These decreases were offset partially by increased deposit balances and higher levels of home equity loans. Noninterest revenue of $1.2 billion was up by $7 million, or 1%, driven by higher automobile operating lease income and increased fee income on deposit-related products. These increases were offset by lower Mortgage Banking production and servicing income. Current quarter results also included a $50 million write-down on $1.3 billion of automobile loans transferred to held-for-sale, compared with an $88 million write-down last year on $2.7 billon of auto loans transferred to held-for-sale.
The provision for credit losses totaled $85 million, down by $9 million from the prior year. Credit quality continued to be favorable across all businesses.
Noninterest expense of $2.2 billion was up by $76 million, or 4%, as a result of ongoing investments in the retail distribution network, higher depreciation expense on owned automobiles acquired under operating leases, and incremental expense of $17 million from the adoption of SFAS 123R. These increases were offset in part by operating and merger-related efficiencies and the absence of a $40 million charge related to the dissolution of an Education Finance joint venture.
 
 
REGIONAL BANKING
 
Quarterly results
net income totaled $757 million, down by $29 million, or 4%, from the prior year. Net revenue of $3.0 billion increased by $3 million, essentially flat from the prior year. Results reflected higher deposit balances, growth in home equity and mortgage loan balances, and increased deposit-related fees. These increases were offset by narrower spreads on deposits and loans, and lower investment sales revenue. Credit quality remained favorable for all loan portfolios. Expenses of $1.7 billion were up by $33 million, or 2%, from the prior year. Prior-year results included a $40 million charge to terminate an education finance joint venture. Excluding this item, expenses increased as investments in the retail distribution network and incremental expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R offset merger savings and other operating efficiencies. Compared with the prior quarter, net income increased 13%, in part due to the seasonal tax-refund anticipation business.
Regional Banking
 
 
 
MORTGAGE BANKING
Quarterly results
net income was $39 million, down from net income of $139 million in the prior year. Production revenue decreased, reflecting lower gain-on-sale margins on higher mortgage originations. Servicing income of $169 million was down from $283 million in the prior year. The results were primarily driven by lower MSR risk management results, partially offset by increased servicing revenue due to increased levels of third-party loans serviced. Noninterest expense was $324 million, up by $25 million, reflecting increased mortgage originations.
Mortgage Banking
 
AUTO FINANCE
 
Quarterly results
net income of $85 million was up by $22 million, or 35%, from the prior year. Current-period results included a net $45 million loss related to auto loans transferred to held-for-sale. Prior-year results included a net $78 million loss associated with auto loans transferred to held-for-sale and a $34 million net benefit from the sale of a recreational vehicle loan portfolio. Excluding these items, the benefit of wider loan spreads and lower credit costs offset the decline in loan and lease balances. After adjusting for the impact of increased depreciation expense on owned automobiles subject to operating leases, expenses declined reflecting lower production volumes and operating efficiencies.
Auto Finance
 
CARD SERVICES
For a discussion of the business profile of CS, see pages 4546 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of "managed receivables" to evaluate the credit performance of its credit card loans, both sold and not sold. For further information, see Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm's use of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 1112 of this Form 10Q. Managed results exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on Total net revenue, the Provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. Securitization does not change reported Net income; however, it does affect the classification of items on the Consolidated statements of income.
 
Quarterly results
Net income of $901 million was up by $379 million, or 73%, from the prior year. The results for the quarter reflected a pre-tax benefit of $550 million, which is based on an estimate by management of the impact of lower bankruptcies following the new bankruptcy legislation that became effective in the fourth-quarter of 2005. Results were also driven by lower credit losses (excluding the impact from the bankruptcy legislation), merger savings and higher loan balances, including the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business. These benefits were offset partially by narrower spreads on loans and higher marketing expense.
Net revenue was $3.7 billion, down by $94 million, or 2%, from the prior year. After adjusting the prior-year results for the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech, revenue was up 1%. Net interest income was $3.0 billion, flat to the prior year. Higher loan balances, including the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business, and increased revenues due to the decline in bankruptcy-related revenue reversals, were offset by narrower loan spreads. Net interest income to average managed receivables was 8.85% down from 9.13% in the prior year, but up from 8.14% in the prior quarter. Noninterest revenue of $672 million was down by $100 million, or 13%. After adjusting the prior-year results for the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech, noninterest revenue was up 5% due to higher charge volume, resulting in increased interchange income, partially offset by higher volume-driven payments to partners and higher expense related to reward programs.
Average managed loans of $138.0 billion increased by $4.4 billion, or 3%, from the prior year, but decreased $0.9 billion from the prior quarter. The current quarter included an average of $2.2 billion, and the prior quarter included an average of $1.2 billion, of loans from the Sears Canada acquisition. End-of-period managed loans of $134.3 billion increased by $0.9 billion, or 1%, from the prior year (including $2.0 billion of loans from the Sears Canada acquisition) and decreased by $8.0 billion from the prior quarter. The decline from the prior quarter was caused by higher-than-normal customer payment rates, which management believes may be partially related to the recently implemented new minimum payment rules.
 
The provision for credit losses was $1.0 billion, down by $620 million, or 38%, from the prior year. This decrease was due primarily to lower bankruptcy-related net charge-offs, which based upon an estimate by management, had an impact of $475 million. The managed net charge-off rate for the quarter decreased to 2.99%, down from 4.83% in the prior year and 6.39% in the prior quarter. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 3.10%, down from 3.54% in the prior year, and up from 2.79% in the prior quarter. These credit statistics reflect the impact of the new bankruptcy legislation. In addition, management believes the underlying credit quality of the managed loan portfolio remains strong.
Noninterest expense of $1.2 billion decreased by $70 million, or 5%. After adjusting the prior year's results for the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech, expenses were up 5%. The increase was due to increased marketing activity, higher fraud-related losses and the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business, largely offset by merger savings.
 
 
The financial information presented below reconciles reported basis and managed basis to disclose the effect of securitizations.
 
 
COMMERCIAL BANKING
For a discussion of the business profile of CB, see page 4 of this Form 10Q. As previously announced, various wholesale banking clients, and the related income and balance sheet items, have been transferred between Commercial Banking, the Investment Bank and Treasury & Securities Services. As a result, prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. For additional information on these transfers, see page 13 of this Form 10Q.
The agreement to acquire The Bank of New York's middle-market banking business will add approximately 2,000 clients, $2.9 billion of loans and $1.6 billion in deposits.
 
Quarterly results
Net income was $240 million, up by $9 million, or 4%, from the prior year. The increase from the prior year was the result of growth in net interest income offset partially by incremental expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R and an increase in provision for credit losses.
Net revenue was $900 million, up by $73 million, or 9%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $667 million, up by $67 million, or 11%, due to wider spreads and higher volumes related to liability balances and increased loan balances, partially offset by narrower loan spreads reflecting continuing competitive pressure. Noninterest revenue was $233 million, up by $6 million, or 3%, from the prior year.
Each business within Commercial Banking grew revenue over the prior year. Middle Market Banking revenue was $623 million, an increase of $53 million, or 9%, primarily due to higher treasury services and investment banking revenue. Mid-Corporate Banking and Real Estate revenues increased 11% and 7%, respectively, due primarily to an increase in treasury services revenue.
Provision for credit losses was $7 million, compared with a net benefit of $6 million in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $498 million, up by $44 million, or 10%, from the prior year. The increase was due primarily to incremental expense of $29 million from the adoption of SFAS 123R.
 
 
 
TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES
For a discussion of the business profile of TSS, see page 5 of this Form 10Q. In 2006, various wholesale banking clients, and the related revenue and expense, have been transferred among CB, IB and TSS. As a result, prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. TSS firmwide disclosures have also been adjusted to reflect a refined set of TSS products and a revised split of liability balances and lending-related revenue related to the client transfers described on page 13 of this Form 10Q.
The Firm has announced the exchange of select corporate trust businesses including trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management for the consumer, small business and middle market banking businesses of The Bank of New York. These corporate trust businesses, which were previously reported in TSS, have been deemed discontinued operations. The related balance sheet, income statement and assets under custody activity were transferred to the Corporate segment during the second quarter of 2006, and all prior periods have been reclassified to reflect this transfer.
 
Quarterly results
Net income was a record $262 million, up by $63 million, or 32%. Earnings benefited from higher revenues due to business growth and wider spreads on average liability balances, partially offset by higher compensation expense resulting from business growth and incremental expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R.
Net revenue of $1.5 billion was up by $179 million, or 14%. Noninterest revenue was $978 million, up by $126 million, or 15%. The improvement was due to an increase in assets under custody to $11.2 trillion, which was driven by market value appreciation and new business. Also contributing to the improvement was the acquisition of Vastera and growth in Fund Services, foreign exchange and wholesale card, all of which were driven by a combination of increased usage by existing clients and new business. Net interest income was $507 million, up by $53 million, primarily resulting from wider spreads on higher average liability balances, which increased 23% to $178 billion.
TS net revenue of $693 million grew by $58 million, or 9%. WSS net revenue of $792 million grew by $121 million, or 18%. TSS firmwide net revenue, which includes Treasury Services net revenue recorded in other lines of business, grew to $2.1 billion, up $237 million, or 13%. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to $1.3 billion, up $116 million, or 10%.
Credit reimbursement to the IB was $30 million, a decrease of $8 million. TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the Investment Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.
Noninterest expense was $1.0 billion, up by $84 million, or 9%. The increase was due to higher compensation expense related to business growth, incremental expense of $25 million from the adoption of SFAS 123R, and the acquisition of Vastera.
 
 
TSS firmwide metrics
TSS firmwide metrics include certain TSS product revenues and liability balances reported in other lines of business for customers who are also customers of those lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of Treasury Services ("TS") and TSS products and revenues, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenues and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary in order to understand the aggregate TSS business. Prior periods have been restated to reflect the impact of the client transfers described on page 13 of this Form 10Q.
 
 
ASSET & WEALTH MANAGEMENT
For a discussion of the business profile of AWM, see pages 5152 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
 
Quarterly results
Net income was $313 million, up by $37 million, or 13%, from the prior year. Performance was driven by increased revenues offset partially by a higher compensation expense related to incremental expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R and higher performance-based compensation.
Net revenue was $1.6 billion, up by $223 million, or 16%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue, principally fees and commissions, of $1.3 billion was up by $259 million, or 24%. This increase was due primarily to net asset inflows, mainly in equity-related and liquidity products; global equity market appreciation; and higher placement and performance fees. Net interest income was $246 million, down by $36 million, or 13%, from the prior year, primarily due to narrower deposit spreads and the sale of BrownCo in the fourth-quarter of 2005, partially offset by higher deposit balances.
Retail client segment revenue grew 28%, to $442 million, primarily due to net asset inflows, partially offset by the sale of BrownCo. Private Bank client segment revenue grew 5% from the prior year to $441 million, due to increased placement activity and management fees, and higher deposit balances, partially offset by narrower deposit spreads. Institutional client segment revenue grew 35%, to $435 million, due to net asset inflows and higher performance fees. Private Client Services client segment revenue decreased 2%, to $266 million, due to narrower deposit and loan spreads, partially offset by higher deposit and loan balances.
Provision for credit losses was a $7 million benefit, flat from the prior year.
Noninterest expense of $1.1 billion was up by $164 million, or 18%, from the prior year. This increase was due to incremental expense of $71 million from the adoption of SFAS 123R, and higher performance-based compensation, partially offset by the sale of BrownCo.
 
 
Assets under supervision
Assets under supervision were $1.2 trillion, up 10%, or $105 billion, from the prior year, including a $33 billion reduction due to the sale of BrownCo. Assets under management were $873 billion, up 11%, or $83 billion, from the prior year. The increase was primarily the result of market appreciation and net asset inflows driven by retail flows from third-party distribution, primarily in equity-related products, and institutional flows in liquidity products. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit balances were $324 billion, up $22 billion, after reflecting a $33 billion reduction from the sale of BrownCo.
 
 
 
CORPORATE
For a discussion of the business profile of Corporate, see pages 5354 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. For additional information regarding enhanced disclosures related to the Corporate segment, refer to page 13 of this Form 10Q.
As a result of the pending transaction with The Bank of New York, certain of the corporate trust businesses were transferred from TSS to the Corporate segment during the second quarter of 2006, and are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
Quarterly results
Net loss was $366 million compared with a net loss of $1.3 billion in the prior year. In comparison to the prior year, Private Equity earnings were $103 million, down from $437 million; Treasury net loss was $272 million compared with a net loss of $829 million; and the net loss in Other Corporate (excluding discontinued operations) was $251 million compared with a net loss of $946 million.
Net revenue was negative $407 million compared with negative $761 million in the prior year. Net interest income was negative $547 million compared with negative $675 million in the prior year. Treasury was the primary driver of the improvement, with net interest income of negative $281 million compared with negative $411 million in the prior year. The benefit was due primarily to an improvement in Treasury's net interest spread, offset partially by a reduction in the level of the available-for-sale securities portfolio. Noninterest revenue was $140 million compared with negative $86 million, reflecting lower Treasury securities portfolio losses of $158 million compared with losses of $902 million in the prior year. This increase was offset partially by lower Private Equity gains of $237 million compared with gains of $789 million in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $332 million, down $1.2 billion from $1.5 billion in the prior year. Excluding in the current quarter, $71 million of merger costs and incremental expense of $57 million from the adoption of SFAS 123R, and excluding in the prior year a material litigation charge of $900 million, primarily related to WorldCom, and $145 million of merger costs, noninterest expense would have been down $236 million. The decrease in expense was due to merger-related savings and other efficiencies.
 
 
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at March 31, 2006, stands at $6.3 billion, down $936 million from March 31, 2005. The portfolio decline was primarily due to sales activity.
 
BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS
Balance sheet overview
The Firm has announced the exchange of certain portions of the corporate trust business for the consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York. The corporate trust businesses to be transferred includes trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management. In connection with the exchange of the corporate trust businesses, JPMorgan Chase will transfer to The Bank of New York on the closing date certain customer assets and liabilities; however, JPMorgan Chase has not reclassified any assets or liabilities of discontinued operations held-for-sale in the Consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005.
At March 31, 2006, the Firm's total assets were $1.3 trillion, an increase of $74.3 billion, or 6%, from December 31, 2005. Growth was primarily in Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements, Securities borrowed, AFS securities, Trading assets  debt and equity instruments, and Loans.
At March 31, 2006, the Firm's total liabilities were $1.2 trillion, an increase of $73.2 billion, or 7%, from December 31, 2005. Growth was primarily in Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, interest-bearing U.S. and Non-U.S. deposits, and debt and equity trading liabilities.
 
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements and Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
During the first quarter of 2006, the Firm's liability growth outpaced growth on the asset side of the balance sheet resulting in an increase in short-term investments, specifically Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements.
Trading assets and liabilities  debt and equity instruments
The Firm's debt and equity trading instruments consist primarily of fixed income securities (including government and corporate debt) and equity and convertible cash instruments used for both market-making and proprietary risk-taking activities. The increase over December 31, 2005, was due primarily to growth in client-driven market-making activities across interest rate, credit and equity markets. For additional information, refer to Note 3 on page 66 of this Form 10Q.
Trading assets and liabilities  derivative receivables and payables
The Firm uses various interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, credit and commodity derivatives for market-making, proprietary risk-taking and risk-management purposes. The increase from December 31, 2005, was due primarily to increased interest rate, equity and commodity trading activity and rising commodity prices. For additional information, refer to Credit risk management and Note 3 on pages 4354 and 66, respectively, of this Form 10Q.
Securities
The AFS portfolio increased by $19.5 billion from 2005 year-end, primarily due to purchases in the Treasury investment securities portfolio. For additional information related to securities, refer to the Corporate segment discussion and to Note 8 on pages 3334 and 72, respectively, of this Form 10Q.
Loans
The $12.9 billion increase in gross loans was due primarily to an increase of $14.7 billion in the wholesale portfolio, mainly in the IB, reflecting an increase in capital markets activity, including leveraged financings and syndications and higher balances of loans held-for-sale. The $1.8 billion decrease in consumer loans was primarily due to a decline of $7.0 billion in the credit card portfolio, partially offset by an increase of $6.0 billion in education loans. The decrease in the credit card portfolio was primarily due to the seasonal pattern and higher-than-normal customer payment rates of credit card receivables. The increase in education loans was the result of the purchase of Collegiate Funding Services. Management believes the higher-than-normal customer payment rates in Card Services may partially be related to the recently implemented new minimum payment rules. For a more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the Allowance for loan losses, refer to Credit risk management on pages 4354 of this Form 10Q.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets
The $1.3 billion increase in Goodwill and Other intangible assets primarily resulted from higher MSRs due to growth in the servicing portfolio and an overall increase in the MSR valuation from improved market conditions, as well as the acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services. Partially offsetting the increase were declines from the amortization of purchased credit card relationships and core deposit intangibles. For additional information, see Note 14 on pages 7981 of this Form 10Q.
Deposits
Deposits increased by 5% from December 31, 2005. Retail deposits increased, reflecting growth from new account acquisitions and the ongoing expansion of the retail branch distribution network. Wholesale deposits were higher driven by growth in business volumes. For more information on deposits, refer to the RFS segment discussion and the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 1722 and 4243, respectively, of this Form 10Q. For more information on liability balances, refer to the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 2627 and 2829, respectively, of this Form 10Q.
Long-term debt and capital debt securities
Long-term debt and capital debt securities increased by $3.2 billion, or 3%, from December 31, 2005, primarily due to net new issuances of long-term debt offset partially by a redemption of capital debt securities. The Firm took advantage of narrow credit spreads globally to satisfy long-term debt and capital debt securities needs in the first quarter of 2006. Consistent with its liquidity management policy, the Firm has raised funds at the parent holding company sufficient to cover its obligations and those of its nonbank subsidiaries that mature over the next 12 months. Large investor cash positions and increased foreign investor participation in the corporate markets allowed JPMorgan Chase to diversify further its funding sources across the global markets while lengthening maturities at historically attractive costs. For additional information on the Firm's long-term debt activity, see the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 4243 of this Form 10Q.
Stockholders' equity
Total stockholders' equity increased by $1.1 billion from year-end 2005 to $108.3 billion at March 31, 2006. The increase was the result of net income for the first three months of 2006, common stock issued under employee plans and the beneficial effect of changes in accounting principles. This increase was offset partially by payment of cash dividends, stock repurchases, the redemption of $139 million of preferred stock and net unrealized losses in Accumulated other comprehensive income. For a further discussion of capital, see the Capital management section that follows.
 
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The following discussion of JPMorgan Chase's Capital Management highlights developments since December 31, 2005, and should be read in conjunction with pages 5658 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report .
The Firm's capital management framework is intended to ensure that there is capital sufficient to support the underlying risks of the Firm's business activities, as measured by economic risk capital and to maintain "well-capitalized" status under regulatory requirements. In addition, the Firm holds capital above these requirements in amounts deemed appropriate to achieve management's regulatory and debt-rating objectives. The process of assigning equity to the lines of business is integrated into the Firm's capital framework.
Line of business equity
Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes the business would require if it were operating independently, incorporating sufficient capital to address economic risk measures, regulatory capital requirements and capital levels for similarly rated peers. Return on equity is measured and internal targets for expected returns are established as a key measure of a business segment's performance.
Effective January 1, 2006, the Firm refined its methodology for allocating capital to the lines of business. As a result of this refinement, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management have higher amounts of capital allocated to them, commencing in the first quarter of 2006, while the amount of capital allocated to the Investment Bank has remained unchanged. The revised methodology considers for each line of business, among other things, goodwill associated with such line of business' acquisitions since the Merger. In management's view, the revised methodology assigns responsibility to the lines of business to generate returns on the amount of capital supporting acquisition-related goodwill. As part of this refinement in the capital allocation methodology, the Firm assigned to the Corporate segment an amount of equity capital equal to the then-current book value of goodwill from and prior to the Merger. As prior periods have not been revised to reflect the new capital allocations, capital allocated to the respective lines of business for 2006 is not comparable to prior periods and certain business metrics, such as ROE, are not comparable to the current presentation. The Firm may revise its equity capital allocation methodology again in the future. In accordance with SFAS 142, the lines of business will continue to perform the required goodwill impairment testing. For a further discussion of goodwill and impairment testing, see Critical accounting estimates and Note 15 on pages 8183 and 114116, respectively, of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
 
Economic risk capital
JPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the risks underlying the Firm's business activities, utilizing internal risk-assessment methodologies. The Firm assigns economic capital based primarily upon four risk factors: credit risk, market risk and operational risk for each business; in addition, the Firm assigns capital based on private equity risk to the Corporate segment in connection with the segment's private equity business.
Regulatory capital
The Firm's federal banking regulator, the Federal Reserve Board ("FRB"), establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards for the consolidated financial holding company. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC") establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Firm's national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank and Chase Bank USA, National Association.
In the first quarter of 2006, the federal banking regulatory agencies issued a final rule that makes permanent an interim rule issued in 2000 that provides regulatory capital relief for certain cash-collateralized securities borrowed transactions. The final rule, which became effective February 22, 2006, also broadens the types of transactions qualifying for regulatory capital relief under the interim rule. Adoption of the rule did not have a material effect on the Firm's capital ratios.
On March 1, 2005, the FRB issued a final rule, which became effective April 11, 2005, that continues the inclusion of trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital, subject to stricter quantitative limits and revised qualitative standards, and broadens the definition of restricted core capital elements. The rule provides for a five-year transition period. As an internationally active bank holding company, JPMorgan Chase is subject to the rule's limitation on restricted core capital elements, including trust preferred securities, to 15% of total core capital elements, net of goodwill less any associated deferred tax liability. At March 31, 2006, JPMorgan Chase's restricted core capital elements were 15.7% of total core capital elements. JPMorgan Chase expects to be in compliance with the 15% limit by the March 31, 2009, implementation date.
 
The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries at March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005:
 
Tier 1 capital was $73.1 billion at March 31, 2006, compared with $72.5 billion at December 31, 2005, an increase of $611 million. The increase was due primarily to net income of $3.1 billion and net issuances of common stock under employee plans of $903 million. Offsetting these increases were changes in equity net of other comprehensive income due to dividends declared of $1.2 billion and redemptions of preferred stock and common share repurchases totaling $1.4 billion, as well as the redemption of qualifying trust preferred securities and an increase in the deduction for goodwill and other nonqualifying intangibles. Additional information regarding the Firm's capital ratios and the federal regulatory capital standards to which it is subject is presented in Note 24 on pages 121122 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
Dividends
The Firm's common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan Chase's earnings outlook, desired payout ratios, need to maintain an adequate capital level and alternative investment opportunities. In the first quarter of 2006, JPMorgan Chase declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of $0.34 per share, payable April 30, 2006, to stockholders of record at the close of business April 6, 2006. The Firm continues to target a dividend payout ratio of 30-40% of net income over time.
Stock repurchases
On March 21, 2006, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program which authorizes the repurchase of up to $8 billion of the Firm's common shares. The new stock repurchase program replaces the Firm's previous repurchase authorization. The amount authorized includes shares to be repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm's employee stock-based plans. The actual amount of shares repurchased will be subject to various factors, including market conditions; legal considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm's capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative potential investment opportunities. The repurchase program does not include specific price targets or time tables; may be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any time.
During the first quarter of 2006, under the stock repurchase programs then in effect, the Firm repurchased a total of 31.8 million shares for $1.3 billion at an average price per share of $40.54. Of the $1.3 billion of shares repurchased in the first quarter of 2006, $1.1 billion was repurchased under the original $6 billion stock repurchase program, and $143 million was repurchased under the new $8 billion stock repurchase program. During the first quarter of 2005, under the original $6 billion stock repurchase program, the Firm repurchased 36.0 million shares for $1.3 billion at an average price per share of $36.57. As of March 31, 2006, $7.9 billion of authorized repurchase capacity remained under the new stock repurchase program.
 
For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm's equity securities, see Part II, Item 2, Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds, on pages 9495 of this Form 10Q.
OFFBALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS
Special-purpose entities
JPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of offbalance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities ("SPEs"), lines of credit and loan commitments. The principal uses of SPEs are to obtain sources of liquidity for JPMorgan Chase and its clients by securitizing financial assets, and to create other investment products for clients. These arrangements are an important part of the financial markets, providing market liquidity by facilitating investors' access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. For example, SPEs are integral to the markets for mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and other asset-backed securities.
JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories: loan securitizations, multi-seller conduits and client intermediation. Capital is held, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-related transactions and related exposures, such as derivative transactions and lending-related commitments. For a further discussion of SPEs and the Firm's accounting for them, see Note 1 on page 91, Note 13 on pages 108111 and Note 14 on pages 111113 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report .
For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm could be required to provide funding if the credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded below specific levels, primarily P-1, A-1 and F1 for Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch, respectively. The amount of these liquidity commitments was $73.8 billion and $71.3 billion at March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, respectively. Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded, the Firm could be replaced by another liquidity provider in lieu of providing funding under the liquidity commitment, or, in certain circumstances, could facilitate the sale or refinancing of the assets in the SPE in order to provide liquidity.
Of its $73.8 billion in liquidity commitments to SPEs at March 31, 2006, $42.6 billion was included in the Firm's other unfunded commitments to extend credit and asset purchase agreements, included in the following table. Of the $71.3 billion of liquidity commitments to SPEs at December 31, 2005, $38.9 billion was included in the Firm's other unfunded commitments to extend credit and asset purchase agreements. As a result of the Firm's consolidation of multi-seller conduits in accordance with FIN 46R, $31.2 billion of these commitments are excluded from the table at March 31, 2006, compared with $32.4 billion at December 31, 2005, as the underlying assets of the SPEs have been included on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets.
The Firm also has exposure to certain SPEs arising from derivative transactions; these transactions are recorded at fair value on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets with changes in fair value (i.e., MTM gains and losses) recorded in Trading revenue. Such MTM gains and losses are not included in the revenue amounts reported in the table below.
The following table summarizes certain revenue information related to consolidated and nonconsolidated variable interest entities ("VIEs") with which the Firm has significant involvement, and to qualifying SPEs ("QSPEs"). The revenue reported in the table below primarily represents servicing and credit fee income. For a further discussion of VIEs and QSPEs, see Note 1, Note 13 and Note 14, on pages 91, 108111 and 111113, respectively, of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report .
Revenue from VIEs and QSPEs
 
 
Offbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment or the Firm fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and the counterparty subsequently fails to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees expire without a default occurring or without being drawn. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm's view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. Further, certain commitments, primarily related to consumer financings, are cancelable upon notice at the option of the Firm. For a further discussion of lending-related commitments and guarantees and the Firm's accounting for them, see Credit risk management on pages 6372 and Note 27 on pages 124125 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
The following table presents offbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees for the periods indicated:
 
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase's business activities. The Firm's risk management framework and governance structure is intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoing management of the major risks inherent in its business activities. In addition, this framework recognizes the diversity among the Firm's core businesses, which helps reduce the impact of volatility in any particular area on the Firm's operating results as a whole. There are eight major risk types identified in the business activities of the Firm: liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and reputation risk, fiduciary risk and private equity risk.
For a further discussion of these risks see pages 6080 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
 
LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT
The following discussion of JPMorgan Chase's liquidity management framework highlights developments since December 31, 2005, and should be read in conjunction with pages 6162 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of the Firm's activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities. JPMorgan Chase's liquidity management framework is intended to maximize liquidity access and minimize funding costs. Through active liquidity management, the Firm seeks to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of funding. This enables the Firm to replace maturing obligations when due and fund assets at appropriate maturities and rates. To accomplish this task, management uses a variety of liquidity risk measures that take into consideration market conditions, prevailing interest rates, liquidity needs and the desired maturity profile of liabilities.
Funding
Sources of funds
Consistent with its liquidity management policy, the Firm has raised funds at the parent holding company sufficient to cover its obligations and those of its nonbank subsidiaries that mature over the next 12 months. Long-term funding needs for the parent holding company over the next several quarters are expected to be consistent with prior periods.
As of March 31, 2006, the Firm's liquidity position remained strong based upon its liquidity metrics. JPMorgan Chase's long-dated funding, including core deposits, exceeds illiquid assets, and the Firm believes its obligations can be met even if access to funding is impaired.
The diversity of the Firm's funding sources enhances financial flexibility and limits dependence on any one source, thereby minimizing the cost of funds. The deposits held by the RFS, CB and TSS lines of business are a stable and consistent source of funding for JPMorgan Chase Bank. As of March 31, 2006, total deposits for the Firm were $584 billion, which represented 66% of the Firm's funding liabilities. A significant portion of the Firm's retail deposits are "core" deposits, which are less sensitive to interest rate changes and therefore are considered more stable than market-based deposits. Core deposits include all U.S. deposits insured by the FDIC, up to the legal limit of $100,000 per depositor. Throughout the first quarter of 2006, core bank deposits remained at approximately the same level as at the 2005 year-end. In addition to core retail deposits, the Firm benefits from substantial, geographically diverse corporate liability balances originated by TSS and CB through the normal course of business. These franchise-generated core liability balances are also a stable and consistent source of funding due to the nature of the businesses from which they are generated. For a further discussion of deposit and liability balance trends, see Business Segment Results and Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 13 and 3536, respectively, of this Form 10Q.
Additional sources of funds include a variety of both short- and long-term instruments, including federal funds purchased, commercial paper, bank notes, medium- and long-term debt, and capital debt securities. This funding is managed centrally, using regional expertise and local market access, to ensure active participation in the global financial markets while maintaining consistent global pricing. These markets serve as a cost-effective and diversified source of funds and are a critical component of the Firm's liquidity management. Decisions concerning the timing and tenor of accessing these markets are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
Finally, funding flexibility is provided by the Firm's ability to access the repo and asset securitization markets. These markets are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriate balance of secured and unsecured funding. The ability to securitize loans, and the associated gains on those securitizations, are principally dependent upon the credit quality and yields of the assets securitized and are generally not dependent upon the credit ratings of the issuing entity. Transactions between the Firm and its securitization structures are reflected in JPMorgan Chase's consolidated financial statements; these relationships include retained interests in securitization trusts, liquidity facilities and derivative transactions. For further details, see Offbalance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations and Notes 12 and 19 on pages 4041, 7477 and 8384, respectively, of this Form 10Q.
 
Issuance
Corporate credit spreads tightened modestly in the first quarter of 2006 across most industries and sectors. On an historical basis, credit spreads remain near historic tight levels as corporate profits are generally healthy and investor demand remains strong. JPMorgan Chase's credit spreads performed in line with peer spreads.
During the first quarter of 2006, JPMorgan Chase issued approximately $12.4 billion of long-term debt and capital debt securities. These issuances were offset partially by $9.3 billion of long-term debt and capital debt securities that matured or were redeemed and by the Firm's redemption of $139 million of preferred stock. In addition, during the first quarter of 2006 the Firm securitized approximately $3.2 billion of residential mortgage loans and approximately $4.5 billion of credit card loans, resulting in pre-tax gains on securitizations of $89 million and $30 million, respectively. The Firm did not securitize any automobile loans during the first quarter of 2006. For a further discussion of loan securitizations, see Note 12 on pages 7477 of this Form 10Q.
Credit ratings
The credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase's parent holding company and each of its significant banking subsidiaries were, as of March 31, 2006, as follows:
The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by credit ratings. A reduction in these ratings could adversely affect the Firm's access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend. Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources and strong liquidity monitoring procedures.
If the Firm's ratings were downgraded by one notch, the Firm estimates the incremental cost of funds and the potential loss of funding to be negligible. Additionally, the Firm estimates the additional funding requirements for VIEs and other third-party commitments would not be material. In the current environment, the Firm believes a downgrade is unlikely. For additional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives and collateral agreements, see Special-purpose entities on pages 4041 and Ratings profile of derivative receivables mark-to-market ("MTM") on page 48, of this Form 10Q.
CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT
The following discussion of JPMorgan Chase's credit portfolio as of March 31, 2006, highlights developments since December 31, 2005, and should be read in conjunction with pages 6374 and page 81, and Notes 11,12, 27, and 28 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
The Firm assesses its consumer credit exposure on a managed basis, which includes credit card securitizations. For a reconciliation of the Provision for credit losses on a reported basis to managed basis, see pages 1112 of this Form 10Q.
 
CREDIT PORTFOLIO
The following table presents JPMorgan Chase's credit portfolio as of March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005. Total credit exposure at March 31, 2006, increased by $29.5 billion from December 31, 2005, reflecting an increase of $18.4 billion and $11.1 billion in the wholesale and consumer credit portfolios, respectively. In the table below, reported loans include all HFS loans, which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value with changes in value recorded in Other income. However, these HFS loans are excluded from the average loan balances used for the net charge-off rate calculations.
 
 
WHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO
As of March 31, 2006, wholesale exposure (IB, CB, TSS and AWM) increased by $18.4 billion from December 31, 2005, due primarily to $14.7 billion in loan growth. As described on page 36 of this Form 10Q, the increase in Loans was primarily in the IB, reflecting an increase in capital markets activity, including leveraged financings and syndications and higher balances of loans held-for-sale.
Net charge-offs/recoveries
Wholesale net recoveries were $20 million compared with net recoveries of $9 million in the prior year, primarily due to lower gross charge-offs. The net recovery rate was 0.06% compared with a net recovery rate of 0.03% for the prior year. These net recoveries do not include $20 million of gains from sales of nonperforming loans that were sold from the credit portfolio during the first quarter of 2006. This compares with $8 million of gains from nonperforming loans sold from the credit portfolio in the same period in the prior year. When it is determined that a loan will be sold, it is transferred into a held-for-sale account. HFS loans are accounted for at lower of cost or fair value, with changes in value recorded in Other income.
 
Below are summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale portfolio as of March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005. The ratings scale is based upon the Firm's internal risk ratings and is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis.
Wholesale exposure
 
Wholesale credit exposure  selected industry concentration
The Firm continues to focus on the management and diversification of its industry concentrations, with particular attention paid to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. As of March 31, 2006, the top 10 industry exposure remained predominantly unchanged compared with December 31, 2005, with the exception of exposures to Securities firms and exchanges, which increased primarily as a result of changes in derivatives exposures. Below is a summary of the Top 10 industry concentrations as of March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005.
Wholesale criticized exposure
Exposures deemed criticized generally represent a ratings profile similar to a rating of CCC+/Caa1 and lower, as defined by Standard & Poor's/Moody's. At March 31, 2006, the top 10 criticized industries exposure remained predominantly unchanged compared with December 31, 2005, with Healthcare moving into the top 10, replacing Airlines.
The criticized component of the portfolio decreased to $5.1 billion (excluding HFS loans) at March 31, 2006, from $5.2 billion at year-end 2005, reflecting stable credit quality. Wholesale nonperforming assets (excluding purchased held-for-sale wholesale loans) decreased by $260 million to $799 million at March 31, 2006, from $1.1 billion at December 31, 2005, due primarily to loan sales, repayments and gross charge-offs.
Wholesale criticized exposure  industry concentrations
 
Derivative contracts
In the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative instruments to meet the needs of customers; to generate revenues through trading activities; to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, currencies and other markets; and to manage the Firm's credit exposure. For a further discussion of derivative contracts, see Note 18 on page 83 of this Form 10Q, and pages 6770 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts and the reported derivative receivables (i.e., the MTM or fair value of the derivative contracts after taking into account the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements) at each of the dates indicated:
Notional amounts and derivative receivables marked-to-market ("MTM")
The MTM of derivative receivables contracts represents the cost to replace the contracts at current market rates should the counterparty default. When JPMorgan Chase has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists with that counterparty, the netted MTM exposure, less collateral held, represents, in the Firm's view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk.
The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm's Derivative receivables MTM, net of cash and other liquid securities collateral for the dates indicated:
Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM
 
The Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk in derivatives. The percentage of the Firm's derivatives transactions subject to collateral agreements decreased slightly, to 80% as of March 31, 2006, from 81% at December 31, 2005. The Firm posted $26 billion and $27 billion of collateral as of March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, respectively.
Certain derivative and collateral agreements include provisions that require the counterparty and/or the Firm, upon specified downgrades in their respective credit ratings, to post collateral for the benefit of the other party. As of March 31, 2006, the impact of a single-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, from its current rating of AA- to A+, would have been an additional $1.2 billion of collateral posted by the Firm; the impact of a six-notch ratings downgrade (from AA- to BBB-) would have been $3.5 billion of additional collateral. Certain derivative contracts also provide for termination of the contract, generally upon a downgrade of either the Firm or the counterparty, at the then-existing MTM value of the derivative contracts.
Credit derivatives
The following table presents the Firm's notional amounts of credit derivatives protection purchased and sold by the respective businesses as of March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005:
Credit derivatives positions
In managing wholesale credit exposure, the Firm purchases single-name and portfolio credit derivatives; this activity does not reduce the reported level of assets on the balance sheet or the level of reported offbalance sheet commitments. The Firm also diversifies exposures by providing (i.e., selling) credit protection, which increases exposure to industries or clients where the Firm has little or no client-related exposure. This activity is not material to the Firm's overall credit exposure.
JPMorgan Chase has limited counterparty exposure as a result of credit derivatives transactions. Of the $53 billion of total Derivative receivables MTM at March 31, 2006, approximately $4 billion, or 7%, was associated with credit derivatives, before the benefit of liquid securities collateral.
Dealer/client
As of March 31, 2006, the total notional amount of protection purchased and sold in the dealer/client business increased by $607 billion from year-end 2005 as a result of increased trade volume in the market. This business has a mismatch between the total notional amounts of protection purchased and sold. However, in the Firm's view, the risk positions are largely matched when securities used to risk manage certain derivative positions are taken into consideration and the notional amounts are adjusted to a duration-based equivalent basis or to reflect different degrees of subordination in tranched structures.
Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives
 
Credit portfolio management activities
The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for credit portfolio management activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, and therefore, effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 is not performed. These derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains and losses recognized in Principal transactions. The MTM value incorporates both the cost of credit derivative premiums and changes in value due to movement in spreads and credit events; in contrast, the loans and lending-related commitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. Loan interest and fees are generally recognized in Net interest income, and impairment is recognized in the Provision for credit losses. This asymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans and lending-related commitments and the credit derivatives utilized in credit portfolio management activities, causes earnings volatility that is not representative, in the Firm's view, of the true changes in value of the Firm's overall credit exposure. The MTM related to the Firm's credit derivatives used for managing credit exposure, as well as the mark related to the CVA, which reflects the credit quality of derivatives counterparty exposure, are included in the table below:
The Firm also actively manages wholesale credit exposure through loan and commitment sales. During the first quarters of 2006 and 2005, the Firm sold $665 million and $944 million of loans and commitments, respectively, recognizing gains of $20 million and $11 million, respectively. These activities are not related to the Firm's securitization activities, which are undertaken for liquidity and balance sheet management purposes. For a further discussion of securitization activity, see Note 12 on pages 7477 of this Form 10Q.
Lending-related commitments
The contractual amount of wholesale lending-related commitments was $323 billion at March 31, 2006, compared with $321 billion at December 31, 2005. In the Firm's view, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not representative of the Firm's actual credit risk exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments, which is used as the basis for allocating credit risk capital to these instruments, the Firm has established a "loan-equivalent" amount for each commitment; this amount represents the portion of the unused commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected, based upon average portfolio historical experience, to become outstanding in the event of a default by an obligor. The loan equivalent amount of the Firm's lending-related commitments was $178 billion as of both March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005.
Country exposure
The Firm has a comprehensive process for measuring and managing exposures and risk in emerging markets countries  defined as those countries potentially vulnerable to sovereign events. Exposures to a country include all credit-related lending, trading, and investment activities, whether cross-border or locally funded. Exposure amounts are adjusted for credit enhancements (e.g., guarantees and letters of credit) provided by third parties located outside the country, if the enhancements fully cover the country risk as well as the business risk. As of March 31, 2006, the Firm's exposure to any individual emerging markets country was not material.
 
CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO
JPMorgan Chase's consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential mortgages, home equity loans, credit cards, auto loans and leases, education loans and loans to small businesses. The domestic consumer portfolio reflects the benefit of diversification from both a product and a geographical perspective. The primary focus is on serving the prime consumer credit market.
The following table presents managed consumer creditrelated information for the dates indicated:
 
Consumer credit quality trends reflect continued underlying credit quality. Total managed consumer loans as of March 31, 2006, were $337 billion, down from $340 billion at year-end 2005, reflecting the seasonal pattern and higher-than-normal customer payment rates of credit card receivables, partially offset by an increase in education loans as a result of the purchase of Collegiate Funding Services. Consumer lending-related commitments increased by 2%, to $669 billion at March 31, 2006, reflecting a general increase across most Retail Financial Services and Card Services portfolios. The following discussion relates to the specific loan and lending-related categories within the consumer portfolio:
Retail Financial Services
Loan balances for Retail Financial Services were $203 billion at March 31, 2006, an increase of $5 billion from December 31, 2005. The increase was driven primarily by the $6 billion increase in education loans as a result of the acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services on March 1, 2006. The net charge-off rate for the first quarter of 2006 was 0.27%, a decrease from 0.34% in the first quarter of 2005. The decrease reflected the benefits of stable credit trends in most consumer lending portfolios and the sale of the recreational vehicle loan portfolio in the first quarter of 2005.
The Firm proactively manages its retail credit operation. Ongoing efforts include continual review and enhancement of credit underwriting criteria and refinement of pricing and risk management models.
Home Equity loans on the balance sheet at March 31, 2006, were $75 billion, an increase of $1 billion from year-end 2005. The portfolio reflects a high concentration of prime quality credits. There are no products in the Home Equity portfolio that result in negative amortization.
Home Equity:
Mortgage loans on the balance sheet at March 31, 2006, were $58 billion, a decrease of $1 billion from year-end 2005. Credit metrics were affected by the decision in early 2005 to retain, rather than securitize, subprime mortgage loans. Mortgage loans include some interest-only payment options to predominantly prime borrowers. There are no products in the mortgage portfolio that result in negative amortization.
Mortgage:
As of March 31, 2006, Auto loans and leases were $45 billion, a decrease of $1 billion from year-end 2005. The decrease in outstanding loans was caused partially by the de-emphasis of vehicle leasing, which comprised $4 billion of outstanding loans as of March 31, 2006. It is anticipated that over time vehicle leases will account for a smaller share of balance sheet receivables and exposure. The Auto loans and leases portfolio reflects a high concentration of prime quality credits.
Auto loans and leases:
As of March 31, 2006, other consumer loans were $25 billion, an increase of $7 billion from year-end 2005, primarily due to an increase in Education loans as a result of the acquisition of the Collegiate Funding Services education loan portfolio. Other loans also include small business banking loans (which are highly collateralized loans, often with personal loan guarantees) and community development loans.
All other loans:
Card Services
JPMorgan Chase analyzes its credit card portfolio on a managed basis, which includes credit card receivables on the consolidated balance sheet and those receivables sold to investors through securitization. Managed credit card receivables were $134 billion at March 31, 2006, a decrease of $8 billion from year-end 2005, reflecting the normal seasonal pattern and higher-than-normal customer payment rates, which management believes may partially be related to the recently implemented new minimum payment rules.
The managed credit card net charge-off rate decreased to 2.99% in the first quarter of 2006 from 4.83% in the first quarter of 2005. This decrease was due primarily to lower bankruptcy-related net charge-offs, which based upon an estimate by management, was lower by $475 million following the accelerated bankruptcy filings in the fourth quarter of 2005. The 30-day delinquency rate increased to 3.10% on March 31, 2006 from 2.79% on December 31, 2005, primarily driven by accelerated loss recognition of delinquent accounts on December 31, 2005 following the significant 2005 fourth-quarter increase in bankruptcy filings. The managed credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned portfolio that has good U.S. geographic diversification.
 
ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
For further discussion of the components of the Allowance for credit losses, see Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm on page 81 and Note 12 on pages 107108 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. At March 31, 2006, management deemed the allowance for credit losses to be sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio, including losses that are not specifically identified or for which the size of the loss has not yet been fully determined.
Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses
 
Excluding held-for-sale loans, the total allowance for loan losses represented 1.83% of total loans at March 31, 2006, compared with 1.84% at December 31, 2005. The wholesale component of the allowance increased to $2.7 billion as of March 31, 2006, from $2.5 billion at year-end 2005, primarily due to loan growth in the Investment Bank. The consumer allowance remained relatively unchanged from year-end 2005.
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the Firm's process of extending credit, management also computes an asset-specific component and a formula-based component for lendingrelated commitments. These components are computed using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loan portfolio, but modified for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown. This allowance, which is reported in Other liabilities, was $384 million and $400 million at March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, respectively.
Provision for credit losses
For a discussion of the reported Provision for credit losses, see page 9 of this Form 10Q. The managed provision for credit losses includes credit card securitizations. For the three months ended March 31, 2006, securitized credit card losses were lower compared with the prior year, primarily as a result of lower bankruptcy-related charge-offs in Card Services.
 
MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT
For a discussion of the Firm's market risk management organization, see pages 7578 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
Value-at-risk ("VAR")
JPMorgan Chase's primary statistical risk measure, VAR, estimates the potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment and provides a consistent cross-business measure of risk profiles and levels of diversification. VAR is used for comparing risks across businesses, monitoring limits, one-off approvals, and as an input to economic capital calculations. VAR provides risk transparency in a normal trading environment. Each business day the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VAR calculation that includes both its trading and its nontrading activities. VAR for nontrading activities measures the amount of potential change in the fair values of the exposures related to these activities; however, for such activities, VAR is not a measure of reported revenue since nontrading activities are generally not marked to market through earnings. The Firm calculates VAR using a one-day time horizon and an expected tail-loss methodology, which approximates a 99% confidence level. This means the Firm would expect to incur losses greater than that predicted by VAR estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about 2.5 times a year. For a further discussion of the Firm's VAR methodology, see pages 7577 of JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report.
Trading VAR
IB trading VAR by risk type and credit portfolio VAR
IB's average total trading and credit portfolio VAR increased during the first quarter of 2006 to $94 million compared with $70 million for the same period in 2005. The increase was driven by higher VAR for commodities and equities, which also contributed to increased portfolio diversification. Total Trading VAR diversification increased to $68 million, or 43% of the sum of the components, from $43 million, or 40% of the sum of the components. In general, over the course of the year, VAR exposures can vary significantly as trading positions change, market volatility fluctuates and diversification benefits change.
 
VAR backtesting
To evaluate the soundness of its VAR model, the Firm conducts daily backtesting of VAR against daily financial results based upon market risk-related revenue. Market risk-related revenue is defined as the change in value of the mark-to-market trading portfolios plus any trading-related net interest income, brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or other revenue. The following histogram illustrates the daily market risk-related gains and losses for the IB trading businesses for the three months ended March 31, 2006. The chart shows that the IB posted market risk-related gains on 57 out of 65 days in this period, with 4 days exceeding $100 million. The inset graph looks at those days on which the IB experienced losses and depicts the amount by which VAR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days. Losses were sustained on 8 days, with only one day with a loss greater than $50 million, and with no loss exceeding the VAR measure.
Economic value stress testing
While VAR reflects the risk of loss due to unlikely events in normal markets, stress testing captures the Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. The Firm conducts economic-value stress tests for both its trading and its nontrading activities using multiple scenarios for both types of activities. Periodically, scenarios are reviewed and updated to reflect changes in the Firm's risk profile and economic events. Stress testing is as important as VAR in measuring and controlling risk. Stress testing enhances the understanding of the Firm's risk profile and loss potential, and is used for monitoring limits, one-off approvals and cross-business risk measurement, as well as an input to economic capital allocation.
Based upon the Firm's stress scenarios, the stress test loss (pre-tax) in the IB's trading portfolio ranged from $848 million to $1.3 billion, and from $469 million to $745 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2006, and March 31, 2005, respectively.
 
Earnings-at-risk stress testing
The VAR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total economic sensitivity of the Firm's balance sheet to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate exposure on reported Net income also is critical. Interest rate risk exposure in the Firm's core nontrading business activities (i.e., asset/liability management positions) results from on and offbalance sheet positions. The Firm conducts simulations of changes in NII from its nontrading activities under a variety of interest rate scenarios, which are consistent with the scenarios used for economic-value stress testing. Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change in the Firm's Net interest income over the next 12 months and highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors, such as the rates themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing strategies on deposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The tests include forecasted balance sheet changes, such as asset sales and securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior.
Earnings-at-risk also can result from changes in the slope of the yield curve, because the Firm has the ability to lend at fixed rates and borrow at variable or short-term fixed rates. Based upon these scenarios, the Firm's earnings would be affected negatively by a sudden and unanticipated increase in short-term rates without a corresponding increase in long-term rates. Conversely, higher long-term rates generally are beneficial to earnings, particularly when the increase is not accompanied by rising short-term rates.
Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk, and so a number of alternative scenarios also are reviewed. These scenarios include the implied forward curve, nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rate shocks on selected key rates. These scenarios are intended to provide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan Chase's earnings-at-risk over a wide range of outcomes.
JPMorgan Chase's 12-month pre-tax earnings sensitivity profile as of March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, were as follows:
The primary change in earnings-at-risk from December 31, 2005, reflects a higher level of AFS securities and other Treasury repositioning. The Firm's risk to rising and falling interest rates is due primarily to corresponding increases and decreases in short-term funding costs.
OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT
For a discussion of JPMorgan Chase's operational risk management, refer to page 79 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
REPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT
For a discussion of the Firm's Reputation and Fiduciary Risk Management, see page 80 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
PRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT
For a discussion of Private Equity Risk Management, see page 80 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. At March 31, 2006, the carrying value of the private equity portfolios of the JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners businesses was $6.3 billion, of which $501 million represented positions traded in the public market.
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Supervision and Regulation section on pages 1-4 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Form 10K.
Dividends
At March 31, 2006, JPMorgan Chase's bank subsidiaries could pay, in the aggregate, $9.1 billion in dividends to their respective bank holding companies without prior approval of their relevant banking regulators.
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM
JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment to ascertain the valuation of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established detailed policies and control procedures intended to ensure that valuation methods, including any judgments made as part of such methods, are well controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from period to period. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates for determining the valuation of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. For a further description of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significant management valuation judgments, see pages 8183 and the Notes to consolidated financial statements in JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses covers the wholesale and consumer loan portfolios as well as the Firm's portfolio of wholesale lending-related commitments. The Allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the value of the Firm's loan assets for probable credit losses as of the balance sheet date. For a further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing the Firm's allowance for credit losses, see Note 12 on pages 107108 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The methodology for calculating the Allowance for loan losses and the Allowance for lending-related commitments involves significant judgment. For a further description of these judgments, see Allowance for credit losses on page 81 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report; for amounts recorded as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, see allowance for credit losses on page 53, and Note 11 on page 74 of this Form 10Q.
Fair value of financial instruments
A portion of JPMorgan Chase's assets and liabilities are carried at fair value, including trading assets and liabilities, AFS securities, private equity investments and mortgage servicing rights. Held-for-sale loans and physical commodities are carried at the lower of cost or market. At March 31, 2006, approximately $427 billion of the Firm's assets were recorded at fair value.
Trading and available-for-sale portfolios
The following table summarizes the Firm's trading and available-for-sale portfolios by valuation methodology at March 31, 2006:
 
ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS
Accounting for Share-Based Payments
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which revises SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued SAB 107, which provides interpretive guidance on SFAS 123R. Accounting and reporting under SFAS 123R is generally similar to the SFAS 123 approach. The Firm adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, under the modified prospective method. For additional information related to SFAS 123R, see Note 6 on pages 6871 of this Form 10Q.
Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 155, which applies to certain "hybrid financial instruments," which are instruments that contain embedded derivatives. The new standard establishes a requirement to evaluate beneficial interests in securitized financial assets to determine if the interests represent freestanding derivatives or are hybrid financial instruments containing embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation. It also permits an election for fair value remeasurement of any hybrid financial instrument containing an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation under SFAS 133. The Firm adopted this standard effective January 1, 2006. For additional information related to SFAS 155, see Note 1 on page 64 of this Form 10Q.
Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets
In the first quarter of 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 156, which is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after September 15, 2006, with early adoption permitted. JPMorgan Chase has elected to adopt the standard effective January 1, 2006. The standard permits an entity a one-time irrevocable election to adopt fair value accounting for a class of servicing assets. The Firm has defined MSRs as one class of servicing assets for this election. For additional information related to the Firm's adoption of SFAS 156 with respect to MSRs, see Note 14 on page 80 of this Form 10-Q.
Accounting for Variable Interest Entities
In April 2006, the FASB issued FSP FIN 46(R)-6, which requires an analysis of the design of a VIE in determining the variability to be considered in the application of FIN 46(R). The guidance in this FSP will be applied prospectively as of July 1, 2006 to all entities with which the Firm first becomes involved after such date and to all entities previously required to be analyzed under FIN 46(R) when a reconsideration event occurs after such date. The Firm expects to arrive at similar consolidation conclusions under the FSP as those reached currently under FIN 46(R).
 
 
The Firm has announced the exchange of certain portions of the corporate trust business for the consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York. The corporate trust businesses to be transferred includes trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management. In connection with the exchange of the corporate trust businesses, JPMorgan Chase will transfer to The Bank of New York on the closing date certain customer assets and liabilities; however, JPMorgan Chase has not reclassified any assets or liabilities of discontinued operations held-for-sale in the Consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005.
 
 
 
NOTE 1  BASIS OF PRESENTATION
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm"), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States, with operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction processing, investment management, private banking and private equity. For a discussion of the Firm's business segment information, see Note 20 on pages 8486.
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and prevailing industry practices. Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities. The unaudited consolidated financial statements prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could be different from these estimates. In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments have been included for a fair statement of this interim financial information. These unaudited consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements included in JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2005 ("2005 Annual Report").
Certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments
SFAS 155 applies to certain "hybrid financial instruments" which are instruments that contain embedded derivatives. The standard establishes a requirement to evaluate beneficial interests in securitized financial assets to determine if the interests represent freestanding derivatives or are hybrid financial instruments containing embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation. SFAS 155 also permits an election for fair value measurement of any hybrid financial instrument containing an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation under SFAS 133. The fair value election can be applied to existing instruments on an instrument-by-instrument basis at the date of adoption and can be applied to new instruments on a prospective basis.
The Firm adopted SFAS 155 effective January 1, 2006. The Firm has elected to fair value all instruments issued, acquired or modified after December 31, 2005, that are required to be bifurcated under SFAS 133/149 and SFAS 155. In addition, the Firm elected to fair value certain structured notes existing as of December 31, 2005, resulting in a $22 million cumulative effect increase to Retained earnings. The cumulative effect adjustment includes gross unrealized gains of $29 million and gross unrealized losses of $7 million.
The substantial majority of the structured notes to which the fair value election has been applied are classified in Long-term debt on the Consolidated balance sheets. The change in fair value associated with structured notes is classified within Principal transactions on the Consolidated statements of income.
Restatement of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
As reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Firm on August 3, 2006, the Firm has filed an amended 2005 Form 10-K to restate the Consolidated statements of cash flows for the annual periods of 2005, 2004 and 2003 and an amended Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, to restate the Consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the quarterly periods of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006. The restatements did not affect the Firm's Consolidated statements of income, Consolidated balance sheets or Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity for any of the affected periods. Accordingly, the Firm's historical revenues, net income, earnings per share, total assets and regulatory capital remain unchanged.
The restatements result solely from the misclassification of cash flows related to certain residential mortgages and other loans that had been originated or purchased with the intent to sell. The cash flows from these loans had been classified as investing activities. However, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 102, "Statement of Cash FlowsExemption of Certain Enterprises and Classification of Cash Flows from Certain Securities Acquired for Resale," cash flows from these loans should have been, and in the future will be, classified as operating activities, rather than investing activities. Accordingly, the restatements solely affect the classification of these activities and the subtotals of cash flows from operating and investing activities presented in the affected Consolidated statements of cash flows, but they will have no impact on the net increase (decrease) in total Cash and due from banks set forth in the Consolidated statements of cash flows for any of the previously reported periods.
The Consolidated statements of cash flows for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005, September 30, 2005 and March 31, 2006, as previously reported and as restated, are reflected on the following pages.
 
 
 
NOTE 2  BUSINESS CHANGES AND DEVELOPMENTS
Acquisition of the consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York in exchange for certain portions of the corporate trust business, including trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses
On April 8, 2006, JPMorgan Chase announced an agreement to acquire The Bank of New York's consumer, small-business and middle-market banking businesses in exchange for certain portions of the Firm's corporate trust business plus a cash payment of $150 million. The Bank of New York businesses being acquired are valued at a premium of $2.30 billion; the Firm's corporate trust businesses being transferred (i.e., trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses) are valued at a premium of $2.15 billion. The Firm may also make a future payment to The Bank of New York of up to $50 million depending on certain new account openings. JPMorgan Chase expects to recognize an after-tax gain of approximately $600-$700 million. The transaction has been approved by both companies' boards of directors and is subject to regulatory approvals. It is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Acquisition of Kohl's private label credit card portfolio
On March 5, 2006, JPMorgan Chase entered into an agreement with Kohl's Corporation ("Kohl's") to acquire $1.6 billion of Kohl's private label credit card receivables and 13 million accounts. The transaction was completed on April 21, 2006. JPMorgan Chase and Kohl's have also entered into an agreement under which JPMorgan Chase will offer private label credit cards to both new and existing Kohl's customers.
 
Collegiate Funding Services
On March 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired, for approximately $663 million, Collegiate Funding Services, a leader in education loan servicing and consolidation. This acquisition included $6 billion of education loans and enables the Firm to create a comprehensive education finance business.
Acquisition of certain operations from Paloma Partners
On March 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired the middle and back office operations of Paloma Partners Management Company ("Paloma"), which is part of a privately-owned investment fund management group based in Greenwich, CT. The parties have also entered into a multi-year contract pursuant to which JPMorgan Chase will provide daily operational services to Paloma. The acquired operations will be combined with JPMorgan Chase's current hedge fund administration unit, JPMorgan Tranaut.
JPMorgan and Fidelity Brokerage Company
On February 28, 2006, the Firm announced a strategic alliance with Fidelity Brokerage to become the exclusive provider of new issue equity securities and the primary provider of fixed income products to Fidelity's brokerage clients and retail customers, effectively expanding the Firm's existing distribution platform.
Sale of insurance underwriting business
On February 7, 2006, JPMorgan Chase announced that it had agreed to sell its life insurance and annuity underwriting businesses to Protective Life Corporation for a cash purchase price of approximately $1.2 billion. The sale, which includes both the heritage Chase insurance business and the life business that Bank One had bought from Zurich Insurance in 2003, is subject to normal regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the third quarter of 2006. JPMorgan Chase anticipates the transaction will have no material impact on earnings.
NOTE 3PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONS
Principal transactions is a new caption, effective January 1, 2006, in the Consolidated income statements. Principal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities including physical commodities inventories that are accounted for at the lower of cost or market, primarily in the Investment Bank, and Private equity gains (losses), primarily in the private equity business of Corporate. The prior period presentation of Trading revenue and Private equity gains (losses) have been reclassified to this new caption. The following table presents Principal transactions revenue:
For a discussion of the accounting policies related to Trading assets and Trading liabilities and Private equity investments, see Notes 3 and 9 on pages 94 and 103105, respectively, of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
 
Trading assets and liabilities
The following table presents the fair value of Trading assets and Trading liabilities for the dates indicated:
The following table presents the carrying value and cost of the Private Equity investment portfolio for the dates indicated:
 
NOTE 4  INTEREST INCOME AND INTEREST EXPENSE
Details of Interest income and Interest expense were as follows:
NOTE 5  PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
For a discussion of JPMorgan Chase's pension and OPEB plans, see Note 6 on pages 96100 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated statements of income for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan:
The fair value of plan assets for the U.S. pension and OPEB plans and material non-U.S. pension plans was $11.1 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, as of March 31, 2006, and $10.9 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2005.
 
NOTE 6  EMPLOYEE STOCK-BASED INCENTIVES
The Firm has granted restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), stock options, and stock-settled stock appreciation rights ("SARs") to certain of its employees, as further discussed below. The Firm's policy for issuing shares upon settlement of employee share-based payment awards is to issue either new shares of common stock or treasury shares. For the three months ended March 31, 2006, the Firm issued new shares of common stock to settle employee share-based payment awards.
Key employee stock-based awards
Effective May 17, 2005, the Firm adopted the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2005" Plan"). The 2005 Plan replaces three previous stock compensation plans (collectively, the "LTI Plans"). Under the terms of the 2005 Plan, 275 million shares of common stock are available for issuance during its five-year term. The 2005 Plan is the only plan under which the Firm is currently granting stock-based incentive awards.
Restricted stock and restricted stock units
Restricted stock and RSUs were granted under the LTI Plans at no cost to the recipient. These awards are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have lapsed, including continued employment for a specified period. The recipient of a share of restricted stock is entitled to voting rights and dividends on the common stock. An RSU entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock after the applicable restrictions lapse; the recipient is entitled to receive cash payments equivalent to any dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the period the RSU is outstanding. Effective January 2005, the equity portion of the Firm's annual incentive awards is granted primarily in the form of RSUs.
Compensation expense for restricted stock and RSUs is measured based upon the number of shares granted multiplied by the stock price at the grant date, and is recognized in earnings over the required service period.
The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase's restricted stock and RSU activity for the three months ended March 31, 2006:
The total fair value of shares vested during the three months ended March 31, 2006, and March 31, 2005, was $932.0 million and $982.7 million, respectively.
Key employee stock options and SARs
Under the LTI Plans, stock options and SARs are granted with an exercise price equal to JPMorgan Chase's common stock price on the grant date. Generally, options and SARs cannot be exercised until at least one year after the grant date and become exercisable over various periods as determined at the time of the grant. These awards generally expire 10 years after the grant date.
The Firm uses the Black-Scholes valuation model to estimate the fair value of all stock options and SARs. Compensation expense, which is measured at the grant-date as the fair value of stock options and SARs, is recognized in earnings on a straight-line basis over the required service period.
 
The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase's option and SARs activity for the three months ended March 31, 2006:
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2006, and March 31, 2005, was $11.83 and $12.10, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the three months ended March 31, 2006, and March 31, 2005, was $213.7 million and $94.4 million, respectively.
Broad-based employee stock options
No broad-based employee stock options were granted in 2005, or in the three months ended March 31, 2006. In prior years, awards were granted by JPMorgan Chase under the Value Sharing Plan, a nonshareholder-approved plan. For each grant, the exercise price was equal to JPMorgan Chase's common stock price on the grant date. The options became exercisable over various periods and generally expire 10 years after the grant date.
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan Chase's broad-based employee stock option activity for the three months ended March 31, 2006:
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, was $36.4 million and $15.1 million, respectively.
Compensation expense related to stock-based incentives
JPMorgan Chase adopted SFAS 123, effective January 1, 2003, using the prospective transition method. SFAS 123 requires all stock-based compensation awards, including stock options and "SARs", to be accounted for at fair value. Unmodified stock options that were outstanding as of December 31, 2002, continued to be accounted for under APB 25 through December 31, 2005, using the intrinsic value method. Under this method, no expense was recognized for stock options or SARs granted at an exercise price equal to the stock price on the grant date, since such options have no intrinsic value.
Effective January 1, 2006, the Firm adopted SFAS 123R and all related interpretations using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including employee stock options and SARs, to be recognized in the income statement at their fair values. Results for prior periods have not been restated. The Firm also adopted the transition election provided by FSP FAS .
123(R)-3
Upon adopting SFAS 123R, the Firm began to recognize in the income statement compensation expense for unvested stock options previously accounted for under APB 25. Additionally, the Firm recognized as compensation expense an immaterial cumulative effect adjustment resulting from the requirement to estimate forfeitures at the grant date instead of recognizing them as incurred. Prior to adopting SFAS 123R, the Firm's accounting policy for share-based payment awards granted to retirement-eligible employees was to recognize compensation cost over the awards' stated service period. For awards granted to retirement-eligible employees in January 2006, which are subject to SFAS 123R, the Firm recognized compensation expense on the grant date without giving consideration to the impact of post-employment restrictions. The Firm also began to accrue in the first quarter of 2006 the estimated cost of stock awards to be granted to retirement-eligible employees in January 2007. The incremental expense in the first quarter of 2006 related to the Firm's adoption of SFAS 123R was $458.7 million. This amount represents a noncash charge and an accelerated recognition of costs that would otherwise have been incurred in future periods.
 
The Firm recognized noncash compensation expense related to its various employee stock-based incentives of $839.2 million (including the $458.7 million incremental impact of adopting SFAS 123R) and $380.9 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, and March 31, 2005, respectively, in its Consolidated statements of income. The total income tax benefit related to stock-based compensation arrangements recognized in the Firm's Consolidated statements of income for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2005, was $335.7 million and $152.4 million, respectively. At March 31, 2006, $1.8 billion of compensation cost related to unvested awards has not yet been charged to earnings. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.5 years. The Firm does not capitalize any compensation cost related to share-based payment awards to employees.
As a result of adopting SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, the Firm's Income from continuing operations before income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2006, was lower by $458.3 million, and Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2006, was lower by $285 million, than if the Firm had continued to account for share-based compensation under APB 25 and SFAS 123. The Firm's reported basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2006, were $0.87 and $0.85, respectively. Had the Firm not adopted SFAS 123R, basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2006, would have been $0.95 and $0.93, respectively.
The Firm's share-based payment awards generally have graded vesting schedules, with typically two vesting tranches: 50 percent vests in two years, and 50 percent vests in three years. The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense for each tranche of each award as if it were a separate award with its own vesting date. For each tranche granted (other than those granted to employees who either are or will become retirement eligible during the stated vesting period), compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis from the grant date until the vesting date of the respective tranche.
In December 2005, the Firm accelerated the vesting of approximately 41 million unvested, out-of-the-money employee stock options granted in 2001 under the Growth and Performance Incentive Program ("GPIP"), which were scheduled to vest in January 2007. These options were not modified other than to accelerate vesting. The related expense was approximately $145 million, and was recognized as compensation expense in the fourth quarter of 2005. The Firm believed that at the time the options were accelerated they had limited economic value since the exercise price of the accelerated options was $51.22 and the closing price of the Firm's common stock on the effective date of the acceleration was $39.69.
Cash flows and tax benefits
Prior to adopting SFAS 123R, the Firm presented all tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options as operating cash flows in its Consolidated statements of cash flows. SFAS 123R requires the cash flows resulting from the tax benefits of tax deductions in excess of the compensation expense recognized for those options (i.e., excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows. The $134.7 million of excess tax benefits classified as a financing cash inflow in the quarter ended March 31, 2006, would have been classified as an operating cash inflow if the Firm had not adopted SFAS 123R. Cash received from option exercise under all share-based payment arrangements for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, and March 31, 2005, was $534.2 million and $173.4 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized related to tax deductions from the exercise of options totaled $51.4 million and $16.6 million, for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, and March 31, 2005, respectively.
Comparison of the fair and intrinsic value measurement methods
The following table presents net income and basic and diluted earnings per share as reported, and as if all outstanding awards were accounted for at fair value for 2005 only, as all share-based payments in 2006 were accounted for at fair value.
 
The following table presents the assumptions used to value key employee stock options and SARs granted during the period under a Black-Scholes valuation model:
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Firm used the historical volatility of its common stock price as the expected volatility assumption in valuing options. The Firm is currently evaluating whether the implied volatility of actively traded options on its own stock would represent a better valuation assumption.
The expected life assumption is an estimate of the length of time that an employee might hold an option before option exercise, option expiration or employment termination. The expected life assumption was developed using historical experience.
NOTE 7  NONINTEREST EXPENSE
In the first quarter of 2006, Other expense includes insurance recoveries relating to certain material litigation of $98 million. In the first quarter of 2005, a litigation reserve charge of $900 million, relating to the settlement of WorldCom class action, was included in Other expense.
Merger costs
A summary of Merger costs by expense category is shown in the following table:
The table below shows the change in the liability balance related to the costs associated with the Merger:
 
NOTE 8  SECURITIES
For a discussion of accounting policies relating to Securities, see Note 9 on pages 103105 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS securities:
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and held-to-maturity securities were as follows for the dates indicated:
 
NOTE 9  SECURITIES FINANCING ACTIVITIES
For a discussion of the accounting policies relating to Securities financing activities, see Note 10 on pages 105106 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The following table details the components of Securities financing activities at each of the dates indicated:
JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments the Firm owns to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) on the Consolidated balance sheets.
At March 31, 2006, the Firm had received securities as collateral that could be repledged, delivered or otherwise used with a fair value of approximately $347 billion. This collateral was generally obtained under resale or securities borrowing agreements. Of these securities, approximately $330 billion were repledged, delivered or otherwise used, generally as collateral under repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements or to cover short sales.
 
NOTE 10  LOANS
For a discussion of the accounting policies relating to Loans, see Note 11 on pages 106107 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The composition of the loan portfolio at each of the dates indicated was as follows:
 
The following table reflects information about the Firm's loans held-for-sale, principally mortgage-related:
 
NOTE 11 ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
For a discussion of the Allowance for credit losses and the related accounting policies, see Note 12 on pages 107108 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for loan losses:
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for lending-related commitments:
NOTE 12  LOAN SECURITIZATIONS
For a discussion of the accounting policies relating to loan securitizations, see Note 13 on pages 108111 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. JPMorgan Chase securitizes, sells and services various consumer loans, such as consumer real estate, credit card and automobile loans, as well as certain wholesale loans (primarily commercial real estate) originated by the Investment Bank. In addition, the Investment Bank purchases, packages and securitizes wholesale and consumer loans. All IB activity is collectively referred to below as Wholesale activities. JPMorgan Chasesponsored securitizations utilize special purpose entities ("SPEs") as part of the securitization process. These SPEs meet the definition of a "qualifying" special purpose entity ("QSPE"), as discussed in Note 1 on page 91 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report; accordingly, the assets and liabilities of securitization-related QSPEs are included on the balance sheet of the QSPE purchasing the assets and are not reflected in the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets (except for retained interests, as described below). Assets held by securitizationrelated QSPEs as of March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, were as follows:
 
The following table summarizes new securitization transactions that were completed during the first quarters of 2006 and 2005, the resulting gains arising from such securitizations, certain cash flows received from such securitizations, and the key economic assumptions used in measuring the retained interests, as of the dates of such sales:
In addition to securitization transactions, the Firm sold residential mortgage loans totaling $13.6 billion and $11.3 billion during the first quarters of 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily as GNMA, FNMA and Freddie Mac mortgage-backed securities; these sales resulted in pre-tax gains of $10 million and $37 million, respectively.
At March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, the Firm had, with respect to its credit card master trusts, $18.1 billion and $24.8 billion, respectively, related to undivided interests, and $3.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, related to subordinated interests in accrued interest and fees on the securitized receivables, net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts. Credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest of 4% to 12% of the principal receivables in the trusts. The Firm maintained an average undivided interest in principal receivables in the trusts of approximately 22% for the three months ended March 31, 2006, and 23% for the year ended December 31, 2005.
The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits for some credit card and automobile securitizations in the unlikely event of deficiencies in cash flows owed to investors. The amounts available in such escrow accounts are recorded in Other assets and, as of March 31, 2006, amounted to $214 million and $61 million for credit card and automobile securitizations, respectively; as of December 31, 2005, these amounts were $754 million and $76 million for credit card and automobile securitizations, respectively.
The table below summarizes other retained securitization interests, which are primarily subordinated or residual interests and are carried at fair value on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets:
 
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value of the other retained interests at March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, respectively, and outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions:
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical. Changes in fair value based upon a 10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated easily, because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another assumption, which might counteract or magnify the sensitivities.
 
The table below presents information about delinquencies, net credit losses and components of reported and securitized financial assets at March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005:
NOTE 13  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES
Refer to Note 1 on page 91 and Note 14 on pages 111113 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report for a further description of JPMorgan Chase's policies regarding consolidation of variable interest entities ("VIEs") as well as the utilization of VIEs by the Firm.
Multi-seller conduits
The following table summarizes the Firm's involvement with Firm-administered multi-seller conduits:
 
The Firm views its credit exposure to multi-seller conduit transactions as limited. This is because, for the most part, the Firm is not required to fund under the liquidity facilities if the assets in the VIE are in default. Additionally, the Firm's obligations under the letters of credit are secondary to the risk of first loss provided by the customer or other third parties  for example, by the overcollateralization of the VIE with the assets sold to it or notes subordinated to the Firm's liquidity facilities.
Client intermediation
Assets held by credit-linked and municipal bond vehicles at March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, were as follows:
The Firm may enter into transactions with VIEs structured by other parties. These transactions can include, for example, acting as a derivative counterparty, liquidity provider, investor, underwriter, placement agent, trustee or custodian. These transactions are conducted at arm's length, and individual credit decisions are based upon the analysis of the specific VIE, taking into consideration the quality of the underlying assets. JPMorgan Chase records and reports these positions similarly to any other third-party transaction. These activities do not cause JPMorgan Chase to absorb a majority of the expected losses of the VIEs or to receive a majority of the residual returns of the VIE, and they are not considered significant for disclosure purposes.
Consolidated VIE assets
The following table summarizes the Firm's total consolidated VIE assets, by classification, on the Consolidated balance sheets, as of March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005:
The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs are classified in the line item titled, "Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities" on the Consolidated balance sheets. The holders of these beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase.
 
NOTE 14  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
For a discussion of accounting policies related to Goodwill and Other intangible assets, see Note 15 on pages 114116 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
Goodwill and other intangible assets consist of the following:
Goodwill
As of March 31, 2006, goodwill increased by $278 million compared with December 31, 2005, principally in connection with the acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services. Partially offsetting this increase were reductions resulting from purchase accounting adjustments related to the November 15, 2005, acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business. Goodwill was not impaired at March 31, 2006, or December 31, 2005, nor was any goodwill written off due to impairment during either the three months ended March 31, 2006 or March 31, 2005.
Goodwill attributed to the business segments was as follows:
 
Mortgage servicing rights
For a further description of the mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs") asset, interest rate risk management, and valuation methodology of MSRs, see Note 15 on pages 114116 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The following tables summarize MSR activity during the first quarters of 2006 and 2005.
CPR: Constant prepayment rate
JPMorgan Chase uses a combination of derivatives, AFS securities and trading instruments to manage changes in the fair value of MSRs. The intent is to offset any changes in the fair value of MSRs with changes in the fair value of the related risk management instruments. MSRs decrease in value when interest rates decline. Conversely, securities (such as mortgagebacked securities), principal-only certificates and certain derivatives (when the Firm receives fixedrate interest payments) increase in value when interest rates decline. Contractual service fees, late fees, and other ancillary fees earned for the three months ended March 31, 2006 were $490 million, which is recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
In the first quarter of 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 156. The standard is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after September 15, 2006, with early adoption permitted. JPMorgan Chase elected to adopt the standard effective January 1, 2006. The standard permits an entity a one-time irrevocable election to adopt fair value accounting for a class of servicing assets. The Firm has defined MSRs as one class of servicing assets for this election. This election is accounted for as a change in accounting principle. The difference between the fair value and the carrying amount, net of any related valuation allowance, of the MSRs as of the date of the initial application of the subsequent fair value measurement was recorded as a cumulativeeffect adjustment to retained earnings of $150 million as of the beginning of the fiscal year. With the adoption of SFAS 156, changes in the fair values of the MSRs will be recorded in Mortgage fees and related income
For the three months ended March 31, 2005, MSRs were accounted for under SFAS 140, using a lower of cost or market method, with applicable hedging activity accounted for under SFAS 133. Changes to the valuation allowance represented the extent to which the carrying value of the MSR asset exceeded its estimated fair value for its applicable SFAS 140 strata. Changes in the valuation allowance were the result of recognition of impairment or the recovery of previously recognized impairment charges due to changes in market conditions during the period. The changes in the valuation allowance for MSRs are identified above.
 
Purchased credit card relationships and All other intangible assets
For the three months ended March 31, 2006, Purchased credit card relationship intangibles decreased by $32 million as a result of $185 million in amortization expense, partially offset by increases from purchase accounting adjustments related to the November 15, 2005, acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business. During the three months ended March 31, 2006, all other intangible assets remained flat, as intangibles resulting predominantly from the acquisition of the Sears credit card business were offset by $182 million in amortization expense. Except for $513 million of indefinite-lived intangibles related to asset management advisory contracts which are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually, the remainder of the Firm's other acquired intangible assets are subject to amortization.
The components of credit card relationships, core deposits and other intangible assets were as follows:
Future amortization expense
The following table presents estimated amortization expenses related to credit card relationships, core deposits and All other intangible assets at March 31, 2006:
 
NOTE 15  EARNINGS PER SHARE
For a discussion of the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") see Note 20 on page 119 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005:
NOTE 16  ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) includes the after-tax change in unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities, cash flow hedging activities and foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of related derivatives).
 
NOTE 17  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Litigation reserve
The Firm maintains litigation reserves for certain of its outstanding litigation, including material legal proceedings. While the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain, management believes, in light of all information known to it at March 31, 2006, the Firm's litigation reserves were adequate at such date. Management reviews litigation reserves periodically, and the reserves may be increased or decreased in the future to reflect further litigation developments. The Firm believes it has meritorious defenses to claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding litigation and, with respect to such litigation, intends to continue to defend itself vigorously, litigating or settling cases according to management's judgment as to what is in the best interest of stockholders.
NOTE 18  ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
The majority of JPMorgan Chase's derivatives are entered into for trading purposes. Derivatives are also utilized by the Firm as an end-user to hedge market exposures, to modify the interest rate characteristics of related balance sheet instruments or to meet longer-term investment objectives. Both trading and end-user derivatives are recorded in Trading assets and Trading liabilities. For a further discussion of the Firm's use of and accounting policies regarding derivative instruments, see pages 6770 and Note 26 on page 123 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The following table presents derivative instrument hedging-related activities for the periods indicated:
Over the next 12 months, it is expected that $26 million (after-tax) of net gains recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at March 31, 2006, will be recognized in earnings. The maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is 10 years, and such transactions primarily relate to core lending and borrowing activities.
NOTE 19  OFFBALANCE SHEET LENDING-RELATED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND GUARANTEES
For a discussion of offbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees, and the Firm's related accounting policies, see Note 27 on pages 124125 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. To provide for the risk of loss inherent in wholesale-related contracts an allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments is maintained. See Note 11 on page 74 for a further discussion regarding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments.
The following table summarizes the contractual amounts of offbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees and the related allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005:
Offbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
 
For a discussion of the offbalance sheet lending-related arrangements the Firm considers to be guarantees under FIN 45, and the related accounting policies, see Note 27 on pages 124125 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The amount of the liability related to FIN 45 guarantees recorded at March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, excluding commitments and derivative contracts discussed above, was $315 million and $313 million, respectively.
In addition to the contracts described above, there are certain derivative contracts to which the Firm is a counterparty that meet the characteristics of a guarantee under FIN 45. For a discussion of the derivatives the Firm considers to be guarantees, and the related accounting policies, see Note 27 on pages 124125 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report. The total notional value of the derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees was $65 billion and $62 billion at March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, respectively. The fair value related to these contracts was a derivative receivable of $197 million and $198 million, and a derivative payable of $945 million and $767 million at March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, respectively.
NOTE 20  BUSINESS SEGMENTS
JPMorgan Chase is organized into six major reportable business segments (the Investment Bank ("IB"), Retail Financial Services ("RFS"), Card Services ("CS"), Commercial Banking ("CB"), Treasury & Securities Services ("TSS") and Asset & Wealth Management ("AWM")), as well as a Corporate segment. The segments are based upon the products and services provided or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis. For a definition of managed basis, see the footnotes to the table below. For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan Chase's business segments, see Business segment results on page 13, and pages 3435 and Note 31 on pages 130131 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Annual Report.
Business segment financial disclosures
Effective January 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase modified certain of its financial disclosures to reflect more closely the manner in which the Firm's business segments are managed and to provide improved comparability with competitors. These financial statements and the financial information for prior periods has been revised to reflect the disclosure changes as if they had been in effect throughout 2005. A summary of the changes are described below.
Reported versus Operating Basis Changes
The presentation of operating earnings that excluded merger costs and material litigation reserve charges and recoveries from reported results has been eliminated. These items had been excluded previously from operating results because they were deemed nonrecurring; they are now included in the Corporate business segment's results. In addition, trading-related net interest income is no longer reclassified from Net interest income to trading revenue. As a result of these changes, effective January 1, 2006, management has discontinued reporting on an "operating" basis.
Business Segment Disclosures
Effective January 1, 2006, various wholesale banking clients, together with the related revenue and expense, are being transferred between CB, the IB and TSS. In the first quarter of 2006, the primary client transfer was corporate mortgage finance from CB to the IB.
Certain expenses that are managed by the business segments, but that had been previously recorded in Corporate and allocated to the businesses, are now recorded as direct expenses within the businesses.
Capital allocation changes
Effective January 1, 2006, the Firm refined its methodology for allocating capital (i.e. equity) to the business segments. As a result of this refinement, RFS, CS, CB, TSS and AWM have higher amounts of capital allocated to them, commencing in the first quarter of 2006, while the amount of capital allocated to the IB has remained unchanged. The revised methodology considers for each line of business, among other things, goodwill associated with such business segment's acquisitions since the Merger. In management's view, the revised methodology assigns responsibility to the lines of business to generate returns on the amount of capital supporting acquisition-related goodwill. As part of this refinement in the capital allocation methodology, the Firm assigned to the Corporate segment an amount of equity capital equal to the then-current book value of goodwill from and prior to the Merger. As prior periods have not been revised to reflect the new capital allocations, capital allocated to the respective lines of business for 2006 is not
 
comparable to prior periods and certain business metrics, such as ROE, are not comparable to the current presentation. The Firm may revise its equity capital allocation methodology again in the future.
Discontinued operations and business segment changes
As a result of the pending transaction with The Bank of New York, certain portions of the corporate trust business were transferred from TSS to the Corporate segment during the second quarter of 2006 and reported in discontinued operations for all periods reported.
The following table provides a summary of the Firm's segment results for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, on a managed basis. The impact of credit card securitization adjustments have been included in Reconciling items so that the total Firm results are on a reported basis. Finally, Total net revenue (Noninterest revenue and Net interest income) for each of the segments is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits are presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This approach allows management to assess the comparability of revenues arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense (benefit). The following table summarizes the business segment results and reconciliation to reported U.S. GAAP results.
Segment results and reconciliation
(a)
 
 
NOTE 21SUBSEQUENT EVENTS: DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS SEGMENT CHANGES
The pending transfer of certain portions of the corporate trust business to The Bank of New York (see Note 2 on page 64C) includes the trustee, paying agent, loan agency services and document management businesses. JPMorgan Chase expects to recognize an after-tax gain of approximately $600-$700 million. The results of operations of such corporate trust businesses have been transferred from the Treasury & Securities Services ("TSS") business to the Corporate segment, and are currently reported as discontinued operations (see Note 20 on pages 84-86). Condensed results of operations of the corporate trust business follows:
In connection with the above-mentioned exchange of the corporate trust businesses, JPMorgan Chase will transfer to The Bank of New York on the closing date certain customer assets and liabilities; however, JPMorgan Chase has not reclassified any assets or liabilities of discontinued operations held-for-sale in the Consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005.
JPMorgan Chase will provide certain transitional services to The Bank of New York for a defined period of time after the closing date. The Bank of New York will compensate JPMorgan Chase for these transitional services.
 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Automated Clearing House.
ACH:
Accounting Principles Board Opinion.
APB:
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."
APB 25:
Represent assets actively managed by Asset & Wealth Management on behalf of institutional, private banking, private client services and retail clients. Excludes assets managed by American Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 43% ownership interest.
Assets under management:
Represent assets under management as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Assets under supervision:
Refers to total assets on the Firm's balance sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Average managed assets:
In accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bankruptcy, whichever is earlier.
Contractual credit card charge-off:
are contractual agreements that provide protection against a credit event of one or more referenced credits. The nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer and protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to meet payment obligations when due. The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a credit event.
Credit derivatives
a period of time over which credit quality improves, deteriorates and then improves again. While portfolios may differ in terms of risk, the credit cycle is typically driven by many factors, including market events and the economy. The duration of a credit cycle can vary from a couple of years to several years.
Credit cycle:
A component of an entity that is classified as held-for-sale or that has been disposed of from ongoing operations in its entirety or piecemeal, and for which the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement. A discontinued operation may be a separate major business segment, a component of a major business segment or a geographical area of operations of the entity that can be separately distinguished operationally and for financial reporting purposes.
Discontinued operations:
Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FASB:
FASB Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts."
FIN 39:
FASB Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirement for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others."
FIN 45:
FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51."
FIN 46R:
"Determining the Variability to be Considered in Applying FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)."
FSP FIN 46(R)-6:
"Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards."
FSP FAS 123(R)-3:
Represent an ownership interest in a percentage of cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables transferred by a third-party seller into a bankruptcy remote entity, generally a trust, and then financed through a commercial paper conduit.
Interests in Purchased Receivables:
An indication of credit quality based upon JPMorgan Chase's internal risk assessment system. "Investment-grade" generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a BBB-/Baa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
Investment-grade:
There was a $98 million insurance recovery in the first quarter 2006 and a $900 million charge taken in the first quarter of 2005; both of which relate to certain of the legal cases named in the JPMorgan Chase Quarterly Report on Form 10Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.
Litigation reserve charges and recoveries:
Includes reclassifications related to credit card securitizations and taxable equivalents. Management uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the segment level because it believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors in understanding the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
Managed Basis:
Refers to credit card receivables on the Firm's balance sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Managed Credit Card Receivables:
A measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market value is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan Chase and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for the Firm. When the mark-to-market value is negative, JPMorgan Chase owes the counterparty. In this situation, the Firm does not have repayment risk.
Mark-to-market exposure:
 
An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or termination of any one contract. See FIN 39.
Master netting agreement:
Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.
NA:
The average rate for interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
Not meaningful.
NM:
Other postretirement employee benefits.
OPEB:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.
Overhead ratio:
Represents Trading revenue (which includes physical commodities carried at the lower of cost or market), primarily in the Investment Bank, plus Private equity gains (losses), primarily in the Private Equity business of Corporate.
Principal Transactions:
Financial statements prepared under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations, but excludes the impact of taxable equivalent adjustments.
Reported Basis:
Represents net income applicable to common stock divided by total average common equity (net of goodwill). The Firm uses return on equity less goodwill, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the operating performance of the Firm. The Firm also utilizes this measure to facilitate comparisons to other competitors.
Return on common equity less goodwill:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS:
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."
SFAS 123:
"Share-Based Payment."
SFAS 123R:
"Earnings per Share."
SFAS 128:
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."
SFAS 133:
"Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125."
SFAS 140:
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
SFAS 142:
"Amendment of Statement No. 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."
SFAS 149:
"Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140."
SFAS 155:
"Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 140."
SFAS 156:
"Application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment."
Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 107:
A scenario that measures market risk under unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets.
Stress testing:
The financial statements and information included throughout this document are unaudited and have not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent certified public accountant to express an opinion.
Unaudited:
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
U.S. GAAP:
Obligations of the U.S. government or an instrumentality of the U.S. government whose obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
U.S. government and federal agency obligations:
Obligations of agencies originally established or chartered by the U.S. government to serve public purposes as specified by the U.S. Congress; these obligations are not explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations:
A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Value-at-Risk ("VAR"):
 
LINE OF BUSINESS METRICS
Investment Banking
IB's revenues comprise the following:
includes advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.
Investment banking fees
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets, including government and corporate debt, foreign exchange, interest rate and commodities markets.
Fixed income markets
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives and convertibles.
Equities markets
includes Net interest income, fees and loan sale activity for IB's credit portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment ("CVA"), which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty. Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the Firm's lending and derivative activities.
Credit portfolio revenue
Retail Financial Services
Description of selected business metrics within Regional Banking:
 Retail branch office personnel who acquire, retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assessing customer needs and recommending and selling appropriate banking products and services.
Personal bankers
 Retail branch office personnel who specialize in the marketing of a single product, including mortgages, investments and business banking, by partnering with the personal bankers.
Sales specialists
Mortgage banking revenues comprise the following:
includes Mortgage Servicing Rights created from the sales of loans, net gains or losses on the sales of loans, and other production-related fees. Also includes revenue associated with originations of subprime mortgage loans.
Production income
Mortgage servicing income
(b) Changes in MSR asset fair value due to:
Mortgage Banking's origination channels comprise the following:
 Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home are directly contacted by a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.
Retail
 A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for loans.
Wholesale
 Correspondents are banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm. Correspondent negotiated transactions occur when mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis. These transactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportunities in the servicing portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.
Correspondent (including negotiated transactions)
 
Card Services
Description of selected business metrics within Card Services:
 Represents the dollar amount of cardmember purchases, balance transfers and cash advance activity.
Charge volume
 Includes originations, purchases and sales.
Net accounts opened
 Represents an entity that processes payments for merchants. JPMorgan Chase is a partner in Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC.
Merchant acquiring business
 Represents the dollar amount of transactions processed for the merchants.
Bank card volume
 Represents the number of transactions and authorizations processed for the merchants.
Total transactions
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking revenues comprise the following:
includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are often provided on a basis secured by receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets. Products include Term loans, Revolving lines of credit, Bridge financing, Asset-backed structures, and Leases.
Lending
includes a broad range of products and services enabling clients to transfer, invest and manage the receipt and disbursement of funds, while providing the related information reporting. These products and services include U.S. dollar and multi-currency clearing, ACH, Lockbox, Disbursement and reconciliation services, Check deposits, Other check and currency-related services, Trade finance and logistics solutions, Commercial card, and Deposit products, sweeps and money market mutual funds.
Treasury services
products provide clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives, as well as balance sheet and risk management tools through Loan syndications, Investment-grade debt, Asset-backed securities, Private placements, High-yield bonds, Equity underwriting, Advisory, Interest rate derivatives, and Foreign exchange hedges.
Investment banking
Description of selected business metrics within commercial banking:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to onbalance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial paper, Fed funds purchased, and repurchase agreements).
Liability balances
 Represents 100% of the revenue related to investment banking products for which there is a sharing agreement between Commercial Banking and the Investment Bank and for the investment banking products that are sold through Commercial Banking.
IB revenues, gross
Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services include certain TSS product revenues and liability balances reported in other lines of business related to customers who are also customers of those other lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenues, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenues and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary, in management's view, in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
firmwide metrics
Description of selected business metrics within Treasury & Securities Services:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to onbalance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial paper, Fed funds purchased, and repurchase agreements).
Liability balances
Asset & Wealth Management
AWM's client segments comprise the following:
serves large and mid-size corporate and public institutions, endowments and foundations, and governments globally. AWM offers these institutions comprehensive global investment services, including investment management across asset classes, pension analytics, asset-liability management, active risk budgeting and overlay strategies.
Institutional
The addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty wealth advisory services.
Private bank
provides customers worldwide with investment management services and retirement planning and administration through third-party and direct distribution channels.
Retail
offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business owners comprehensive wealth management solutions that include financial planning, personal trust, investment and banking products and services.
Private client services
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
From time to time, the Firm has made and will make forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as "anticipate," "target," "expect," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "goal," "believe," "anticipate" or other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements provide JPMorgan Chase's current expectations or forecasts of future events, circumstances, results or aspirations. JPMorgan Chase's disclosures in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm also may make forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). In addition, the Firm's senior management may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others.
All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. JPMorgan Chase's actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in its forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause this differencemany of which are beyond the Firm's controlinclude the following: local, regional and international business, political or economic conditions; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; technological changes instituted by the Firm and by other entities which may affect the Firm's business; mergers and acquisitions, including the Firm's ability to integrate acquisitions; ability of the Firm to develop new products and services; acceptance of new products and services and the ability of the Firm to increase market share; ability of the Firm to control expenses; competitive pressures; changes in laws and regulatory requirements; changes in applicable accounting policies; costs, outcomes and effects of litigation and regulatory investigations; changes in the credit quality of the Firm's customers; and adequacy of the Firm's risk management framework.
Additional factors that may cause future results to differ materially from forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors in the Firm's Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2005, to which reference is hereby made. There is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm speak only as of the date they are made and JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made. The reader should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q and its Current Reports on Form 8-K.


