FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20060411164512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 11, 2006, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase") sent a memorandum to the investment community discussing enhancements to its financial disclosure that became effective January 1, 2006, and will be reflected in its first quarter 2006 financial results. These changes are intended to reflect more closely the manner in which JPMorgan Chase's business segments are managed effective with the first quarter of 2006 and to provide improved comparability of the Firm's results with that of its competitors.
A copy of JPMorgan Chase's memorandum to the investor community is attached hereto and is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and a copy of the supplemental 2005 financial information reflecting those disclosure enhancements is attached hereto and is being furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 are being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Firm under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 11, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Highlighted below are key enhancements to JPMorgan Chase's (JPM) financial disclosure that became effective January 1, 2006 and will be reflected in the JPM's first quarter 2006 financial results. These changes are intended to reflect more closely the manner in which JPM's business segments are currently managed and to provide improved comparability with competitors.
In order to assist you in understanding the effects of these and other changes, attached is a Financial Supplement which provides a description of the disclosure changes and 2005 financial information on both a quarterly and full year basis which reflects the changes as if they had been in effect throughout 2005.
We hope you find the attached information helpful. Please let us know if you have any questions.
  Regards,
  Julia Bates Director of Investor Relations

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Executive Summary of Revisions to Financial Disclosure
Effective January 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) has enhanced certain of its financial disclosures to reflect more closely the manner in which JPM's business segments are being managed and to provide improved comparability with competitors. These financial disclosure revisions will be reflected in JPM's first quarter 2006 financial results and are described below. In order to assist the reader in understanding the effects of these disclosure changes, the accompanying financial information presents, on a supplemental basis, 2005 financial information on both a quarterly and full year basis as if the described financial disclosure changes had been in effect throughout 2005.
Reported versus Operating Basis Changes
Managed Basis Disclosures
GAAP DisclosurePrincipal Transactions
Business Segment Disclosures
1
Page 1
 
Page 2
 
Page 3
 
Page 4
 
Page 5
 
Page 6
 
The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"), which is referred to as "reported basis." That presentation provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements. In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's and the lines' of business results on a "managed" basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that do not have any impact on Net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole. The impact of those reclassifications are summarized below. For additional information about managed basis, please refer to the Glossary of Terms on page 33.
Page 7
 
Page 8
 
Page 9
 
Page 10
 
Page 11
 
Page 12
 
Page 13
 
Page 14
 
Page 15
 
Page 16
 
Page 17
 
Page 18
 
Page 19
 
Page 20
 
FOOTNOTES
TSS FIRMWIDE METRICS
Treasury & Securities Services firmwide metrics include certain TSS product revenues and liability balances reported in other lines of business related to customers who are also customers of those other lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenues, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenues and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary, in management's view, in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
Page 21
 
Page 22
 
Page 23
 
Page 24
 
Page 25
 
Page 26
 
Page 27
 
Page 28
 
Page 29
 
Page 30
 
Page 31
 
Page 32
 
Automated Clearing House
ACH:
Represent assets actively managed by Asset & Wealth Management on behalf of institutional, private banking, private client services and retail clients. Excludes assets managed by American Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 43% ownership interest.
Assets Under Management:
Represent assets under management as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Assets Under Supervision:
Refers to total assets on the Firm's balance sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Average Managed Assets:
In accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Policy, credit card loans are charged-off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bankruptcy, whichever is earlier.
Contractual Credit Card Charge-off:
Includes Private Equity, Treasury and Corporate Other and other centrally managed expenses.
Corporate:
Includes reclassifications related to credit card securitizations and taxable equivalents as described below. Management uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the business segment level because it believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors in understanding the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
Managed Basis:
: In the case of Card Services, managed basis excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. Through securitization, the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card receivables into securities, which are sold to investors. The credit card receivables are removed from the Consolidated balance sheets through the transfer of the receivables to a trust, and the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investors to specific cash flows generated from the credit card receivables. The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests as seller's interests, which are recorded in Loans on the Consolidated balance sheets. A gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in Other Income. Securitization also affects the Firm's Consolidated statements of income as interest income, certain fee revenue, recoveries in excess of interest paid to the investors, gross credit losses and other trust expenses related to the securitized receivables are all reclassified into credit card income.
Credit Card Securitizations
: Noninterest revenue and net interest income for each of the segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits are presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenues arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense.
Tax-Equivalent Basis
Refers to credit card receivables on the Firm's balance sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Managed Credit Card Receivables:
Data is not applicable for the period presented.
NA:
Not meaningful
NM:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.
Overhead Ratio:
Represents Trading revenue, primarily in the Investment Bank, plus private equity gains (losses), primarily in the Private Equity business in Corporate.
Principal Transactions:
Financial statements prepared under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations, but excludes the impact of taxable equivalent adjustments.
Reported Basis:
All periods are on a comparable basis, although restatements may occur in future periods to reflect further alignment of management accounting policies or changes in organizational structures between businesses.
Segment Results:
The financial statements and information included throughout this document are unaudited and have not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent certified public accountant to express an opinion.
Unaudited:
A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Value-at-Risk ("VAR"):
Page 33
 
Investment Banking
IB REVENUES ARE COMPRISED OF THE FOLLOWING:
includes advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.
1. Investment banking fees
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets, including government and corporate debt, foreign exchange, interest rate and commodities markets.
2. Fixed income markets
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives and convertibles.
3. Equities markets
includes Net interest income, fees and loan sale activity, as well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, for IB's credit portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the Firm's lending and derivative activities, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment ("CVA"), which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty.
4. Credit portfolio revenue
Retail Financial Services
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN REGIONAL BANKING:
Retail branch office personnel who acquire, retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assessing customer needs and recommending and selling appropriate banking products and services.
1. Personal bankers 
Retail branch office personnel who specialize in the marketing of a single product, including mortgages, investments and business banking, by partnering with the personal bankers.
2. Sales specialists 
MORTGAGE BANKING REVENUES ARE COMPRISED OF THE FOLLOWING:
includes Mortgage Servicing Rights created from the sales of loans, net gains or losses on the sales of loans, and other production-related fees. Also includes revenue associated with originations of subprime mortgage loans.
1. Production income
2. Mortgage servicing income
represents all gross income earned from servicing third party mortgage loans including stated service fee, excess service fees, late fees, and other ancillary fees. Also includes income associated with the servicing of subprime mortgages.
a) Servicing revenue
b) Changes in MSR asset fair value due to:
includes rates and other market based factors. Also includes updates to assumptions used in the MSR valuation process and changes in the value of servicing assets associated with subprime loans.
inputs or assumptions in the model
includes any factors other than those noted in the definition above. The single largest component of this line item is the change in MSR value due to servicing portfolio runoff (or time decay). For periods prior to January 1, 2006, this amount represents MSR asset amortization expense under SFAS 140, . Includes the results of both prime and subprime servicing assets.
  other changes in fair value
Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilitiesa replacement of FASB Statement No. 125
represents fair value adjustments to the derivatives and other instruments used to hedge the MSR asset.
derivative valuation adjustments and other
Retail Financial Services (continued)
MORTGAGE BANKING'S ORIGINATION CHANNELS ARE COMPRISED OF THE FOLLOWING:
Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home are directly contacted by a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.
1. Retail 
A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for loans.
2. Wholesale 
Mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis. These transactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportunities in the servicing portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.
3. Correspondent negotiated transactions ("CNT") 
Card Services
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN CARD SERVICES:
Represents the dollar amount of cardmember purchases, balance transfers and cash advance activity.
1. Charge volume 
Includes originations, portfolio purchases and sales.
2. Net accounts opened 
Represents an entity that processes payments for merchants. JPMorgan Chase is a partner in Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC.
3. Merchant acquiring business 
Represents the dollar amount of transactions processed for the merchants.
4. Bank card volume 
Represents the number of transactions and authorizations processed for the merchants.
5. Total transactions 
Commercial Banking
COMMERCIAL BANKING REVENUES ARE COMPRISED OF THE FOLLOWING:
includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are often provided on a basis secured by receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets. Products include Term loans, Revolving lines of credit, Bridge financing, Asset-backed structures, and Leases.
1. Lending
includes a broad range of products and services enabling clients to transfer, invest and manage the receipt and disbursement of funds, while providing the related information reporting. These products and services include U.S. dollar and multi-currency clearing, ACH, Lockbox, Disbursement and reconciliation services, Check deposits, Other check and currency-related services, Trade finance and logistics solutions, Commercial card, and Deposit products, sweeps and money market mutual funds.
2. Treasury services
products provide clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives, as well as balance sheet and risk management tools through Loan syndications, Investment-grade debt, Asset-backed securities, Private placements, High-yield bonds, Equity underwriting, Advisory, Interest rate derivatives, and Foreign exchange hedges.
3. Investment banking
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN COMMERCIAL BANKING:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial paper, fed funds purchases, and repurchase agreements).
1. Liability balances
Represents 100% of investment banking product revenue related to Commercial Bank customers that is shared between the Commercial and Investment Banks.
2. IB revenues, gross 
Page 34
 
Treasury & Securities Services
include certain TSS product revenues and liability balances reported in other lines of business related to customers who are also customers of those other lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenues, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenues and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary, in management's view, in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
Treasury & Securities Services firmwide metrics
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial paper, fed funds purchases, and repurchase agreements).
Liability balances
Asset & Wealth Management
AWM'S CLIENT SEGMENTS ARE COMPRISED OF THE FOLLOWING:
serves large and mid-size corporate and public institutions, endowments and foundations, and governments globally. AWM offers these institutions comprehensive global investment services, including investment management across asset classes, pension analytics, asset-liability management, active risk budgeting and overlay strategies.
1. Institutional
addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty wealth advisory services.
2. The Private bank
provides customers worldwide with investment management services and retirement planning and administration through third-party and direct distribution channels.
3. Retail
offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business owners comprehensive wealth management solutions that include financial planning, personal trust, investment and banking products and services.
4. Private client services
Page 35


