FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20061218171347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the
registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
      (d) Exhibits
     
The following Exhibits are incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (333-130051) of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the "Registrant") as exhibits thereto and are filed as part of this Current Report.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: December 18, 2006
 

     
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), in connection with the preparation and filing of a pricing supplement dated December 14, 2006 relating to Lesser Index Principal Protected Notes Linked to the Nikkei 225 Index and the Dow Jones EURO STOXX 50 Index due December 12, 2007 (the "Pricing Supplement") to product supplement no. 17-II dated October 31, 2006 relating to Lesser Index Principal Protected Notes Linked to the Nikkei 225 Index and the Dow Jones EURO STOXX 50 Index (the "Product Supplement") to a prospectus supplement dated October 12, 2006 (the "Prospectus Supplement") for the Company's Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated December 1, 2005 (the "Prospectus") contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration Statement No. 333-130051) (the "Registration Statement"). This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act").
     
In our opinion, the discussions under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Product Supplement and under the heading "Selected Purchase Considerations  Taxed as Short-Term Debt Instruments" in the Pricing Supplement, subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, set forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities offered pursuant to the Pricing Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
     
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Product Supplement and under the heading "Selected Purchase Considerations  Taxed as Short-Term Debt Instruments" in the Pricing Supplement. By such consent we do not concede that we are an "expert" for the purposes of the Act.

     
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), in connection with the preparation and filing of a pricing supplement dated December 14, 2006 relating to Lesser Index Principal Protected Notes Linked to Dow Jones EURO STOXX 50 Index and the S&P 500 Index due December 12, 2007 (the "Pricing Supplement") to product supplement no. 59-I dated December 14, 2006 relating to Lesser Index Principal Protected Notes Linked to the Dow Jones EURO STOXX 50 Index and the S&P 500 Index (the "Product Supplement") to a prospectus supplement dated October 12, 2006 (the "Prospectus Supplement") for the Company's Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated December 1, 2005 (the "Prospectus") contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration Statement No. 333-130051) (the "Registration Statement"). This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act").
     
In our opinion, the discussions under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Product Supplement and under the heading "Selected Purchase Considerations  Taxed as Short-Term Debt Instruments" in the Pricing Supplement, subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, set forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities offered pursuant to the Pricing Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
     
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Product Supplement and under the heading "Selected Purchase Considerations  Taxed as Short-Term Debt Instruments" in the Pricing Supplement. By such consent we do not concede that we are an "expert" for the purposes of the Act.

     
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), in connection with the preparation and filing of a pricing supplement dated December 14, 2006 relating to Lesser Index Principal Protected Notes Linked to the Nikkei 225 Index and the S&P 500 Index due December 12, 2007 (the "Pricing Supplement") to product supplement no. 16-II dated October 27, 2006 relating to Lesser Index Principal Protected Notes Linked to Nikkei 225 Index and the S&P 500 Index (the "Product Supplement") to a prospectus supplement dated October 12, 2006 (the "Prospectus Supplement") for the Company's Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated December 1, 2005 (the "Prospectus") contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration Statement No. 333-130051) (the "Registration Statement"). This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act").
     
In our opinion, the discussions under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Product Supplement and under the heading "Selected Purchase Considerations  Taxed as Short-Term Debt Instruments" in the Pricing Supplement, subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, set forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities offered pursuant to the Pricing Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
     
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading "United States Federal Taxation" in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the Product Supplement and under the heading "Selected Purchase Considerations  Taxed as Short-Term Debt Instruments" in the Pricing Supplement. By such consent we do not concede that we are an "expert" for the purposes of the Act.


