FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20071219170204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following Exhibits are incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (333-130051) of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the Registrant) as exhibits thereto and are filed as part of this Current Report.
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: December 19, 2007
 
3
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 8.1
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
270 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the Company), in connection with the preparation and filing of pricing supplement no. 881 dated December 17, 2007 relatinBuffered Return Enhanced Notes Linked to the S&P 500 Index due December 31, 2008S&P 500 Index (the Product Supplement) to a prospectus supplement dated December 1, 2005 (the Prospectus Supplement) for the Companys Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated December 1, 2005 (the Prospectus) contained in the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration Statement No. 333-130051) (the Registration Statement).  This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Act).
g to
(the Pricing Supplement) to product supplement no. 18-I dated March 16, 2006 relating to
Return Enhanced Notes Linked to the
In our opinion, the discussions under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement and under the heading Selected Purchase Considerations  , subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, set forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities offered pursuant to the Pricing Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
Capital Gains Tax Treatment in the Pricing Supplement
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement and under the heading Selected Purchase Considerations  .  By such consent we do not concede that we are an expert for the purposes of the Act.
Capital Gains Tax Treatment in the Pricing Supplement
 
 

 
Exhibit 8.2
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
270 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the Company), in connection with the preparation and filing of pricing supplement no. 882 dated December 18, 2007 relating to 4.25% (equivalent to 17.00% per annum) Reverse Exchangeable Notes due April 3, 2008 Linked to the Common Stock of Marathon Oil Corporation (the Pricing Supplement) to product supplement no. 34-V dated February 7, 2007 relating to Reverse Exchangeable Notes Linked to the Common Stock of a Reference Stock Issuer (the Product Supplement) to a prospectus supplement dated October 12, 2006 (the Prospectus Supplement) for the Companys Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated December 1, 2005 (the Prospectus) contained in the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration Statement No. 333-130051) (the Registration Statement).  This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Act).
In our opinion, the discussions under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement and under the heading Selected Purchase Considerations  Tax Treatment as a Unit Comprising a Put Option and a Deposit in the Pricing Supplement, subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, set forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities offered pursuant to the Pricing Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement and under the heading Selected Purchase Considerations  Tax Treatment as a Unit Comprising a Put Option and a Deposit in the Pricing Supplement.  By such consent we do not concede that we are an expert for the purposes of the Act.
 
 


