FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20081119170723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01Other Events
On May 30, 2008, BSC Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co. merged with The Bear Stearns Companies, Inc. ("Bear Stearns") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 16, 2008, as amended March 24, 2008, and Bear Stearns became a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase ("the merger"). As a result of the merger, each outstanding share of Bear Stearns common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.21753 shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock. The merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Unaudited pro forma combined financial information for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, and the year ended December 31, 2007, presenting the results of operations of the Firm as they may have appeared if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2007, is set forth in this Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
The following unaudited pro forma combined statements of income and explanatory notes present how the combined results of operations of JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns may have appeared if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2007. The results of operations presented for JPMorgan Chase are for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 (which includes four months of the combined Firm's results and five months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results), and for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Bear Stearns results of operations for the five months ended May 30, 2008, and for the year ended December 31, 2007, are presented on an adjusted basis, which include pro forma adjustments, reflecting valuation and accounting conformity adjustments (as described in Note 2 of this Form 8-K). The unaudited pro forma combined statements of income show the impact of the merger on JPMorgan Chase's and Bear Stearns' combined results of operations under the purchase method of accounting with JPMorgan Chase treated as the acquirer. Under this method of accounting, JPMorgan Chase recorded the assets and liabilities of Bear Stearns at their estimated fair values.
The merger was accomplished through a series of transactions that were reflected as step acquisitions in accordance with SFAS 141. On April 8, 2008, pursuant to the share exchange agreement, JPMorgan Chase acquired 95 million newly issued shares of Bear Stearns common stock (or 39.5% of Bear Stearns common stock after giving effect to the issuance) for 21 million shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock. Further, between March 24, 2008, and May 12, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired approximately 24 million shares of Bear Stearns common stock in the open market at an average purchase price of $12.37 per share. The share exchange and cash purchase transactions resulted in JPMorgan Chase owning approximately 49.4% of Bear Stearns common stock immediately prior to consummation of the merger. Finally, on May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase completed the merger, and as a result of the merger, each outstanding share of Bear Stearns common stock (other than shares then held by JPMorgan Chase) was converted into the right to receive 0.21753 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase. Also, on May 30, 2008, the shares of common stock that JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns acquired from each other in the share exchange transaction were cancelled. From April 8, 2008, through May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase accounted for the investment in Bear Stearns under the equity method of accounting in accordance with APB 18. During this period, JPMorgan Chase recorded reductions to its investment in Bear Stearns representing its share of Bear Stearns' net losses, which was recorded in other income. Commencing May 31, 2008, Bear Stearns was reflected in JPMorgan Chase's consolidated results of operations. As a result of step acquisition accounting, the purchase price was allocated to the Bear Stearns assets acquired and liabilities assumed using their fair values as of April 8, 2008, and May 30, 2008, respectively.
The unaudited pro forma combined statements of income were derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and the related notes of both JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns that are included in JPMorgan Chase's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 16, 2008, JPMorgan Chase's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, and JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual Bank ("Washington Mutual"), from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. For purposes of these unaudited pro forma combined statements of income, the pro forma results of operations of Washington Mutual are not included in the amounts reported for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, and the year ended December 31, 2007. For additional information on the Washington Mutual transaction, see JPMorgan Chase's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
The unaudited pro forma combined statements of income are presented for illustrative purposes only and do not indicate the financial results of the combined company had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of the periods presented, nor are they indicative of the results of operations in future periods. Bear Stearns is a broker-dealer, and many of the assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet are financial assets carried at fair value, or are short-term in nature. For those assets and liabilities that are short-term in nature, their carrying value approximates fair value. For purposes of these unaudited pro forma combined statements of income no valuation adjustments were applied to Bear Stearns' assets and liabilities that were carried at fair value or those which were short-term in nature for Bear Stearns' year ended December 31, 2007, except for adjustments to reflect JPMorgan Chase's credit spreads on trading liabilities and long-term debt. The adjustments included in these unaudited pro forma combined statements of income may be revised in the future. Under U.S. GAAP, the allocation of the purchase price may be modified up to one year after the closing date, as more information is obtained about the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. These unaudited pro forma combined statements of income represents management's current estimate of the combined results of operations based on available financial information of JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns as of September 30, 2008. The final purchase accounting adjustments may be materially different from the unaudited pro forma adjustments presented in this document.
 
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
The unaudited pro forma combined statements of income relating to the merger of JPMorgan Chase with Bear Stearns is presented for JPMorgan Chase for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 (which includes four months of the combined Firm's results and five months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results), and for the year ended December 31, 2007, and for Bear Stearns for the five months ended May 30, 2008, and for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Included in the unaudited pro forma combined statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, and the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively, were pro forma adjustments to reflect the results of operations of Bear Stearns, and valuation and accounting conformity adjustments.
There were no material intercompany transactions, between JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns, that affected the unaudited pro forma combined statements of income. The pro forma financial information does not reflect the elimination of hedge accounting results related to transactions between JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns. Management believes this presentation is more reflective of the pro forma results of the combined entity, as derivatives that qualified for hedge accounting in the periods presented continued to qualify as hedges through the date the merger was completed, and management subsequently replaced derivatives that were used for hedging purposes that became intercompany with new third-party derivative contracts.
The merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. As a result of step acquisition accounting, the purchase price was allocated to the Bear Stearns assets acquired and liabilities assumed using their fair values as of April 8, 2008, and May 30, 2008, respectively.
The unaudited pro forma combined statements of income are presented for illustrative purposes only and do not indicate the financial results of the combined company had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of the periods presented, nor are they indicative of the results of operations in future periods. Bear Stearns is a broker-dealer, and many of the assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet are financial assets carried at fair value, or are short-term in nature. For those assets and liabilities that are short-term in nature, their carrying value approximates fair value. For purposes of these unaudited pro forma combined statements of income no valuation adjustments were applied to Bear Stearns' assets and liabilities that were carried at fair value or those which were short-term in nature for Bear Stearns' year ended December 31, 2007, except for adjustments to reflect JPMorgan Chase's credit spreads on trading liabilities and long-term debt. The adjustments included in these unaudited pro forma combined statements of income may be revised in the future. Under U.S. GAAP, the allocation of the purchase price may be modified up to one year after the closing date, as more information is obtained about the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. These unaudited pro forma combined statements of income represents management's current estimate of the combined results of operations based on available financial information of JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns as of September 30, 2008. The final purchase accounting adjustments may be materially different from the unaudited pro forma adjustments presented in this document.
Note 2  Unaudited Pro Forma Adjustments
The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma combined statements of income for JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, and the year ended December 31, 2007, are as follows:
 


