FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20080716170418.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a -12)
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d -2(b))
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e -4(c))
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On July 15, 2008, the Board of Directors of JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase") approved amendments to the By-laws of JPMorgan Chase (the "Amendments"), effective on July 15, 2008. Section 1.03 of the By-laws was amended to provide notices of annual and special meetings of stockholders to be transmitted to stockholders by any form of electronic transmission (with the consent of the stockholder to the extent required by applicable law). Sections 1.06 and 2.09 of the By-laws were amended to provide that broker nonvotes shall not be counted as shares entitled to vote on a matter before the stockholders. Section 1.07 of the By-laws was amended to provide that the list of stockholders entitled to vote at a meeting of the stockholders may be made available to the stockholders on a reasonably accessible elec tronic network. Section 1.09 of the By-laws was amended to expand the required disclosure regarding stockholders making proposals for nominations for consideration at an annual meeting to include, among other things, any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares of JPMorgan Chase. Section 1.09 of the By-laws was also amended to provide that if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted. A new Section 1.10 was added to specify the authority of the chairman of meetings of the stockholders with respect to the conduct of such meetings. Section 2.01 of the By-laws was amended to provide that no vote to decrease the number of directors shall shorten the term of any incumb ent director. A new Section 2.10 was added to the By-laws to provide that any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission. Article VI was amended to add references to uncertificated shares. A new Section 9.06 was added to the By-laws to provide that no amendment of the indemnification provisions of the By-laws can reduce an indemnified person's right to indemnification or advancement of expenses in connection with events that have already taken place. The foregoing description of the Amendments does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the By-laws, as amended, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.4 and incorporated by reference herein.
     
     The information disclosed in Item 8.01 under "Preferred Stock Conversion" is incorporated by reference in this Item 5.03.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Preferred Stock Conversion
     
On July 10, 2008, JPMorgan Chase filed a (i) Certificate of Designations 6.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E of JPMorgan Chase, (ii) Certificate of Designations 5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F of JPMorgan Chase, and (iii) Certificate of Designations 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G of JPMorgan Chase (collectively, the "JPMorgan Chase Preferred Stock") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. The description of JPMorgan Chase Preferred Stock set forth under the heading "Description of the JPMorgan Chase Mirror Preferred Stock and the Depositary Shares" in the prospectus included in the registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333- 152214) filed by JPMorgan Chase with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") is incorporated by reference her ein. A copy of the Certificate of Designations 6.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E of JPMorgan Chase, Certificate of Designations 5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F of JPMorgan Chase and Certificate of Designations 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G of JPMorgan Chase are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
     
On June 4, 2008, The Bear Stearns Companies Inc., a direct subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase ("Bear Stearns") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with JPMorgan Chase and BSC Merger Corporation II, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase ("Merger Subsidiary"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, on July 15, 2008, Merger Subsidiary merged with and into Bear Stearns, with Bear Stearns continuing as the surviving corporation and a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the merger, each share of the Bear Stearns 6.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, 5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F and 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (collectively, the "Bear Stearns Preferred Stock") was automatically converted into a newly issued share of JPMorgan Chase Preferred Stock having substantially identical terms to the corresponding series of Bear Stearns Preferred Stock.
     
Prior to the Merger, each outstanding share of Bear Stearns Preferred Stock was represented by depositary shares listed on the NYSE Euronext, Inc. ("NYSE"), representing a one-fourth interest in a share of Bear Stearns Preferred Stock. Pursuant to the terms of an Assignment, Assumption and Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2008, by and among JPMorgan Chase, Bear Stearns and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as Depositary (the "Depositary"), JPMorgan Chase assumed the obligations of Bear Stearns under the respective deposit agreements for each series of Bear Stearns Preferred Stock. A copy of the Assignment Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
     
JPMorgan Chase has instructed the Depositary under each of the deposit agreements to treat the shares of JPMorgan Chase Preferred Stock received by it in exchange for shares of Bear Stearns Preferred Stock as newly deposited securities under the applicable deposit agreement. In accordance with the terms of the relevant deposit agreement, the depositary shares now represent a one-fourth interest in a share of the relevant series of JPMorgan Chase Preferred Stock. Such depositary shares will continue to be listed on the NYSE with the following changed names, tickers and CUSIP numbers:
     
The JPMorgan Chase Preferred Stock was registered under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-4. The JPMorgan Chase Preferred Stock is deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) thereunder.
LLC Conversion
     
Effective July 16, 2008, pursuant to the laws of the State of Delaware, Bear Stearns converted its form of organization from that of a Delaware corporation to that of a Delaware limited liability company under the name of The Bear Stearns Companies LLC. The purpose of converting from a corporation to a limited liability company is to enable Bear Stearns to operate its business in a more tax efficient manner. For all purposes of the laws of the State of Delaware, The Bear Stearns Companies LLC is deemed to be the same entity as The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. and the conversion constitutes a continuation of the existence of The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. in the form of a limited liability company.
     
Pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act, the following series of outstanding debt securities issued by The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. and listed on the NYSE and American Stock Exchange were deemed, upon the company's conversion to The Bear Stearns Companies LLC, to be issued by The Bear Stearns Companies LLC and registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: (i) BearLink Alerian MLP Select Index ETN; (ii) Principal Protected Notes Linked to the S&P 500 Index Due October 2008; (iii) Principal Protected Notes Linked to the Nasdaq-100 Index Due December 2009; (iv) Principal Protected Notes Linked to the S&P 500 Index Due November 2009; (v) Principal Protected Notes Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average Due March 2011; and (vi) Medium-Term Notes, Linked to a Basket of Three International Equity Indices Due August 2010. Holders of these debt securities and holders of Bear Stearns's other outstanding debt securities need not take any action in connection with the conversion. Further, none of Bear Stearns's outstanding debt securities will be exchanged for new debt securities as a result of the conversion.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 16, 2008

Exhibit 3.1
     
JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that on July 1, 2008, the Stock Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board of Directors, by the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), of the Corporation and by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware has adopted the following resolutions creating a series of preferred stock, $1.00 par value, of the Corporation, designated as 6.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E (the "Preferred Stock"):
     
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations of 6.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E to be duly executed by its Corporate Secretary and attested to by its Assistant Corporate Secretary and has caused its corporate seal to be affixed hereto, this 1
st
day of July, 2008.

Exhibit 3.2
     
JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that on July 1, 2008, the Stock Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board of Directors, by the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), of the Corporation and by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware has adopted the following resolutions creating a series of preferred stock, $1.00 par value, of the Corporation, designated as 5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (the "Preferred Stock"):
     
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations of 5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F to be duly executed by its Corporate Secretary and attested to by its Assistant Corporate Secretary and has caused its corporate seal to be affixed hereto, this 1
st
day of July, 2008.

Exhibit 3.3
     
JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that on July 1, 2008, the Stock Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board of Directors, by the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), of the Corporation and by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware has adopted the following resolutions creating a series of preferred stock, $1.00 par value, of the Corporation, designated as 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (the "Preferred Stock"):
     
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations of 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G to be duly executed by its Corporate Secretary and attested to by its Assistant Corporate Secretary and has caused its corporate seal to be affixed hereto, this 1
st
day of July, 2008.

Exhibit 3.4
 
    
     
Section 1.01.
Annual Meeting.
The annual meeting of the stockholders of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the "Corporation") shall be held on the third Tuesday in May in each year (or, if that day shall be a legal holiday then on the next preceding business day) or at such other date and at such time and place, if any, within or without the State of Delaware, as may be specified in the notice thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board"), for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before such meeting. If any annual meeting shall not be held on the day designated or the directors shall not have been elected thereat or at any adjournment thereof, thereaft er the Board shall cause a special meeting of the stockholders to be held as soon as practicable for the election of directors. At such special meeting the stockholders may elect directors and transact other business with the same force and effect as at an annual meeting of the stockholders duly called and held.
     Section 1.02.
Special Meetings.
     
Section 1.03.
Notice of Meetings.
Except as may otherwise expressly be required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, notice of the place, if any (or the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person), date and hour of holding each annual and special meeting of the stockholders and the purpose or purposes thereof shall be delivered personally or mailed in a postage prepaid envelope or, to the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable law, by any form of electronic transmission (with the consent of the stockholder to the extent required by applicable law), not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of such meeting, to each person who appea rs on the stock books and records of the Corporation as a stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. Notices are deemed given (i) if by mail, when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, or, if a stockholder shall have filed with the Secretary a written request that notices to such stockholder be mailed to some other address, then directed to such stockholder at such other address; (ii) if by facsimile, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive
notice; (iii) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive such notice; (iv) if by posting on an electronic network together with a separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later to occur of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice of such posting; and (v) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder as required by law and, to the extent required by applicable law, in the manner consented to by the stockholder. An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any stockholders' meeting, executed by the Secretary, Assistant Corporate Secretary or any transfer agent of the Corporation giving the notice, shall be prima facie evidence of the giving of such notice or report. Notice shall be deemed to have been given to all stockholders of record who share an address if n otice is given in accordance with the "householding" rules set forth in Rule 14a-3(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and Section 233 of the General Corporation Law. Notice of any meeting of stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall attend such meeting in person or by proxy and shall not, at the beginning of such meeting, object to the transaction of any business because the meeting has not been lawfully called or convened, or who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a signed waiver of notice or waive notice by electronic transmission, in person or by proxy. Unless the Board shall fix a new record date for an adjourned meeting, notice of such adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place, if any (and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person at such adjourned meeting), to which the meeting shall be adjourned were announced at the me eting at which the adjournment was taken, provided that the adjournment is not for more than 30 days.
     
Section 1.04.
Quorum.
At each meeting of the stockholders, stockholders holding of record shares of common stock constituting a majority of the voting power of stock of the Corporation having general voting power (shares having such general voting power being hereinafter sometimes referred to as a "voting interest of the stockholders") shall be present in person or by proxy to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum at any such meeting or any adjournment or adjournments thereof, a majority in voting interest of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereat, or in the absence therefrom of all the stockholders, any officer entitled to preside at, or to act as secretary of, su ch meeting may adjourn such meeting from time to time. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum may be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. The absence from any meeting of stockholders holding the number of shares of stock of the Corporation required by the General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws for action upon any given matter shall not prevent action at such meeting upon any other matter or matters which may properly come before the meeting, if there shall be present thereat in person or by proxy stockholders holding the number of shares of stock of the Corporation required in respect of such other matter or matters.
     
Section 1.05.
Organization.
At each meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman, or, if he shall be absent therefrom, the Chief Executive Officer, the President,
or a Vice Chairman of the Board, or, if they also shall be absent therefrom, another officer of the Corporation chosen as chairman of such meeting by a majority in voting interest of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereat, or, if all the officers of the Corporation shall be absent therefrom, a stockholder holding of record shares of stock of the Corporation so chosen, shall act as chairman of the meeting and preside thereat; and the Secretary, or, if he shall be absent from such meeting or shall be required pursuant to the provisions of this Section to act as chairman of such meeting, the person (who shall be an Assistant Corporate Secretary, if an Assistant Corporate Secretary shall be present thereat) whom the chairman of such meeting shall appoint shall act as secretary of such meeting and keep the minutes thereof.
     
Section 1.06.
Voting.
Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder shall, at each meeting of the stockholders, be entitled to one vote in person or by proxy for each share of stock of the Corporation held by him and registered in his name on the stock books and records of the Corporation:
Persons holding in a fiduciary capacity stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to vote such stock so held, and persons whose stock is pledged shall be entitled to vote such stock, unless in the transfer by the pledgor on the books of the Corporation he shall have expressly empowered the pledgee to vote thereon, in which case only the pledgee, or his proxy, may represent such stock and vote thereon. If shares of stock of the Corporation shall stand of record in the names of two or more persons, whether fiduciaries, members of a partnership, joint tenants, tenants in common, tenants by the entirety or otherwise, or if two or more persons shall have the same fiduciary relationship respecting the same shares of stock of the Corporation, unless the Secretary shall have been given written notice to the contrary and have been furnished with a copy of the instrument or order appointing them or creating the relationship wherein it is so prov ided, their acts with respect to voting shall have the following effect:
If the instrument so filed shall show that any such tenancy is held in unequal interests, the majority or even-split for the purpose of the next foregoing sentence shall be a majority or
even-split in interest. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders (or, with respect to shares of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation, to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting) may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other elect ronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of such writing or transmission may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that any such reproduction is a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission. A proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by delivering to the Secretary a revocation of the proxy or a new proxy bearing a later date. At all meetings of the stockholders at which a quorum is present, all matters, unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-laws, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable t o the Corporation, or applicable law or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the Corporation or its securities, shall be decided by the vote of a majority in voting interest of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote on such matter. For purposes of this By-Law, votes cast "for" or "against" and "abstentions" with respect to a given matter shall be counted as shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, while "broker nonvotes" (or other shares of stock of the Corporation similarly not entitled to vote) shall not be counted as shares entitled to vote on such matter. Except in the case of votes for the election of directors, unless demanded by a stockholder of the Corporation present in person or by proxy at any meeting of the stockholders and entitled to vote thereat or so directed by the chairman of the meeting, the vote thereat need not be by ballot. Upon a demand of any such stockholder for a vote by ballot on any question or at the direction of such ch airman that a vote by ballot be taken on any question, such vote shall be taken. On a vote by ballot each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by his proxy, if there be such proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.
     
Section 1.07.
List of Stockholders.
It shall be the duty of the Secretary or other officer of the Corporation who shall have charge of its stock books and records, either directly or through another officer of the Corporation designated by him or through a transfer agent appointed by the Board, to prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open
to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least 10 days prior to said meeting, either (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of said meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who shall be present thereat. Upon the willful neglect or refusal of the directors to produce such list at any meeting for the election of directors, they shall be ineligible for election to any office at such meeting. Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock books and records shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock books and records of the Corp oration, or such list, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
     
Section 1.08.
Inspectors of Election.
Prior to any meeting of the stockholders, the chairman of such meeting shall appoint one or more Inspectors of Election to act thereat and make a written report thereof. Each Inspector of Election so appointed shall first subscribe an oath or affirmation faithfully to execute the duties of an Inspector of Election at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability. Such Inspectors of Election shall have the powers and duties set forth in Section 231 of the General Corporation Law as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended or replaced. Such Inspectors of Election, if any, shall take charge of the ballots at such meeting and after the balloting thereat on any questio n shall count the ballots cast thereon and shall make a report in writing to the secretary of such meeting of the results thereof. An Inspector of Election need not be a stockholder of the Corporation.
     Section 1.09.
Notice of Stockholder Business and Director Nominations.
shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such st ockholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (ii) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material i nterest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (iii) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (A) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (B) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (C) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination or proposal between or among such stockholder and such beneficial owner, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing, (D) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and such beneficial owners, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price
     
Section 1.10.
Conduct of Meetings
. The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of t he meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding
person of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
     
Section 2.01.
Number.
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than 8 and no more than 18 members, selected, organized and continued in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the State of Delaware. The exact number of directors within said range shall be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board, except as the number of Directors for any year may be fixed by resolution of the stockholders at any annual meeting by a majority vote of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon; provided, however, that no vote to decrease the number of directors of the Corporation shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. Each dir ector hereafter elected shall hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor is duly elected and qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal.
     
Section 2.02.
Vacancies.
Except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, vacancies on the Board due to death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum. Each director so chosen shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until a successor is duly elected and qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal.
     
Section 2.03.
Annual Meeting.
An annual meeting of the directors shall be held each year, without notice, immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders. The time and place of such meeting shall be designated by the Board. At such meeting, the directors shall, after qualifying, elect from their own number a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President and one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, and shall elect or appoint such other officers authorized by these By-laws as they may deem desirable, and designate the Committees specified in Article III hereof. The directors may also elect to serve at the pleasure of the Board, one or more
Honorary Directors, not members of the Board. Honorary Directors of the Board shall be paid such compensation or such fees for attendance at meetings of the Board, and meetings of other committees of the Board, as the Board shall determine from time to time.
     
Section 2.04.
Regular Meetings.
The Board shall hold a regular meeting without notice at the principal office of the Corporation on the third Tuesday in each month, with such exceptions as shall be determined by the Board, at such time as shall be determined by the Board, unless another time or place, within or without the State of Delaware, shall be fixed by resolution of the Board. Should the day appointed for a regular meeting fall on a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held at the same time on the preceding day or on such other day as the Board may order.
     
Section 2.05.
Special Meetings.
Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Secretary or a majority of the directors then in office. A notice shall be given as hereinafter in this Section provided of each such special meeting, in which shall be stated the time and place (which may be within or without the State of Delaware) of such meeting, but, except as otherwise expressly provided by law or by these By-laws, the purposes thereof need not be stated in such notice. Except as otherwise provided by law, notice of each such meeting shall be mailed to each director, addressed to him at his residence or usual place of business, at least 48 hours p rior to the day on which such meeting is to be held; provided that in lieu thereof, notice may be delivered to each director personally or by telephone or sent by facsimile, electronic mail or other electronic transmission addressed to each director to the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable law not later than noon of the calendar day before the day on which such meeting is to be held. At any regular or special meeting of the Board, or any committee thereof, one or more Board or committee members may participate in and act at such meeting by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other, and participation in the meeting pursuant to this By-law shall constitute presence in person at the meeting. Notice of any meeting of the Board shall not, however, be required to be given to any director who submits a signed waiver of notice, or waives notice of such meeting by electronic transmission, whether before or afte r the meeting, or if he shall be present at such meeting; and any meeting of the Board shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given if all the directors of the Corporation then in office shall be present thereat.
     
Section 2.06.
Quorum.
One-third of the members of the entire Board, or the next highest integer in the event of a fraction, shall constitute a quorum, but if less than a quorum be present, a majority of those present may adjourn any meeting from time to time and the meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice. The vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law.
     
Section 2.07.
Rules and Regulations.
The Board may adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of its meetings and the management of the affairs of the Corporation as it may deem proper, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware or these By-laws.
     
Section 2.08.
Compensation.
Directors shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation such amount per annum and in addition, or in lieu thereof, such fees for attendance at meetings of the Board or of any committee, or both, as the Board from time to time shall determine. The Board may also likewise provide that the Corporation shall reimburse each such director or member of such committee for any expenses paid by him on account of his attendance at any such meeting. Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
     
Section 2.09.
Majority Voting for Directors
.
The vote required for election of a director by the stockholders shall, except in a contested election, be the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or withheld from the election of a nominee at a meeting of stockholders. For purposes of this Section 2.09, a "majority of the votes cast" shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election, with "abstentions" and "broker nonvotes" (or other shares of stock of the Corporation similarly not entitled to vote on such election) not counted as votes cast either "for" or "against" tha t director's election. In a contested election, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders by the holders of shares present in person or by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote in the election. An election shall be considered contested if there are more nominees for election than positions on the board of directors to be filled by election at the meeting.
     
In any non-contested election of directors, any incumbent director nominee who receives a greater number of votes withheld from his or her election than in favor of his or her election shall immediately tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors shall decide, through a process managed by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, whether to accept the resignation at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting. The Board's explanation of its decision shall be promptly disclosed through a public statement.
     
Section 2.10.
Action Without Meeting.
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such consent or consents are filed with the minutes of the Board or of such committee.
     
Section 3.01.
Executive Committee
. The Board shall designate an Executive Committee which, when the Board is not in session, shall have and may exercise all the powers of the Board that lawfully may be delegated, including without limitation the power and authority to declare dividends. The Executive Committee shall consist of such number of directors as the Board shall from time to time determine, but not less than five and one of whom shall be designated by the Board as Chairman thereof, including: (a) the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Vice Chairmen of the Board; and (b) such other directors, none of whom shall be an officer of the Corporation, as shall be appointed to serve at the pleasure of the Board. The B oard, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, may (a) designate one or more directors as alternate members of the Executive Committee or (b) specify that the member or members of the Executive Committee present and not disqualified from voting at a meeting of the Executive Committee, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at such meeting in place of any absent or disqualified member. The attendance of one-third of the members of the Committee or their substitutes, or the next highest integer in the event of a fraction, at any meeting shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting thereof at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Committee. All acts done and powers conferred by the Committee from time to time shall be deemed to be, and may be certified as being done or conferred under authority of the Board. The Committee shall fix its own rules and procedures, and the minutes of the meetings of the Committee shall be submitted at the next regular meeting of the Board at which a quorum is present, or if impracticable, at the next such subsequent meeting. The Committee shall hold meetings "On Call" and such meetings may be called by the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or the Secretary. Notice of each such meeting of the Committee shall be given by mail or courier or delivered personally or by telephone or sent by facsimile, electronic mail or other electronic transmission, to the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable law, to each member of the Committee not later than the day before the day on which such meeting is to be held. Notice of any such meeting need not be given to any member of the Committee who submits a signed waiver of notice or waives notice by electronic transmission, whether before or after the meeting, or if he shall be present at such meeting; and any meeting of the Committee shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all the members of the Committee shall be present thereat. In the case of any meeting, in the absence of the Chairman of the Executive Committee, such member as shall be designated by the Chairman of the Executive Committee or the Executive Committee shall act as Chairman of the meeting.
     
Section 3.02.
Audit Committee.
The Board shall designate an Audit Committee composed of not less than three of its members, none of whom shall be an officer of the Corporation, to hold office at its pleasure and one of whom shall be
designated by the Board as Chairman thereof. The Committee shall make such examination into the affairs of the Corporation and make such reports in writing thereof as may be directed by the Board. The attendance of one-third of the members of the Committee, or the next highest integer in the event of a fraction, at any meeting shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting thereof at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Committee.
     
Section 3.03.
Other Committees.
The Corporation elects to be governed by subsection (2) of section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law. The Board may designate, from time to time, such other committees composed of not less than one of its members for such purposes and with such duties and powers as the Board may determine. The attendance of one-third of the members of such other committees, or the next highest integer in the event of a fraction, at any meeting shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting thereof at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such other committees. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members present at any meeting and not disqualified fro m voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any committee may act by delegating its authority to one or more subcommittees. With respect to the rules and procedures of such other committees of the Board (including, but not limited to, the Audit Committee), the provisions in Section 3.01 shall apply to each such committee unless such committee shall elect otherwise.
     
Section 4.01.
Officers.
The officers of the Corporation shall be (a) a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, and, in the discretion of the Board, a President and one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, each of whom must be a director and shall be elected by the Board; (b) a Chief Financial Officer, a Controller, a Secretary, and a General Auditor, each of whom shall be elected by the Board; and (c) such other officers as may from time to time be elected by the Board or under its authority, or appointed by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
     
Section 4.02.
Clerks and Agents.
The Board may elect and dismiss, or the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice Chairman of the Board may appoint and dismiss and delegate to any other officers authority to appoint and dismiss, such clerks, agents and employees as may be deemed advisable for the prompt and orderly transaction of the Corporation's business, and may prescribe, or authorize the appointing officers to prescribe, their respective duties, subject to the provisions of these By-laws.
     
Section 4.03.
Term of Office.
The officers designated in Section 4.01(a) shall be elected by the Board at its annual meeting, and any one person may be elected to hold more than one such office. The officers designated in Section 4.01(b) may be elected at the annual or any other meeting of the Board. The officers designated in Section 4.01(c) may be elected at the annual or any other meeting of the Board or appointed at any time by the designated proper officers. Any vacancy occurring in any office designated in Section 4.01(a) may be filled at any regular or special meeting of the Board. The officers elected pursuant to Section 4.01(a) shall each hold office for the term of one year and until their successors are elected, unless sooner disqualified or removed by a vote of two-thirds of the whole Board. All other officers, clerks, agents and employees elected by the Board, or appointed by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or a Vice Chairman of the Board, or under their authority, shall hold their respective offices at the pleasure of the Board or officers elected pursuant to Section 4.01(a).
     
Section 4.04.
Chairman of the Board.
The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and at all meetings of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall have the same power to perform any act on behalf of the Corporation and to sign for the Corporation as is prescribed in these By-laws for the Chief Executive Officer. He shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board.
     
Section 4.05.
Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall have, subject to the control of the Board, general supervision and direction of the business and affairs of the Corporation and of its several officers. In the absence of the Chairman, he shall preside at all
meetings of the stockholders and at all meetings of the Board. He shall have the power to execute any document or perform any act on behalf of the Corporation, including without limitation the power to sign checks, orders, contracts, leases, notes, drafts and other documents and instruments in connection with the business of the Corporation, and together with the Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary execute conveyances of real estate and other documents and instruments to which the seal of the Corporation may be affixed. He shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board.
     
Section 4.06.
President.
The President shall, subject to the direction and control of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, participate in the supervision of the business and affairs of the Corporation. In general, the President shall perform all duties incident to the office of President, and such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer. In the absence of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall preside at meetings of stockholders and of the Board. The President shall have the same power to perform any act on behalf of the Corporation and to sign for the Corporation as is prescribed in these By-laws for the Chief Executive Officer.
     
Section 4.07.
Vice Chairman of the Board.
The Vice Chairman of the Board, or if there be more than one, then each of them, shall, subject to the direction and control of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, participate in the supervision of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and shall have such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer. In the absence of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the President, a Vice Chairman, as designated by the Chairman or the Board, shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board. Each Vice Chairman shall have the same power to perform any act on behalf of the Corporation and to sign for the Corporation as is prescribed in thes e By-laws for the Chief Executive Officer.
     
Section 4.08.
Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice Chairman of the Board may from time to time prescribe which may include, without limitation, responsibility for strategic planning, corporate finance, control, tax and auditing and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by these By-laws.
     
Section 4.09.
Controller.
The Controller shall exercise general supervision of the accounting departments of the Corporation. He shall be responsible to the Chief Financial Officer and shall render reports from time to time relating to the general financial condition of the Corporation. He shall render such other reports and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Chief Financial Officer, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Chairman.
Section 4.10.
Secretary.
The Secretary shall:
     
Section 4.11.
Assistant Corporate Secretary.
At the request of the Secretary, or in case of his absence or inability to act, the Assistant Corporate Secretary, or if there be more than one, any of the Assistant Corporate Secretaries, shall perform the duties of the Secretary and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the Secretary. Each Assistant Corporate Secretary shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or the Secretary.
     
Section 4.12.
General Auditor.
The General Auditor shall continuously examine the affairs of the Corporation. He shall have and may exercise such powers and duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice Chairman of the Board or the Chief Financial Officer.
     
Section 4.13.
Powers and Duties of Other Officers.
The powers and duties of all other officers of the Corporation shall be those usually pertaining to their respective offices, subject to the direction and control of the Board and as otherwise provided in these By-laws.
     
Unless otherwise provided by the Board, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer or the Secretary may from time to time (a) appoint an attorney or attorneys or an agent or agents of the Corporation to exercise in the name and on behalf of the Corporation the powers and rights which the Corporation may have as the holder of stock or other securities in any other entity to vote or consent in respect of such stock or other securities; (b) instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of exercising such powers and rights; and (c) execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf
of the Corporation and under its corporate seal, or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in order that the Corporation may exercise its said powers and rights.
     
Section 6.01.
Certificates for Stock; Uncertificated Shares
. The shares of all classes or series of the capital stock of the Corporation may be uncertificated shares, except to the extent otherwise required by applicable law and except to the extent shares are represented by outstanding certificates that have not been surrendered to the Corporation or its transfer agent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, every owner of stock of the Corporation of any class (or, if stock of any class shall be issuable in series, any series of such class) represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as the Board shall prescribe, certifying the number of shares of stock of the Corporation of such class, or such class and series, owned by him. The certificates representing shares of stock of each class (or, if there shall be more than one series of any class, each series of such class) shall be numbered in the order in which they shall be issued and shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or a Vice Chairman of the Board, and by the Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary; provided, however, that if any such certificate is countersigned by a registrar and the Board shall by resolution so authorize, the signatures of such Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Vice Chairman of the Board, Secretary or Assistant Corporate Secretary or any transfer agent may be facsimiles. In case any officer or officers or transfer agent of the Corporation who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been placed upon any such certificate shall cease to be such officer or officers or transfer agent before such certificate shall have been issued, such ce rtificate may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as though the person or persons who signed such certificate, or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been placed thereupon were such officer or officers or transfer agent at the date of issue. A stock ledger shall be kept of the respective names of the persons, firms or corporations owning stock represented by certificates for stock of the Corporation, the number, class and series of shares represented by such certificates, respectively, and the respective dates thereof, and in case of cancellation, the respective dates of cancellation. Every certificate surrendered to the Corporation for exchange or transfer shall be cancelled and a new certificate or certificates shall not be issued in exchange for any existing certificate until such existing certificate shall have been so cancelled, except in cases provided for in Section 6.04 or as otherwise required by law.
     
Section 6.02.
Transfers of Stock.
Transfers of shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be made on the stock books and records of the Corporation only by the registered holder thereof, or by his attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary, or with a transfer agent duly appointed, and upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed (or, with respect to uncertificated shares, by delivery of duly executed instructions or in any other
manner permitted by law) and payment of all taxes thereon. The person in whose name shares of stock stand on the stock books and records of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation.
     
Section 6.03.
Regulations.
The Board may make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with these By-laws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of uncertificated shares or certificates for stock of the Corporation. The Board may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars, and may require all certificates for stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them.
     
Section 6.04.
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed and Mutilated Certificates.
The owner of any stock of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of any certificate therefor, and the Corporation may issue uncertificated shares or a new certificate for stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it and alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Board may, in its discretion, require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or his legal representatives to give the Corporation a bond in such sum, limited or unlimited, and in such form and with such surety or sureties, as the Board shall in its uncontrolled discretion determine, to indemnify the Corporation against a ny claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate, or the issuance of any such new certificate or uncertificated shares. The Board may, however, in its discretion refuse to issue any such new certificate or uncertificated shares except pursuant to legal proceedings under the laws of the State of Delaware in such case made and provided.
     Section 6.05.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
     
The corporate seal of the Corporation shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the full name of the Corporation and the words and figures "Corporate Seal 1968 Delaware." The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
     
Section 9.01.
Right to Indemnification.
The Corporation shall
,
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect
,
indemnify any person (the "Indemnitee") who was or is involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness), or is threatened to be made so involved, in any threatened, pending or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative (including without limitation, any action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor, but excluding any action, suit, or proceeding, or part thereof, brought by such person against the Corporation or any affiliate of the Corporation unless consented to by the Corporation) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, or employee of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding (or part thereof). Such indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to receive payment in advance of any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law as then in effect.
     
Section 9.02.
Contracts and Funding.
The Corporation may enter into contracts with any director, officer, or employee of the Corporation in furtherance of the provisions of this Article IX and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided in this Article IX.
     
Section 9.03.
Employee Benefit Plans.
For purposes of this Article IX, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to any employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, or employee of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, or employee with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted i n a manner not opposed to the best interest of a corporation.
     
Section 9.04.
Indemnification Not Exclusive Right.
The right of indemnification and advancement of expenses provided in this Article IX shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which a person seeking indemnification may otherwise be entitled, under any statute, by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another
capacity while holding such office. The provisions of this Article IX shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any person entitled to indemnity under this Article IX and shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article IX, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption.
     
Section 9.05.
Advancement of Expenses; Procedures.
In furtherance, but not in limitation, of the foregoing provisions, the following procedures and remedies shall apply with respect to advancement of expenses and the right to indemnification under this Article IX:
Indemnitee is not a current or former director or a current officer of the Corporation, the Indemnitee
'
s entitlement to indemnification under this Article IX may be determined by the General Counsel. For purposes of this Article IX, the term "officer," when used with respect to the Corporation, shall mean those officers of the Corporation who are deemed to be Executive Officers for purposes of the annual report of the Corporation filed on Form 10-K under the Exchange Act.
     
Section 9.06.
Amendment or Repeal.
Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article IX shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any Indemnitee in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
     
Section 10.01.
Inspection.
A copy of the By-laws shall at all times be kept in a convenient place at the principal office of the Corporation, and shall be open for inspection by stockholders during business hours.
     
Section 10.02.
Amendments.
Except as otherwise specifically provided by the General Corporation Law, these By-laws may be added to, amended, altered or repealed at any meeting of the Board by vote of a majority of the entire Board, provided that written notice of any such proposed action shall be given to each director prior to such meeting, or that notice of such addition, amendment, alteration or repeal shall have been given at the preceding meeting of the Board.
     
Section 10.03.
Construction.
The masculine gender, where appearing in these By-laws, shall be deemed to include the feminine gender.

Exhibit 99.1
                 
THIS ASSIGNMENT, ASSUMPTION AND AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated as of June 25, 2008 is by and among JPMorgan Chase & Co., a Delaware corporation ("Parent"), The Bear Stearns Companies Inc., a Delaware corporation and direct subsidiary of Parent (the "Company") and Mellon Investor Services LLC, a limited liability company existing under the laws of the state of New Jersey, as Depositary (the "Depositary").
                 
WHEREAS
, the Company currently has three series of preferred stock issued and outstanding, consisting of the (x) 6.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, par value $1.00 per share (the "Bear Stearns Series E"), (y) 5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, par value $1.00 per share (the "Bear Stearns Series F"), and (z) 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, par value $1.00 per share (the "Bear Stearns Series G" and together with the Bear Stearns Series E and the Bear Stearns Series F, the "Preferred Stock"); and
                 
WHEREAS
, the Company has previously executed the following deposit agreements, which agreements remain in full force and effect: (1) Deposit Agreement, dated as of January 15, 1998, between Bear Stearns, Chase Mellon Shareholder Services L.L.C., as depositary, and the holders from time to time of depositary receipts (relating to the Bear Stearns Series E preferred stock), (2) Deposit Agreement, dated as of April 21, 1998, between Bear Stearns, Chase Mellon Shareholder Services L.L.C., as depositary, and the holders from time to time of depositary receipts (relating to the Bear Stearns Series F preferred stock) and (3) Deposit Agreement, dated as of June 19, 1998, between Bear Stearns, Chase Mellon Shareholder Services L.L.C., as depositary, and the holders fr om time to time of depositary receipts (relating to the Bear Stearns Series G preferred stock) (collectively, the "Deposit Agreements"); and
                 
WHEREAS
, the Depositary is the successor depositary to Chase Mellon Shareholder Services L.L.C., a limited liability company existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey; and
                 
WHEREAS
, on June 4, 2008, Parent, the Company and BSC Merger Corporation II, a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub") executed an Agreement and Plan of Merger, pursuant to which, at the effective time of the merger, Merger Sub would merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company surviving the Merger and with each outstanding share of Preferred Stock being converted into a share of preferred stock of Parent with substantially similar terms as the Preferred Stock (the "JPM Mirror Preferred Stock"); and
                 
WHEREAS
, upon consummation of the Merger, the Company desires to assign, and Parent desires to assume, the Company's obligations under the Deposit Agreements; and
                 
WHEREAS
, upon consummation of the Merger, Parent, pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Deposit Agreements, desires to have the Depositary treat the JPM Mirror Preferred Stock, which shall be received by the Depositary in exchange for or upon conversion of or in respect of
the Preferred Stock, as new deposited securities so received in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of such Preferred Stock.
                 
NOW, THEREFORE
, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                  Section 1.1     
Assignment
.
                 
Upon consummation of the Merger, the Company does hereby assign, transfer, convey and deliver unto Parent, its successors and assigns, all of its rights, interests and obligations under the Deposit Agreements.
                  Section 1.2     
Assumption
.
                 
Upon consummation of the Merger, Parent hereby accepts such assignment of the Company's rights, interests and obligations under the Deposit Agreements and agrees to assume and be liable for, and shall perform and discharge, all of the obligations of the Company under the Deposit Agreements. The Depositary hereby acknowledges and accepts the assignment of the Company's rights, interests and obligations under the Deposit Agreements to Parent and hereby agrees to recognize Parent as the assignee of the Company's obligations under the Deposit Agreements and release the Company of its obligations under the Deposit Agreements.
                  Section 2.1     
New Deposited Securities
.
                 
Pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Deposit Agreements, the Depositary hereby agrees to treat the JPM Mirror Preferred Stock, which shall be received by the Depositary in exchange for or upon conversion of or in respect of the Preferred Stock following consummation of the Merger, as new deposited securities so received in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of such Preferred Stock.
                  Section 2.2     
Certain Amendments
.
                 
The parties hereto agree that the Deposit Agreements shall remain in full force and effect following consummation of the Merger, except as modified as follows:
                 
(a)      Any reference to "Company" in the Deposit Agreements shall mean JPMorgan Chase & Co., a Delaware corporation having its principal office at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, and its successors.
                 
(b)      Any reference to "Stock" in the Depositary Agreement with respect to the Bear Stearns Series E preferred stock shall mean shares of JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s 6.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, par value $1.00 per share.
                 
(c)      Any reference to "Stock" in the Depositary Agreement with respect to the Bear Stearns Series F preferred stock shall mean shares of JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s 5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, par value $1.00 per share.
                 
(d)      Any reference to "Stock" in the Depositary Agreement with respect to the Bear Stearns Series G preferred stock shall mean shares of JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, par value $1.00 per share.
                 
(e)      Any reference to "Certificate of Designations" shall mean the Certificate of Designations filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware establishing the respective series of Stock as a series of preferred stock of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
                 
(f)      Any reference to "Certificate of Incorporation" shall mean the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended from time to time, of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
                  Section 2.3     
No Further Amendment
.
                 
Except as expressly amended hereby, the Deposit Agreements are in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, conditions, and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. The amendments contained in Article II of the Agreement are limited as written and shall not be deemed to be an amendment to any other term or condition of the Deposit Agreements or any of the documents referred to therein.
                 
Section 3.1     
Conditions to the Assignment, Assumption and Amendment
.  The provisions contained in Articles I and II of this Agreement shall become effective only upon consummation of the Merger.
                 
Section 4.1     
Termination
.  This Agreement may be terminated by Parent at any time prior to the Merger.
                 
Section 4.2     
Effect of Termination
.  In the event of termination of this Agreement, as provided in Section 4.1, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and have no effect, without any liability or obligation on the part of the parties hereto, other than the provisions of this Section 4.2 and Article 5.
                 
Section 5.1     
Successors; Binding Effect; Benefit
.  This Agreement shall be binding on the successors of the Depositary, Parent and the Company. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer upon any person or entity not a party to this Agreement any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement.
                 
Section 5.2     
Entire Agreement
.  This Agreement and any documents delivered by the parties in connection herewith constitute the entire agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements and understandings among the parties with respect thereto. No addition to or modification of any provision of this Agreement shall be binding upon any party hereto unless made in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
                 
Section 5.3     
Governing Law
.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to its rules of conflict of laws.
                 
Section 5.4     
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument. Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof each signed by less than all, but together signed by all of the parties hereto.
                 
Section 5.5     
Headings
.  Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only, and shall be given no substantive or interpretative effect whatsoever.
                 
Section 5.6     
Severability
.  Any term or provision of this Agreement which is invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or unenforceability without rendering invalid or unenforceable the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement or affecting the validity or enforceability of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction. If any provision of this Agreement is so broad as to be unenforceable, the provision shall be interpreted to be only so broadly as is enforceable.
                 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement and caused the same to be duly delivered on their behalf as of June 25, 2008.


