FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20080507192944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 8.01. Other Events
Entry Into First Supplemental Indenture
        On April 9, 2008, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (formerly Bankers Trust Company), entered into a First Supplemental Indenture, which supplements the Indenture, dated as of May 25, 2001, among JPMorgan Chase & Co., as issuer, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (formerly Bankers Trust Company), as trustee (the "Base Indenture"). The First Supplemental Indenture provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture, the holders of certain notes will have a right to demand repurchase of their notes. The First Supplemental Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto, and is incorporated into this report and into the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (333-130051) of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the "Registrant") by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (d) Exhibits
        The following Exhibit is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (333-130051) of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the "Registrant") as an exhibit thereto and is filed as part of this Current Report.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 7, 2008

           
EXECUTION COPY
        THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of April 9, 2008 between JPMORGAN CHASE & CO., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS (f/k/a Bankers Trust Company), a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (the "").
Issuer
Trustee
        WHEREAS, the Issuer and the Trustee are parties to that certain Indenture dated as of May 25, 2001 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the "");
Indenture
        WHEREAS, Section 8.01 of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of the holders of the Securities, the Issuer, when authorized by a resolution of its Board of Directors (which resolution may provide general terms or parameters for such action and may provide that the specific terms of such action may be determined in accordance with or pursuant to an Issuer Order), and the Trustee may enter into supplemental indentures to the Indenture for the purpose of making provisions in regard to such matters arising under the Indenture as the Issuer may deem necessary and desirable which do not materially and adversely affect the interests of the holders of the Securities;
        WHEREAS, the Issuer desires to modify certain provisions of the Indenture relating to repurchase at the option of the Holders of the Securities;
        WHEREAS, the entry into this First Supplemental Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects authorized by the provisions of the Indenture; and
        WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Issuer and the Trustee according to its terms and a valid supplement to the Indenture have been done;
        NOW, THEREFORE:
        In consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Securities by the holders thereof, the Issuer and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Securities as follows:
        Section 1.01. . The definition of "Corporate Trust Office" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Corporate Trust Office
        Section 1.02 . A new Article 13 is added to the Indenture as follows:
Addition of Article 13
Indenture or in the Securities, expressed or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any person, firm or corporation, other than the parties hereto and their successors and the holders of the Securities, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture or under any covenant or provision herein contained, all such covenants and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and of the holders of the Securities.
        Section 2.06. . This First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such State, except as may otherwise be required by mandatory provisions of law.
New York Law to Govern
        Section 2.07. . This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
        Section 2.08. . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, dated as of April 9, 2008.


