FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20080124155627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
The following Exhibits are incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (333-130051) of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the Registrant) as exhibits thereto and are filed as part of this Current Report.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: 
January 24, 2008
 
3
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 8.1
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
270 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the Company), in connection with the preparation and filing of pricing supplement no. 939 dated January 22, 2008 relating to Range Accrual Notes linked to the SIFMA Municipal Swap Index and the 3-month LIBOR due February 5, 2038 (the Pricing Supplement) to product supplemenRange Accrual Notes ent) to a prospectus supplement dated October 12, 2006 (the Prospectus Supplement) for the Companys Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated December 1, 2005 (the Prospectus) contained in the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration Statement No. 333-130051) (the Registration Statement).  This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Act).
t no. 96-II dated January 15, 2008 relating to
(the Product Supplem
In our opinion, the discussions under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement and under the heading Selected Purchase Considerations  , subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, set forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities offered pursuant to the Pricing Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
Taxed as Contingent Payment Debt Instruments in the Pricing Supplement
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement and under the heading Selected Purchase Considerations  .  By such consent we do not concede that we are an expert for the purposes of the Act.
Taxed as Contingent Payment Debt Instruments in the Pricing Supplement
 
 

 
Exhibit 8.2
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
270 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the Company), in connection with the preparation and filing of pricing supplement no. 940 dated January 23, 2008 relating to 12.00% (equivalent to 24.00% per annum) Reverse Exchangeable Notes due July 28, 2008 Linked to the Common Stock of The Children's Place Retail Stores, Inc. (the Pricing Supplement) to product supplement no. 34-V dated February 7, 2007 relating to Reverse Exchangeable Notes Linked to the Common Stock of a Reference Stock Issuer (the Product Supplement) to a prospectus supplement dated October 12, 2006 (the Prospectus Supplement) for the Companys Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated December 1, 2005 (the Prospectus) contained in the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration Statement No. 333-130051) (the Registration Statement).  This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Act).
In our opinion, the discussions under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement and under the heading Selected Purchase Considerations  Tax Treatment as a Unit Comprising a Put Option and a Deposit in the Pricing Supplement, subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, set forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities offered pursuant to the Pricing Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement, under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement and under the heading Selected Purchase Considerations  Tax Treatment as a Unit Comprising a Put Option and a Deposit in the Pricing Supplement.  By such consent we do not concede that we are an expert for the purposes of the Act.
 
 


