FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20081105072352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 31, 2008, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") announced the Chase Foreclosure Prevention Program. Information regarding this Program is included in the exhibits hereto.
The attached exhibits are being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in the exhibits shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Firm under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
The attached exhibits contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in JPMorgan Chase's Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 26, 2008, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2008, and March 31, 2008, and its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, each of which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website () and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
www.jpmchase.com
www.sec.gov
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Chase further strengthens robust programs to keep families in homes
 
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK, Oct. 31, 2008 - Chase today announced it is expanding its already significant mortgage modification program by undertaking multiple initiatives designed to keep more families in their homes, including extending its modification programs to WaMu and EMC customers.
Chase will open regional counseling centers, hire additional loan counselors, introduce new financing alternatives, proactively reach out to borrowers to offer pre-qualified modifications, and commence a new process to independently review each loan before moving it into the foreclosure process. Chase expects to implement these changes within the next 90 days.
While implementing these enhancements, Chase will not put any additional loans into the foreclosure process. This will give affected homeowners an opportunity to take advantage of the enhancements, and applies only to owner-occupied properties with mortgages owned by Chase, WaMu or EMC, or with investor approval.
Chase will continue to work diligently with investors to get their approval to apply these programs to the loans it services for others, so its efforts have the broadest possible impact. These programs are designed for homeowners who show a willingness to pay, so Chase, WaMu and EMC customers should continue to make mortgage payments to reflect their intent to honor their commitments.
"While Chase has helped many families already, we feel it is our responsibility to provide additional help to homeowners during these challenging times," said Charlie Scharf, CEO of Retail Financial Services at Chase. "We will work with families who want to save their homes but are struggling to make their payments."
The enhanced program is expected to help 400,000 families - with $70 billion in loans - in the next two years. Since early 2007, Chase, WaMu and EMC have helped about 250,000 families - with $40 billion in loans  avoid foreclosure, primarily by modifying their loans or payments. Both the existing and enhanced programs apply only to owner-occupied properties with mortgages owned by Chase, WaMu or EMC, or with investor approval.
Chase inherited pay-option ARMs when it acquired WaMu's mortgage portfolio last month and EMC's portfolio earlier this year as part of the Bear Stearns acquisition. After reviewing the alternatives that were being offered to customers, Chase decided to add more modification choices. All the offers will eliminate negative amortization and are expected to be more affordable for borrowers in the long term.
As a result of these enhancements for Chase, WaMu and EMC customers, Chase will:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The enhancements reflect Chase's commitment to continue to seek additional ways to help homeowners.
Chase acknowledges and appreciates the leadership of the U.S. Senate Banking and U.S. House Financial Services committees, the FDIC, a number of state attorneys general and community groups on this important issue, and the critical role they are playing in keeping families in their homes.
About Chase
Chase is the U.S. consumer and commercial banking business of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM), which operates more than 5,400 branches and 14,000 ATMs nationally under the Chase and WaMu brands. Chase has 157 million credit cards issued and serves consumers and small businesses through bank branches, ATMs and mortgage offices as well as through relationships with auto dealerships and schools and universities. It also serves more than 30,000 commercial banking clients, including corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profit entities. More information about Chase is available at .
www.chase.com



