FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20080513172758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
JPMorgan Chase & Co. today filed additional soliciting materials on Schedule 14A and is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to correct the description in its proxy statement dated March 31, 2008, of how votes are counted.
How votes are counted
The following description of how votes are counted corrects a statement in our proxy statement dated March 31, 2008, at page 41, that broker non-votes would have the same effect as abstentions. As described in earlier proxy statements, broker non-votes are not considered shares present for voting purposes, whether for management proposals or for shareholder proposals.
The affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of common stock present in person or by proxy at the annual meeting is required to approve the Amendment to the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, provided that a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock entitled to vote on the proposal are voted with respect to the proposal. In determining whether the proposal has received the requisite number of affirmative votes, abstentions will be counted and will have the same effect as a vote against the proposal. Broker non-votes are not considered shares present for voting purposes, but may affect the voting to the extent that broker non-votes cause less than a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock to be voted on the matter.
Amendment to the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of common stock present in person or by proxy at the annual meeting is required to approve all other proposals. In determining whether each of the other proposals has received the requisite number of affirmative votes, abstentions will be counted and will have the same effect as a vote against the proposal. Broker non-votes will have no impact since they are not considered shares present for voting purposes.
Other proposals 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 13, 2008


