FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20091014070856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 14, 2009, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") reported 2009 third quarter net income of $3.6 billion, or $0.82 per share, compared with net income of $527 million, or $0.09 per share, for the third quarter of 2008. A copy of the 2009 third quarter earnings release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and a copy of the earnings release financial supplement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Each of the Exhibits provided with this Form 8-K shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
This current report on Form 8-K (including the Exhibits hereto) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Firm's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2009 and March 31, 2009, and its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, each of which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website (
www.jpmorganchase.com
) and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (
www.sec.gov
). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 14, 2009 
 

EXHIBIT 12.1
 

EXHIBIT 12.2
 

JPMorgan Chase & Co. 270 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017-2070 NYSE symbol: JPM
www.jpmorganchase.com
News release: IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) today reported third-quarter 2009 net income of $3.6 billion, compared with net income of $527 million in the third quarter of 2008. Earnings per share were $0.82, compared with $0.09 in the prior year.
New York, October 14, 2009
Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented: "Our net income of $3.6 billion in the quarter reflected the strong earnings power of the company, with broad-based growth across the Investment Bank, Asset Management, Commercial Banking and Retail Banking. However, credit costs remain high and are expected to stay elevated for the foreseeable future in the Consumer Lending and Card Services loan portfolios. Accordingly, we have added $2.0 billion to our consumer credit reserves, bringing the firmwide total to $31.5 billion, or 5.3% of total loans. Tier 1 Common Capital, another key element of our fortress balance sheet, was also strengthened through capital generation during the quarter, to $101 billion, or 8.2%."
1
Dimon further remarked: "JPMorgan Chase continues to help consumers and communities in this challenging economy. We recently announced the decision to revamp our overdraft policies to make it easier for customers to have more control over the fees they pay. In addition, our Card Services business has developed new innovative products that enhance the way customers manage their spending and borrowing. We are also aiding communities by working with struggling mortgage customers to modify their loans. We have approved more than 262,000 new trial modifications under the U.S. Making Home Affordable Program and our own modification program, nearly 90% of which include a reduction in payments for the homeowner. Since 2007, we have helped families by initiating 782,000 actions to prevent foreclosure, and we are committed to doing our part to support economic recovery going forward."
 
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Discussing the firm's outlook, Dimon concluded: "While we are seeing some initial signs of consumer credit stability, we are not yet certain that this trend will continue. Despite this near-term uncertainty about the path of the economy, our strong capital position and underlying earnings power will enable us to continue to invest in our businesses, creating a lasting franchise for many years to come."
In the discussion below of the business segments and of JPMorgan Chase as a firm, information is presented on a managed basis. Managed basis starts with GAAP results and includes the following adjustments: for Card Services and the firm as a whole, the impact of credit card securitizations is excluded; and for each line of business and the firm as a whole, net revenue is shown on a tax-equivalent basis. For more information about managed basis, as well as other financial measures used by management to evaluate the performance of each line of business, see page 12.
The following discussion compares the third quarter of 2009 with the third quarter of 2008 unless otherwise noted.
INVESTMENT BANK (IB)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $1.9 billion, an increase of $1.0 billion from the third quarter of 2008. These results included the negative impact of the tightening of the firm's credit spread, offset by the positive impact of counterparty spread tightening and gains on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage-related positions.
Net revenue was $7.5 billion, an increase of $3.4 billion, or 85%, from the prior year. Investment banking fees were up 4% to $1.7 billion, consisting of equity underwriting fees of $681 million (up 31%), debt underwriting fees of $593 million (up 19%) and advisory fees of $384 million (down 33%). Fixed Income Markets revenue was $5.0 billion, up by $4.2 billion, reflecting strong results across most products and gains of approximately $400 million on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage-related positions, compared with markdowns of $3.6 billion in the prior year. These results also included losses of $497 million from the tightening of the firm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities, compared with gains of $343 million in the prior year from the widening of the spread on those liabilities. Equity Markets revenue was $941 million, down by $709 million, or 43%, which included losses of $343 million from the tightening of the firm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities, compared with gains in the prior year of $429 million from the widening of the spread on those liabilities. The current period's results also included solid client revenue, particularly in prime services, and strong trading results. Credit Portfolio revenue was a loss of $102 million, reflecting mark-to-market losses on hedges of retained loans, largely offset by a combination of the positive net impact of credit spreads on derivative assets and liabilities, and net interest income on loans.
The provision for credit losses increased to $379 million, compared with $234 million in the prior year. The increase in the provision reflected higher charge-offs of $750 million, partially offset by
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
a reduction of $371 million in the allowance for credit losses. The resulting allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 8.44%, compared with 3.62% in the prior year. Nonperforming loans were $4.9 billion, up by $4.5 billion from the prior year and $1.4 billion from the prior quarter.
Noninterest expense was $4.3 billion, up by $458 million, or 12%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by higher performance-based compensation, partially offset by lower headcount-related expense.
1
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES (RFS)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $7 million, a decrease of $57 million from the third quarter of 2008, as an increase in the provision for credit losses was largely offset by the positive impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Compared with the prior quarter, net income decreased by $8 million, reflecting a decrease in mortgage production revenue, an increase in the provision for credit losses, higher noninterest expense and lower loan balances; these effects were largely offset by positive MSR risk management results and wider loan and deposit spreads.
Net revenue was $8.2 billion, an increase of $3.3 billion, or 66%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $5.2 billion, up by $1.9 billion, or 60%, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider loan spreads and higher deposit balances offset partially by lower loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $3.1 billion, up by $1.3 billion, or 77%, driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher net mortgage servicing revenue and higher deposit-related fees, partially offset by lower mortgage production revenue.
The provision for credit losses was $4.0 billion, an increase of $1.9 billion from the prior year. Weak economic conditions and housing price declines continued to drive higher estimated losses for the home equity and mortgage loan portfolios. The provision included an addition of $1.4 billion to the allowance for loan losses, compared with additions of $730 million in the prior year
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
and $1.2 billion in the prior quarter. Included in the third-quarter 2009 addition to the allowance for loan losses was a $1.1 billion increase related to estimated deterioration in the Washington Mutual purchased credit-impaired portfolio. Home equity net charge-offs were $1.1 billion (4.25% net charge-off rate), compared with $663 million (2.78% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Subprime mortgage net charge-offs were $422 million (12.31% net charge-off rate), compared with $273 million (7.65% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Prime mortgage net charge-offs were $525 million (3.45% net charge-off rate), compared with $177 million (1.79% net charge-off rate) in the prior year.
1
1
1
Noninterest expense was $4.2 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion, or 51%. The increase reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher servicing expense, partially offset by lower mortgage reinsurance losses.
reported net income of $1.0 billion, up by $320 million, or 44%, from the prior year. Compared with the prior quarter, net income increased by $73 million, or 8%, due to a decline in the provision for credit losses, wider deposit spreads and higher deposit-related fees; these were offset largely by higher noninterest expense and lower deposit balances.
Retail Banking
Net revenue was $4.6 billion, up by $1.7 billion, or 61%, from the prior year. The increase reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher deposit balances, higher deposit-related fees and wider deposit spreads.
The provision for credit losses was $208 million, compared with $70 million in the prior year, reflecting higher estimated losses for Business Banking loans.
Noninterest expense was $2.6 billion, up by $1.1 billion, or 67%. The increase reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher headcount-related expenseand higher FDIC insurance premiums.
1
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
reported a net loss of $1.0 billion, compared with a net loss of $659 million in the prior year and $955 million in the prior quarter. Compared with the prior quarter, results decreased by $81 million, reflecting a decrease in mortgage production revenue, an increase in the provision for credit losses and lower loan balances, largely offset by higher MSR risk management results and wider loan spreads.
Consumer Lending
Net revenue was $3.6 billion, up by $1.5 billion, or 72%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage fees and related income and wider loan spreads, partially offset by lower loan balances. Mortgage production revenue was negative $70 million, compared with positive $66 million in the prior year, as an increase in reserves for the repurchase of previously-sold loans was predominantly offset by wider margins on new originations. Operating revenue, which represents loan servicing revenue net of other changes in fair value of the MSR asset, was $508 million, compared with $264 million in the prior year, reflecting growth in average third-party loans serviced as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction. MSR risk management results were $435 million, compared with $108 million in the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was $3.8 billion, compared with $2.0 billion in the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the home equity and mortgage loan portfolios (see Retail Financial Services discussion of the provision for credit losses, above, for further detail).
Noninterest expense was $1.6 billion, up by $351 million, or 29%, from the prior year, reflecting higher servicing expense due to increased delinquencies and defaults and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partially offset by lower mortgage reinsurance losses.
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
CARD SERVICES (CS)
(a)
 
Discussion of Results:
Card Services reported a net loss of $700 million, a decline of $992 million from the third quarter of 2008. The decrease was driven by a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher net revenue.
End-of-period managed loans were $165.2 billion, a decrease of $21.3 billion, or 11%, from the prior year and $6.3 billion, or 4%, from the prior quarter. The decrease from the prior year was due to lower charge volume and a higher level of charge-offs. Average managed loans were $169.2 billion, an increase of $11.6 billion, or 7%, from the prior year and a decrease of $4.9 billion, or 3%, from the prior quarter. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, end-of-period and average managed loans were $144.1 billion and $146.9 billion, respectively.
Managed net revenue was $5.2 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion, or 33%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $4.3 billion, up by $1.1 billion, or 34%, driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and wider loan spreads. These benefits were offset partially by higher revenue reversals associated with higher charge-offs, lower average loan balances and a decreased level of fees. Noninterest revenue was $831 million, up by $185 million, or 29%. The increase was driven by higher merchant servicing revenue related to the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
The managed provision for credit losses was $5.0 billion, an increase of $2.7 billion from the prior year, reflecting a higher level of charge-offs and an increase of $575 million in the allowance for loan losses. The managed net charge-off rate for the quarter was 10.30%, up from 5.00% in the prior year and 10.03% in the prior quarter. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 5.99%, up from 3.91% in the prior year and 5.86% in the prior quarter. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, the managed net charge-off rate for the third quarter was 9.41%, and the 30-day delinquency rate was 5.38%.
Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion, an increase of $112 million, or 9%, from the prior year, due to the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
COMMERCIAL BANKING (CB)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $341 million, an increase of $29 million, or 9%, from the third quarter of 2008. Higher net revenue, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, was predominantly offset by a higher provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $1.5 billion, an increase of $334 million, or 30%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $985 million, up by $248 million, or 34%, driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Excluding Washington Mutual, net interest income was flat compared with the prior year, as spread compression on liability products and lower loan balances were offset by wider loan spreads, a shift to higher-spread liability products and overall growth in liability balances. Noninterest revenue was $474 million, an increase of $86 million, or 22%, reflecting higher lending- and deposit-related fees.
Revenue from Middle Market Banking was $771 million, an increase of $42 million, or 6%, from the prior year. Revenue from Commercial Term Lending was $232 million, an increase of $8 million, or 4%, from the prior quarter. Revenue from Mid-Corporate Banking was $278 million, an increase of $42 million, or 18%, from the prior year. Revenue from Real Estate Banking was $121 million, an increase of $30 million, or 33%, from the prior year due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
The provision for credit losses was $355 million, compared with $126 million in the prior year, reflecting continued deterioration in the credit environment across all business segments, particularly real estate-related segments. Net charge-offs were $291 million (1.11% net charge-off rate), compared with $40 million (0.22% net charge-off rate) in the prior year and $181 million (0.67% net charge-off rate) in the prior quarter. The allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 3.01%, up from 2.30% in the prior year and 2.87% in the prior quarter. Nonperforming loans were $2.3 billion, up by $1.5 billion from the prior year and up by $191 million from the prior quarter.
Noninterest expense was $545 million, an increase of $59 million, or 12%, from the prior year, due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher FDIC insurance premiums.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES (TSS)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $302 million, a decrease of $104 million, or 26%, from the third quarter of 2008. The decrease was driven by lower net revenue offset partially by lower noninterest expense. Net income decreased by $77 million, or 20%, from the prior quarter, reflecting a decline of seasonal activity in securities lending and depositary receipts.
Net revenue was $1.8 billion, a decrease of $165 million, or 8%, from the prior year. Worldwide Securities Services net revenue was $869 million, a decrease of $138 million, or 14%. The decrease was driven by lower securities lending balances, primarily as a result of declines in asset valuations and demand, lower spreads and balances on liability products, and the effect of market depreciation on certain custody assets. Treasury Services net revenue was $919 million, a decrease of $27 million, or 3%. The decrease reflected spread compression on deposit products offset by higher trade revenue driven by wider spreads, and higher card product volumes. TSS firmwide net revenue, which includes net revenue recorded in other lines of business, was $2.5 billion, a decrease of $149 million, or 6%, primarily due to declines in Worldwide Securities Services. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue was $1.7 billion, flat compared with the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was $13 million, a decrease of $5 million from the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion, a decrease of $59 million, or 4%. The decrease reflected lower headcount-related expense, partially offset by higher FDIC insurance premiums.
1
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
ASSET MANAGEMENT (AM)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $430 million, an increase of $79 million, or 23%, from the third quarter of 2008, as higher net revenue and lower noninterest expense were offset partially by a higher provision for credit losses.
Net revenue was $2.1 billion, an increase of $124 million, or 6%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $1.7 billion, an increase of $100 million, or 6%, due to gains on the firm's seed capital investments and net inflows, largely offset by the effect of lower market levels and decreased placement fees. Net interest income was $404 million, up by $24 million, or 6%, from the prior year, due to wider loan spreads and higher deposit balances, largely offset by narrower deposit spreads and lower loan balances.
Revenue from the Private Bank was $639 million, up 1%, from the prior year. Revenue from Institutional was $534 million, up 10%. Revenue from Retail was $471 million, up 18%. Revenue from Private Wealth Management was $339 million, down 4%. Revenue from Bear Stearns Private Client Services was $102 million, up 10%.
Assets under supervision were $1.7 trillion, an increase of $108 billion, or 7%, from the prior year. Assets under management were $1.3 trillion, an increase of $106 billion, or 9%. The increases were due to inflows in liquidity, fixed income and equity products, partially offset by the effect of lower market levels and outflows in alternative products. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit balances were $411 billion, up by $2 billion, due to brokerage inflows in the Private Bank, partially offset by the effect of lower market levels on custody and brokerage balances.
The provision for credit losses was $38 million, an increase of $18 million from the prior year, reflecting continued deterioration in the credit environment.
Noninterest expense was $1.4 billion, down by $11 million, or 1%, from the prior year. The decrease was due to lower headcount-related expense, offset by higher performance-based compensation and higher FDIC insurance premiums.
1
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY
(a)
 
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $1.3 billion, compared with a net loss of $1.8 billion in the third quarter of 2008.
Private Equity reported net income of $88 million, compared with a net loss of $164 million in the prior year. Net revenue was $172 million, an increase of $388 million, reflecting Private Equity gains of $155 million, compared with losses of $206 million in the prior year. Noninterest expense was $34 million, a decrease of $7 million.
Net income for Corporate was $1.3 billion, compared with a net loss of $881 million in the prior year. Net revenue was $2.4 billion, reflecting continued elevated levels of investment portfolio trading income and net interest income.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
JPMORGAN CHASE (JPM)
(a)
 
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $3.6 billion, an increase of $3.1 billion from the third quarter of 2008. The increase in earnings was driven by higher net revenue, partially offset by increases to both the provision for credit losses and noninterest expense.
Managed net revenue was $28.8 billion, an increase of $12.7 billion, or 79%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $14.0 billion, up by $8.7 billion, or 167%. The increase was driven by higher principal transactions, primarily related to the absence of markdowns on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage positions and strong trading results in the Investment Bank, as well as higher investment portfolio trading income in Corporate. These results also benefited from the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Net interest income was $14.8 billion, up by $3.9 billion, or 36%, due to the impact of Washington Mutual, wider loan spreads and higher investment portfolio net interest income.
The managed provision for credit losses was $9.8 billion, up by $3.1 billion, or 47%, from the prior year. The consumer-managed provision for credit losses was $9.0 billion, compared with $5.7 billion in the prior year, reflecting higher net charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for credit losses in the home lending and credit card loan portfolios. Consumer-managed net charge-offs were $7.0 billion, compared with $3.3 billion in the prior year, resulting in managed net charge-off rates of 6.29% and 3.39%, respectively. The wholesale provision for credit losses was $779 million, compared with $962 million in the prior year. The current-quarter provision reflected higher net charge-offs, partially offset by a reduction in allowance in the Investment Bank. Wholesale net charge-offs were $1.1 billion, compared with $52 million in the prior year, resulting in net charge-off rates of 1.93% and 0.10%, respectively. The firm's nonperforming assets totaled $20.4 billion at September 30, 2009, up from the prior-year level of $9.5 billion.
Noninterest expense was $13.5 billion, up by $2.3 billion, or 21%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher performance-based compensation expense, partially offset by lower headcount-related expense.
1
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
1. Notes on financial measures:
a. In addition to analyzing the firm's results on a reported basis, management analyzes the firm's results and the results of the lines of business on a managed basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes the following adjustments.
First, for Card Services and the firm, managed basis excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. The presentation of Card Services results on a managed basis assumes that credit card loans that have been securitized and sold still remain on the balance sheet, and that the earnings on the securitized loans are classified in the same manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on the balance sheet. JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of managed basis to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial performance of the entire managed credit card portfolio. Operations are funded and decisions are made about allocating resources, such as employees and capital, based on managed financial information. In addition, the same underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both loans on the balance sheet and securitized loans. Although securitizations result in the sale of credit card receivables to a trust, JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoing customer relationships, as the customers may continue to use their credit cards; accordingly, the customer's credit performance will affect both the securitized loans and the loans retained on the balance sheet. JPMorgan Chase believes managed-basis information is useful to investors, enabling them to understand both the credit risks associated with the loans reported on the balance sheet and the firm's retained interests in securitized loans.
Second, managed revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the segments and the firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This methodology allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense.
See page 6 of JPMorgan Chase's Earnings Release Financial Supplement (third quarter 2009) for a reconciliation of JPMorgan Chase's income statement from a reported basis to a managed basis.
b. The ratio for the allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans excludes the following: loans accounted for at fair value and loans held-for-sale; purchased credit-impaired loans; the allowance for loan losses related to purchased credit-impaired loans; and, loans from the Washington Mutual Master Trust, which were consolidated on the firm's balance sheet at fair value during the second quarter of 2009. Additionally, Consumer Lending net charge-off rates exclude the impact of purchased credit-impaired loans. The allowance related to the purchased credit-impaired portfolio was $1.1 billion at September 30, 2009.
c. Tier 1 Common Capital ("Tier 1 Common") is calculated, for all purposes, as Tier 1 Capital less qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities and qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries.
d. Headcount-related expense includes salary and benefits, and other noncompensation costs related to employees.
e. Pretax margin represents income before income tax expense divided by total net revenue, which is, in management's view, a comprehensive measure of pretax performance derived by measuring earnings after all costs are taken into consideration. It is, therefore, another basis that management uses to evaluate the performance of TSS and AM against the performance of their respective competitors.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.0 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan, Chase, and WaMu brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
JPMorgan Chase will host a conference call today at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review third-quarter financial results. The general public can access the call by dialing (866) 541-2724 or (877) 368-8360 in the U.S. and Canada; and (706) 634-7246 for International participants. The live audio webcast and presentation slides will be available at the firm's website, , under Investor Relations, Investor Presentations.
www.jpmorganchase.com
A replay of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately noon on Wednesday, October 14, through midnight on Saturday, October 31, by telephone at (800) 642-1687 (U.S. and Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International); use Conference ID 26186483. The replay will also be available via webcast on under Investor Relations, Investor Presentations. Additional detailed financial, statistical and business-related information is included in a financial supplement. The earnings release and the financial supplement are available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.jpmorganchase.com
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in JPMorgan Chase's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009, and in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, each of which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website () and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.sec.gov
 
 

 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page 1
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except per share, ratio and headcount data)
 
Page 2
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. STATEMENTS OF INCOME (in millions, except per share and ratio data)
 
Page 3
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions)
 
Page 4
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CONDENSED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND ANNUALIZED YIELDS (in millions, except rates)
 
Page 5
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RECONCILIATION FROM REPORTED TO MANAGED SUMMARY (in millions)
The Firm prepares its consolidated financial statements using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). That presentation, which is referred to as "reported basis," provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's results and the results of lines of business on a "managed" basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that assume credit card loans securitized by Card Services remain on the balance sheet and presents revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent ("FTE") basis. These adjustments do not have any impact on net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole. The impact of these adjustments are summarized below. For additional information about managed basis, please refer to the Glossary of Terms on page 37.
Page 6
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. LINE OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  MANAGED BASIS (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 7
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. INVESTMENT BANK FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 8
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. INVESTMENT BANK FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except headcount and ratio data)
 
Page 9
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. INVESTMENT BANK FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio and rankings data)
 
Page 10
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio and headcount data)
 
Page 11
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 12
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
 
Page 13
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
 
Page 14
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
 
Page 15
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in billions, except where otherwise noted)
 
Page 16
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CARD SERVICES  MANAGED BASIS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
 
Page 17
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CARD SERVICES  MANAGED BASIS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except headcount and ratio data)
 
Page 18
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CARD RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED AND MANAGED DATA (in millions)
 
Page 19
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. COMMERCIAL BANKING FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 20
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. COMMERCIAL BANKING FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio and headcount data)
 
Page 21
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except headcount and ratio data)
 
Page 22
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
TSS firmwide metrics include revenue recorded in the CB, Retail Banking and Asset Management ("AM") lines of business and excludes FX revenue recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity. In order to capture the firmwide impact of Treasury Services ("TS") and TSS products and revenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
 
Page 23
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. ASSET MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio, ranking and headcount data)
 
Page 24
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. ASSET MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in billions)
Page 25
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. ASSET MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in billions)
Page 26
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except headcount data)
 
Page 27
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 28
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION (in millions)
 
Page 29
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 30
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 31
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 32
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION, CONTINUED (in millions)
 
Page 33
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. MARKET RISK-RELATED INFORMATION (in millions)
 
Page 34
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CAPITAL, INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND DEPOSITS (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 35
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. PER SHARE-RELATED INFORMATION (in millions, except per share and ratio data)
 
Page 36
 
Automated Clearing House.
ACH:
Represents period-end Allowance for loan losses divided by retained loans.
Allowance for loan losses to total loans :
Refers to total assets on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Average managed assets:
Represents the interest of third-party holders of debt/equity securities, or other obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates. The underlying obligations of the VIEs consist of short-term borrowings, commercial paper and long-term debt. The related assets consist of trading assets, available-for-sale securities, loans and other assets.
Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs:
In accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bankruptcy, whichever is earlier.
Contractual credit card charge-off:
Includes Private Equity, Treasury and Corporate Other, which includes other centrally managed expense and discontinued operations.
Corporate/Private Equity:
Card Services' managed results excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. Through securitization, the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card receivables into securities, which are sold to investors. The credit card receivables are removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheets through the transfer of the receivables to a trust and the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investors to specific cash flows generated from the credit card receivables. The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests as seller's interests, which are recorded in loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. A gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in other income. Securitization also affects the Firm's Consolidated Statements of Income as the aggregate amount of interest income, certain fee revenue and recoveries that is in excess of the aggregate amount of interest paid to the investors, gross credit losses and other trust expense related to the securitized receivables are reclassified into credit card income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Credit card securitizations:
Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FASB:
Represent an ownership interest in cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables transferred by a third-party seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity, generally a trust.
Interests in purchased receivables:
An indication of credit quality based upon JPMorgan Chase's internal risk assessment system. "Investment-grade" generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a "BBB-"/"Baa3" or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
Investment-grade:
A non-GAAP presentation of financial results that includes reclassifications related to credit card securitizations and to present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure at the segment level because it believes this provides information to enable investors to understand the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
Managed basis:
Refers to credit card receivables on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Managed credit card receivables:
A measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market value is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan Chase and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for the Firm. When the mark-to-market value is negative, JPMorgan Chase owes the counterparty. In this situation, the Firm does not have repayment risk.
Mark-to-market exposure:
Reflects costs associated with the Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns mergers in 2008.
Merger costs:
Includes changes in MSR asset fair value due to inputs or assumptions in model and derivative valuation adjustments and other.
MSR risk management revenue:
Represents net charge-offs (annualized) divided by average retained loans for the reporting period.
Net charge off ratio:
The average rate for interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
Not meaningful.
NM:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.
Overhead ratio:
Realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities (including physical commodities inventories that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value) and changes in fair value associated with financial instruments held by the Investment Bank for which the fair value option was elected. Principal transactions revenue also include private equity gains and losses.
Principal transactions (revenue):
Loans that are held for investment excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value.
Retained loans:
Financial statements prepared under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations, but excludes the impact of taxable equivalent adjustments.
Reported basis:
Total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to fully taxable securities and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense.
Taxable-equivalent basis:
Financial statements and information that have not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent certified public accountant to express an opinion.
Unaudited:
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
U.S. GAAP:
A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Value-at-risk:
Page 37
 
Investment Banking
IB'S REVENUE COMPRISES THE FOLLOWING:
include advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.
1. Investment banking fees
include client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets, including foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and commodities markets.
2. Fixed income markets
include client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives and convertibles.
3. Equities markets
includes net interest income, fees and loan sale activity, as well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, for the IB's credit portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the Firm's lending and derivative activities, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment, which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty.
4. Credit portfolio revenue
Retail Financial Services
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN RETAIL BANKING:
Retail branch office personnel who acquire, retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assessing customer needs and recommending and selling appropriate banking products and services.
1. Personal bankers 
Retail branch office personnel who specialize in the marketing of a single product, including mortgages, investments, and business banking, by partnering with the personal bankers.
2. Sales specialists 
MORTGAGE FEES AND RELATED INCOME COMPRISE THE FOLLOWING:
includes net gains or losses on originations and sales of prime and subprime mortgage loans and other production-related fees.
1. Production revenue
2. Net mortgage servicing revenue
MORTGAGE ORIGINATION CHANNELS COMPRISE THE FOLLOWING:
Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.
1. Retail 
A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for loans.
2. Wholesale 
Correspondents are banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.
3. Correspondent 
These transactions occur when mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis, and exclude purchased bulk servicing transactions. These transactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportunities in the servicing portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.
4. Correspondent negotiated transactions ("CNT") 
Card Services
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN CARD SERVICES:
Represents the dollar amount of cardmember purchases, balance transfers and cash advance activity.
1. Charge volume 
Includes originations, purchases and sales.
2. Net accounts opened 
Represents a business that processes bank card transactions for merchants.
3. Merchant acquiring business 
Represents the dollar amount of transactions processed for merchants.
4. Bank card volume 
Represents the number of transactions and authorizations processed for merchants.
5. Total transactions 
Page 38
 
Commercial Banking
COMMERCIAL BANKING REVENUE COMPRISES THE FOLLOWING:
includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are primarily provided on a basis secured by receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets. Products include term loans, revolving lines of credit, bridge financing, asset-based structures and leases.
1. Lending
2. includes a broad range of products and services enabling clients to transfer, invest and manage the receipt and disbursement of funds, while providing the related information reporting. These products and services include U.S. dollar and multi-currency clearing, ACH, lockbox, disbursement and reconciliation services, check deposits, other check and currency-related services, trade finance and logistics solutions, commercial card, and deposit products, sweeps and money market mutual funds.
Treasury services
3. products provide clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives, as well as balance sheet and risk management tools through loan syndications, investment-grade debt, asset-backed securities, private placements, high-yield bonds, equity underwriting, advisory, interest rate derivatives, foreign exchange hedges and securities sales.
Investment banking
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN COMMERCIAL BANKING:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements.
1. Liability balances
 Represents total revenue related to investment banking products sold to CB clients.
2. IB revenue, gross
Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services include certain TSS product revenue and liability balances reported in other lines of business related to customers who are also customers of those other lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary, in management's view, in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
firmwide metrics
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements.
Liability balances
Asset Management
Represent assets actively managed by Asset Management on behalf of Institutional, Retail, Private Banking, Private Wealth Management and Bear Stearns Private Client Services clients. Excludes assets managed by American Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 42% ownership interest as of September 30, 2009.
Assets under management:
Represents assets under management as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Assets under supervision:
The following types of assets constitute alternative investments  hedge funds, currency, real estate and private equity.
Alternative assets:
AM's CLIENT SEGMENTS COMPRISE THE FOLLOWING:
brings comprehensive global investment services  including asset management, pension analytics, asset/liability management and active risk budgeting strategies  to corporate and public institutions, endowments, foundations, not-for-profit organizations and governments worldwide.
1. Institutional
provides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning and administration through third-party and direct distribution of a full range of investment vehicles.
2. Retail
The addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services.
3.
Private Bank
offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business owners in the United States comprehensive wealth management solutions, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, and specialty-wealth advisory services.
4. Private Wealth Management
provides investment advice and wealth management services to high-net-worth individuals, money managers, and small corporations.
5. Bear Stearns Private Client Services
Page 39


