FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20090107133929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01.      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
The following Exhibit is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (333-155535) of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the Registrant) as exhibit thereto and is filed as part of this Current Report.
 
2
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 7, 2009
 
3
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
4
 
 

 
Exhibit 8.1
 
DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL
 
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
270 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special tax counsel to JPMorgan Chase & Co., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware (the Company), in connection with the preparation and filing of product supplement no. 159-A-I dated January 7, 2009 relating to (the Product Supplement) to a prospectus supplement dated November 21, 2008 (the Prospectus Supplement) for the Companys Global Medium-Term Notes, Series E, Global Warrants, Series E and Global Units, Series E, relating to a prospectus dated November 21, 2008 (the Prospectus) contained in the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration Statement No. 333-155535) (the Registration Statement).  This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Section 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Act).
Reverse Exchangeable Notes Linked to Two or More Reference Stocks
In our opinion, the discussions under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement and under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement, subject to the conditions and limitations described therein, set forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable generally to holders of the securities to be offered pursuant to the Product Supplement as a result of the ownership and disposition of such securities.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under the heading United States Federal Taxation in the Prospectus Supplement and under the heading Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences in the Product Supplement.  By such consent we do not concede that we are an expert for the purposes of the Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 


