FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20090115065610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 15, 2009, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") reported 2008 fourth quarter net income of $702 million, or $0.07 per share, compared with net income of $3.0 billion, or $0.86 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2007. A copy of the 2008 fourth quarter earnings release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and a copy of the earnings release financial supplement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Each of the Exhibits provided with this Form 8-K shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
This current report on Form 8-K (including the Exhibits hereto) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Firm's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2008, June 30, 2008, and March 31, 2008, and its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, each of which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website () and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.sec.gov
). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 15, 2009
Table of Contents

Exhibit 12.1
 

Exhibit 12.2
 

Exhibit 99.1
News release: IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) today reported fourth-quarter 2008 net income of $702 million, compared with net income of $3.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007. Earnings per share were $0.07, compared with $0.86 in the fourth quarter of 2007. For the full year 2008, net income was $5.6 billion, or $1.37 per share, down 64% from $15.4 billion, or $4.38 per share, in 2007.
New York, January 15, 2009
 
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented: "Our fourth-quarter financial results were very disappointing, driven by a loss in Investment Banking largely attributable to continued markdowns on leveraged loans and mortgage trading positions, as well as weak trading results. We also faced higher credit costs associated with continued deterioration across our loan portfolios, including a $4.1 billion addition to loan loss reserves. However, we continued to see underlying growth in many business areas. The integration of our recently-acquired Washington Mutual franchise has progressed well, and we continued to grow in Treasury & Securities Services and Commercial Banking. We also opened millions of new checking and credit card accounts, experienced net inflows in assets under management, and gained Investment Banking market share in all major fee categories."
As of December 31, 2008, the firm reported a Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.8% (estimated). During the year, the firm increased its total allowance for loan losses to $23.2 billion, resulting in a firmwide coverage ratio of 3.16%. Dimon commented, "While the diversified nature of our franchise and strong capital position have enabled us to weather the recessionary environment so far, we added $13.9 billion to our allowance for loan losses in 2008 to keep this important component of our fortress balance sheet firmly intact."
4
Looking ahead to 2009, Dimon continued: "If the economic environment deteriorates further, which is a distinct possibility, it is reasonable to expect additional negative impact on our market-related businesses, continued higher loan losses and increases to our credit reserves."
"We are doing our part to help stabilize the financial markets and hasten recovery. We assumed risk and expended resources to assimilate Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual. We continued to lend in a safe and sound manner  extending more than $100 billion in new credit in the fourth quarter alone to consumers, businesses, municipalities, and non-profit organizations. We also prevented more than 300,000 foreclosures, and we plan to help more than 300,000 more families keep their homes through mortgage modifications over the next two years. In addition, we currently have billions invested in renewable energy projects, including wind farms and solar facilities, to provide green energy for the current and future generations."
5
Dimon added: "JPMorgan Chase's management team is working diligently to manage through this very difficult business climate, and to position the franchise to benefit when the economy eventually recovers. No matter how difficult the environment may get, we at JPMorgan Chase remain fully committed to delivering for our clients, supporting our franchise, and doing all we can to help restore broad-based economic growth and prosperity."
In the discussion below of the business segments and of JPMorgan Chase as a firm, information is presented on a managed basis. Managed basis starts with GAAP results and includes the following adjustments: for Card Services and the firm as a whole, the impact of credit card securitizations is excluded, and for each line of business and the firm as a whole, net revenue is shown on a tax-equivalent basis. For more information about managed basis, as well as other non-GAAP financial measures used by management to evaluate the performance of each line of business, see Notes 1 and 2 (page 13).
Commencing this quarter: (1) RFS has been resegmented into two reporting segments; and (2) prime mortgage balances originated in RFS but previously reported in Corporate/Private Equity are now being reported in RFS. In addition, end-of-period third quarter balance sheet amounts related to assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Washington Mutual Bank have been reclassified into the
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
appropriate business segment for the 2008 third quarter. For further information, see JPMorgan Chase's Earning Release Financial Supplement filed by the Firm today.
The following discussion compares the fourth quarter of 2008 with the fourth quarter of 2007 unless otherwise noted.
INVESTMENT BANK (IB)
Discussion of Results:
Net loss was $2.4 billion, a decrease of $2.5 billion from the prior year. The weaker results reflected a decrease in net revenue and a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower noninterest expense.
Net revenue was negative $302 million, a decrease of $3.5 billion from the prior year. Investment banking fees were $1.4 billion, down 17% from the prior year. Advisory fees were $579 million, down 10% from the prior year, reflecting decreased levels of activity, partially offset by improved market share. Debt underwriting fees were $464 million, down 1% from the prior year. Equity underwriting fees were $330 million, down 39% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was negative $1.7 billion, compared with $615 million in the prior year. The decrease was driven by $1.8 billion of net markdowns on leveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments; $1.1 billion of net markdowns on mortgage-related exposures; weak trading results in credit-related products; and losses of $367 million from the tightening of the firm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities. These results were largely offset by record performance in rates and currencies and strong performance in commodities and emerging markets. Equity Markets revenue was negative $94 million, down by $672 million from the prior year, reflecting weak trading results and losses of $354 million from the tightening of the firm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities, partially offset by strong client revenue across products, including prime services. Credit Portfolio revenue was $90 million, down $232 million from the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was $765 million, compared with $200 million in the prior year, predominantly reflecting a higher allowance driven by a weakening credit environment. Net charge-offs were $87 million, compared with net recoveries of $9 million in the prior year. The allowance for loan losses to average loans retained was 4.71% for the current quarter, an increase from 1.93% in the prior year.
Average loans retained were $73.1 billion, an increase of $4.2 billion, or 6%, from the prior year. Average fair-value and held-for-sale loans were $16.4 billion, down $8.6 billion, or 34%, from the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $2.7 billion, down 9% from the prior year, reflecting lower performance-based compensation expense, largely offset by additional expenses relating to the Bear Stearns merger.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES (RFS)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $624 million, a decrease of $107 million, or 15%, from the prior year, as a significant increase in the provision for credit losses was predominantly offset by positive MSR risk management results and the positive impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
Net revenue was $8.7 billion, an increase of $3.9 billion, or 81%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $4.7 billion, up $2.0 billion, or 75%, benefiting from the Washington Mutual transaction, wider deposit and loan spreads, and higher loan and deposit balances. Noninterest revenue was $4.0 billion, up $1.9 billion, or 88%, as positive MSR risk management results and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction were offset partially by a decline in mortgage production revenue.
The provision for credit losses was $3.6 billion, an increase of $2.5 billion from the prior year, as housing price declines continued to result in significant increases in estimated losses, particularly for high loan-to-value home equity and mortgage loans. The provision includes $1.6 billion in addition to the allowance for loan losses for the heritage Chase home equity and mortgage portfolios. Home equity net charge-offs were $770 million (2.15% net charge-off rate; 2.67% excluding purchased credit impaired loans), compared with $248 million (1.05% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Subprime mortgage net charge-offs were $319 million (5.64% net charge-off rate; 8.08% excluding purchased credit impaired loans), compared with $71 million (2.08% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Prime mortgage net charge-offs were $195 million (0.89% net charge-off rate; 1.20% excluding purchased credit impaired loans), compared with $17 million (0.22% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. The provision for credit losses was also affected by an increase in estimated losses for the auto and business banking loan portfolios.
Noninterest expense was $4.0 billion, an increase of $1.5 billion, or 59%, from the prior year, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage reinsurance losses, and increased servicing expense.
, which includes the results of all consumer banking and business banking activities, reported net income of $1.0 billion, up $479 million, or 85%, from the prior year. Net
Retail Banking
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
revenue was $4.5 billion, up to $2.0 billion, or 78%, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider deposit spreads, higher deposit-related fees, and higher deposit balances. The provision for credit losses was $268 million, compared with $50 million in the prior year, reflecting an increase in the allowance for loan losses for Business Banking loans due to higher estimated losses on the portfolio. Noninterest expense was $2.5 billion, up $965 million, or 62%, from the prior year, due to the Washington Mutual transaction.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
, which includes the results of all consumer loan origination, servicing, and portfolio management activities, reported a net loss of $416 million, compared with net income of $170 million in the prior year. Net revenue was $4.2 billion, up $1.9 billion, or 85%, driven by higher mortgage fees and related income, the Washington Mutual transaction, wider loan spreads and higher loan balances.
Consumer Lending
The increase in mortgage fees and related income was driven by higher net mortgage servicing revenue, partially offset by lower mortgage production revenue. Mortgage production revenue of $62 million was down $103 million, reflecting markdowns of the mortgage warehouse and an increase in reserves related to the repurchase of previously-sold loans. Net mortgage servicing revenue (which includes loan servicing revenue, MSR risk management results and other changes in fair value) was $1.9 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion, or 163%, from the prior year. Loan servicing revenue was $1.4 billion, an increase of $741 million on growth of 91% in third-party loans serviced. MSR risk management results were positive $1.4 billion, compared with positive $491 million in the prior year. Other changes in fair value of the MSR asset were negative $843 million, compared with negative $393 million in the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was $3.3 billion, compared with $1.0 billion in the prior year. The provision reflected weakness in the home equity and mortgage portfolios (see Retail Financial Services discussion of the provision for credit losses above for further detail).
Noninterest expense was $1.5 billion, up $540 million, or 55%, from the prior year, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage reinsurance losses and higher servicing expense due to increased delinquencies and defaults.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
CARD SERVICES (CS)
(a)
 
Discussion of Results:
Net loss was $371 million, a decline of $980 million from the prior year. The decrease was driven by a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher net revenue.
End-of-period managed loans were $190.3 billion, an increase of $33.3 billion, or 21%, from the prior year and up $3.8 billion, or 2%, from the prior quarter. Average managed loans were $187.3 billion, an increase of $35.6 billion, or 23%, from the prior year and up $29.7 billion, or 19%, from the prior quarter. The increase from the prior year in both end-of-period and average managed loans was predominantly due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Excluding Washington Mutual, end-of-period and average managed loans were $162.1 billion and $159.6 billion, respectively.
Managed net revenue was $4.9 billion, an increase of $937 million, or 24%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $4.3 billion, up $1.2 billion, or 38%, from the prior year, driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher average managed loan balances, and wider loan spreads. These benefits were offset partially by the effect of higher revenue reversals associated with higher charge-offs. Noninterest revenue was $590 million, a decrease of $244 million, or 29%, from the prior year, driven by lower securitization income as well as increased rewards expense and higher volume-driven payments to partners, partially offset by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
The managed provision for credit losses was $4.0 billion, an increase of $2.2 billion, or 122%, from the prior year, due to an increase of $1.1 billion in the allowance for loan losses and a higher level of charge-offs. The managed net charge-off rate for the quarter was 5.56%, up from 3.89% in the prior year and 5.00% in the prior quarter. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 4.97%, up from 3.48% in the prior year and 3.91% in the prior quarter. Excluding Washington Mutual, the managed net charge-off rate for the fourth quarter was 5.29% and the 30-day delinquency rate was 4.36%.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Noninterest expense was $1.5 billion, an increase of $266 million, or 22%, from the prior year, due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
COMMERCIAL BANKING (CB)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was a record $480 million, an increase of $192 million, or 67%, from the prior year, driven by higher net revenue including the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, offset partially by higher provision for credit losses.
Net revenue was $1.5 billion, an increase of $395 million, or 36%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $1.1 billion, up $345 million, or 46%, from the prior year, driven by the Washington Mutual transaction, double-digit growth in liability and loan balances, and a shift to higher spread liability products, partially offset by spread compression in the liability and loan portfolios. Noninterest revenue was $376 million, an increase of $50 million, or 15%, from the prior year, reflecting higher deposit and lending-related fees, partially offset by lower other income.
Revenue from Middle Market Banking was $796 million, an increase of $101 million, or 15%, from the prior year. Revenue from Commercial Term Lending, a new client segment encompassing multi-family and commercial mortgage loans, was $243 million. Revenue from Mid-Corporate Banking was $243 million, an increase of $4 million, or 2%. Revenue from Real Estate Banking was $131 million, an increase of $29 million, or 28%, due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
The provision for credit losses was $190 million, an increase of $85 million, or 81%, compared with the prior year. The current-quarter provision reflects a weakening credit environment. The allowance for loan losses to average loans retained was 2.41% for the current quarter, down from 2.66% in the prior year and up from 2.32% in the prior quarter, reflecting the changed mix of the loan portfolio as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction. Nonperforming loans were $1.0 billion, up $880 million from the prior year and up $182 million from the prior quarter, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and the effect across all business segments of a weakening credit environment. Net charge-offs were $118 million (0.40% net charge-off rate), compared with $33 million (0.21% net charge-off rate) in the prior year and $40 million (0.22% net charge-off rate) in the prior quarter.
Noninterest expense was $499 million, a decrease of $5 million, or 1%, from the prior year, due to lower performance-based compensation expense, largely offset by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES (TSS)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was a record $533 million, an increase of $111 million, or 26%, from the prior year, driven by higher net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.
Net revenue was a record $2.2 billion, an increase of $319 million, or 17%, from the prior year. Worldwide Securities Services net revenue was a record $1.3 billion, an increase of $150 million, or 14%, from the prior year. The growth was driven by higher liability balances, reflecting increased client deposit activity resulting from recent market conditions, and wider spreads in foreign exchange. These benefits were offset partially by the effects of market depreciation and lower securities lending balances. Treasury Services net revenue was a record $1.0 billion, an increase of $169 million, or 21%, reflecting higher liability balances and higher trade revenue. Liability balance revenue growth reflects increased client deposit activity, resulting from recent market conditions and organic growth, partially offset by spread compression. Trade revenue benefited from higher volumes and wider loan spreads. TSS firmwide net revenue, which includes Treasury Services net revenue recorded in other lines of business, grew to $3.1 billion, an increase of $454 million, or 17%. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to $1.8 billion, an increase of $304 million, or 20%.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
The provision for credit losses was $45 million, an increase of $41 million from prior year, reflecting a weakening credit environment.
Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion, an increase of $117 million, or 10%, from the prior year, reflecting higher expense related to business and volume growth as well as continued investment in new product platforms.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
ASSET MANAGEMENT (AM)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $255 million, a decline of $272 million, or 52%, from the prior year, due to lower net revenue offset partially by lower noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $1.7 billion, a decrease of $731 million, or 31%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $1.2 billion, a decline of $868 million, or 42%, due to the effect of lower markets, including the impact of lower market valuations of seed capital investments and lower performance fees; these effects were offset partially by the benefit of the Bear Stearns merger. Net interest income was $466 million, up $137 million, or 42%, from the prior year, predominantly due to wider deposit spreads and higher deposit and loan balances.
Private Bank revenue declined 3% to $630 million, as the effects of lower markets and lower performance fees were predominantly offset by increased deposit and loan balances. Private
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Wealth Management revenue declined 4% to $330 million due to lower assets under management. Institutional revenue declined 57% to $327 million due to lower performance fees and lower market valuations of principal investments, partially offset by net liquidity inflows. Retail revenue decreased by 59% to $265 million due to the effect of lower markets, including the impact of lower market valuations of seed capital investments and net equity outflows. Bear Stearns Brokerage contributed $106 million to revenue.
Assets under supervision were $1.5 trillion, a decrease of $76 billion, or 5%, from the prior year. Assets under management were $1.1 trillion, down $60 billion, or 5%, from the prior year. The decrease was due to the effect of lower markets and non-liquidity outflows, predominantly offset by liquidity product inflows across all segments and the addition of Bear Stearns assets under management. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit balances were $363 billion, down $16 billion due to the effect of lower markets on brokerage and custody balances, offset by the addition of Bear Stearns Brokerage.
The provision for credit losses was $32 million, compared with negative $1 million in the prior year, reflecting a weakening credit environment.
Noninterest expense of $1.2 billion decreased $346 million, or 22%, from the prior year due to lower performance-based compensation, partially offset by the effect of the Bear Stearns merger.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY
Discussion of Results:
Net income for Corporate/Private Equity was $1.5 billion, compared with net income of $270 million in the prior year. This segment includes the results of Private Equity and Corporate business segments, as well as merger-related items.
Net loss for Private Equity was $682 million, compared with net income of $356 million in the prior year. Net revenue was negative $1.1 billion, a decrease of $1.8 billion, reflecting Private Equity write-downs of $1.1 billion, compared with gains of $712 million in the prior year. Noninterest expense was negative $40 million, a decrease of $173 million from the prior year, reflecting lower compensation expense.
Net income for Corporate was $1.2 billion, compared with a net loss of $72 million in the prior year, and included an after-tax gain of $627 million on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech joint venture.
Net after-tax merger-related items included a $1.3 billion extraordinary gain, net costs of $60 million related to the Washington Mutual transaction, and net costs of $201 million related to the Bear Stearns merger.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
JPMORGAN CHASE (JPM)
(a)
 
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $702 million, a decrease of $2.3 billion, or 76%, from the prior year. The decline in earnings was driven by a higher provision for credit losses and increased noninterest expense.
Managed net revenue was $19.1 billion, an increase of $833 million, or 5%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $3.2 billion, down $6.2 billion, or 66%, due to lower principal transactions revenue, which reflected net markdowns on leveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments and mortgage-related exposures, and Private Equity write-downs. Partially offsetting these declines were the gain on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech joint venture and positive MSR risk management results. Net interest income was $15.9 billion, up $7.1 billion, or 80%, due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher trading-related net interest income, higher liability and loan balances, and wider loan and deposit spreads.
The managed provision for credit losses was $8.5 billion, up $5.4 billion, or 170%, from the prior year. The total consumer-managed provision for credit losses was $7.4 billion, compared with $2.9 billion in the prior year, reflecting increases in the allowance for credit losses related to home equity, mortgage and credit card loans, as well as higher net charge-offs. Consumer-managed net charge-offs were $4.3 billion, compared with $2.0 billion in the prior year, resulting in managed net charge-off rates of 3.61% and 2.22%, respectively. The wholesale provision for credit losses was $1.1 billion, compared with $308 million in the prior year, due to an increase in the allowance for credit losses reflecting the effect of a weakening credit environment. Wholesale net charge-offs were $217 million, compared with net charge-offs of $25 million, resulting in net charge-off rates of 0.33% and 0.05%, respectively. The firm had total nonperforming assets of $12.7 billion at December 31, 2008, up from the prior-year level of $3.9 billion.
Noninterest expense was $11.3 billion, up $535 million, or 5%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and additional operating costs relating to the Bear Stearns merger, partially offset by lower compensation expense.
  
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Notes:
1. In addition to analyzing the firm's results on a reported basis, management analyzes the firm's results and the results of the lines of business on a managed basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes the following adjustments: First, for Card Services and the firm, managed basis excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. The presentation of Card Services results on a managed basis assumes that credit card loans that have been securitized and sold in accordance with SFAS 140 still remain on the balance sheet and that the earnings on the securitized loans are classified in the same manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on the balance sheet. JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of managed basis to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial performance of the entire managed credit card portfolio. Operations are funded and decisions are made about allocating resources, such as employees and capital, based upon managed financial information. In addition, the same underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both loans on the balance sheet and securitized loans. Although securitizations result in the sale of credit card receivables to a trust, JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoing customer relationships, as the customers may continue to use their credit cards; accordingly, the customer's credit performance will affect both the securitized loans and the loans retained on the balance sheet. JPMorgan Chase believes managed-basis information is useful to investors, enabling them to understand both the credit risks associated with the loans reported on the balance sheet and the firm's retained interests in securitized loans. Second, managed revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the segments and the firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This methodology allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense. See page 8 of JPMorgan Chase's Earnings Release Financial Supplement (fourth quarter of 2008) for a reconciliation of JPMorgan Chase's income statement from a reported basis to a managed basis.
2. Pretax margin represents income before income tax expense divided by total net revenue, which is, in management's view, a comprehensive measure of pretax performance derived by measuring earnings after all costs are taken into consideration. It is, therefore, another basis that management uses to evaluate the performance of TSS and AM against the performance of competitors.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.2 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management, and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan, Chase, and WaMu brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
JPMorgan Chase will host a conference call today at 7:45 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review fourth-quarter financial results. The general public can access the call by dialing (866) 541-2724 or (877) 368-8360 in the U.S. and Canada; (706) 902-3714 for International participants. The live audio webcast and presentation slides will be available at the firm's website under Investor Relations, Investor Presentations.
www.jpmorganchase.com
A replay of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. on Thursday, January 15, through midnight, Friday, January 30, by telephone at (800) 642-1687 (U.S. and Canada) or (706) 634-7246 (International). The replay will also be available via webcast on under Investor Relations, Investor Presentations. Additional detailed financial, statistical and business-related information is included in a financial supplement. The earnings release and the financial supplement are available at: .
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.jpmorganchase.com
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in JPMorgan Chase's Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q
for the quarters ended September 30, 2008, June 30, 2008 and March 31, 2008, and its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, each of which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website (
www.jpmorganchase.com
), and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website. JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except per share, ratio and headcount data)
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page 1
 
Commencing October 1, 2008, JPMorgan Chase &Co. ("JPMC" or the "Firm") revised certain of its financial disclosures to reflect more closely the manner in which its business segments are now being managed. The revisions are reflected in the Firms' financial reports and disclosures commencing with its report of financial results for the fourth quarter of 2008.
In summary, the changes that have been made in financial reporting disclosure are as follows:
Page 2
 
Page 3
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except per share, ratio and headcount data)
 
Page 4
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. STATEMENTS OF INCOME (in millions, except per share and ratio data)
 
Page 5
 
 
Page 6
 
 
Page 7
 
The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). That presentation, which is referred to as "reported basis," provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's and the lines' of business results on a "managed" basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that assume credit card loans securitized by Card Services remain on the balance sheet and presents revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent ("FTE") basis. These adjustments do not have any impact on net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole. The impact of these adjustments are summarized below. For additional information about managed basis, please refer to the Glossary of Terms on page 38.
Page 8
 
 
Page 9
 
 
Page 10
 
 
Page 11
 
     
 
Page 12
 
 
Page 13
 
 
Page 14
 
 
Page 15
 
 
Page 16
 
 
Page 17
 
 
Page 18
 
 
Page 19
 
     
 
Page 20
 
     
 
Page 21
 
     
 
Page 22
 
 
Page 23
 
     
 
Page 24
 
     
TSS firmwide metrics include revenue recorded in the CB, Regional Banking and Asset Management ("AM") lines of business and excludes FX revenue recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity. In order to capture the firmwide impact of Treasury Services ("TS") and TSS products and revenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
 
Page 25
 
 
Page 26
 
 
Page 27
 
 
Page 28
 
 
Page 29
 
 
Page 30
 
 
Page 31
 
 
Page 32
 
 
Page 33
 
 
Page 34
 
 
Page 35
 
 
Page 36
 
 
Page 37
 
Automated Clearing House.
ACH:
Refers to total assets on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Average managed assets:
Represents the interest of third-party holders of debt/equity securities, or other obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase & Co. consolidates under FIN 46R. The underlying obligations of the VIEs consist of short-term borrowings, commercial paper and long-term debt. The related assets consist of trading assets, available- for-sale securities, loans and other assets.
Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs:
In accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bankruptcy, whichever is earlier.
Contractual credit card charge-off:
Includes Private Equity, Treasury and Corporate Other, which includes other centrally managed expense and discontinued operations.
Corporate/Private Equity:
Card Services' managed results excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. Through securitization, the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card receivables into securities, which are sold to investors. The credit card receivables are removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheets through the transfer of the receivables to a trust and the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investors to specific cash flows generated from the credit card receivables. The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests as seller's interests, which are recorded in loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. A gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in other income. Securitization also affects the Firm's Consolidated Statements of Income as the aggregate amount of interest income, certain fee revenue and recoveries that is in excess of the aggregate amount of interest paid to the investors, gross credit losses and other trust expense related to the securitized receivables are reclassified into credit card income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Credit card securitizations:
FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51."
FIN 46(R):
An indication of credit quality based upon JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s internal risk assessment system. "Investment-grade" generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a "BBB-"/"Baa3" or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
Investment-grade:
A non-GAAP presentation of financial results that includes reclassifications related to credit card securitizations and to present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure at the segment level because it believes this provides information to enable investors to understand the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
Managed basis:
Refers to credit card receivables on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Managed credit card receivables:
A measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market value is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan Chase & Co. and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for the Firm. When the mark-to-market value is negative, JPMorgan Chase & Co. owes the counterparty. In this situation, the Firm does not have repayment risk.
Mark-to-market exposure:
Reflects costs associated with the Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns mergers in 2008, costs associated with The Bank of New York, Inc. transaction ("The Bank of New York") in 2007, and costs associated with the 2004 merger with Bank One Corporation.
Merger costs:
Includes changes in MSR asset fair value due to inputs or assumptions in model and derivative valuation adjustments and other.
MSR risk management revenue:
The average rate for interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
Not meaningful.
NM:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.
Overhead ratio:
Realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities (including physical commodities inventories that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value) and changes in fair value associated with financial instruments held by the Investment Bank for which the SFAS 159 fair value option was elected. Principal transactions revenue also include private equity gains and losses.
Principal transactions (revenue):
Financial statements prepared under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations, but excludes the impact of taxable equivalent adjustments.
Reported basis:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS:
"Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125."
SFAS 140:
"Business Combinations."
SFAS 141:
"Fair Value Measurements."
SFAS 157:
"The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115."
SFAS 159:
"Accounting for Certain Loans of Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer."
SOP 03-3:
Total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to fully taxable securities and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense.
Taxable-equivalent basis:
Financial statements and information that have not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent certified public accountant to express an opinion.
Unaudited:
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
U.S. GAAP:
A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Value-at-risk ("VAR"):
Page 38
 
Investment Banking
IB'S REVENUE COMPRISES THE FOLLOWING:
include advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.
1. Investment banking fees
include client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets, including foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and commodities markets.
2. Fixed income markets
include client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives and convertibles.
3. Equities markets
includes net interest income, fees and loan sale activity, as well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, for the IB's credit portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the Firm's lending and derivative activities, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment, which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty.
4. Credit portfolio revenue
Retail Financial Services
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN RETAIL BANKING:
Retail branch office personnel who acquire, retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assessing customer needs and recommending and selling appropriate banking products and services.
1. Personal bankers 
Retail branch office personnel who specialize in the marketing of a single product, including mortgages, investments, and business banking, by partnering with the personal bankers.
2. Sales specialists 
CONSUMER LENDING REVENUE COMPRISES THE FOLLOWING:
includes net gains or losses on originations and sales of prime and subprime mortgage loans and other production-related fees.
1. Production revenue
2. Net mortgage servicing revenue
include changes in the MSR asset fair value due to inputs or assumptions and derivative valuation adjustments and other.
3. MSR risk management results
Retail Financial Services (continued)
CONSUMER LENDING'S ORIGINATION CHANNELS COMPRISE THE FOLLOWING:
Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.
1. Retail 
A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for and do not underwrite the loans.
2. Wholesale 
Correspondents are banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.
3. Correspondent 
These transactions occur when mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis, and exclude purchased bulk servicing transactions. These transactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportunities in the servicing portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.
4. Correspondent negotiated transactions ("CNT") 
Card Services
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN CARD SERVICES:
Represents the dollar amount of cardmember purchases, balance transfers and cash advance activity.
1. Charge volume 
Includes originations, purchases and sales.
2. Net accounts opened 
The termination of Chase Paymentech Solutions, a global payments and merchant acquiring joint venture between JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corporation, was completed on November 1st, 2008. JPMorgan Chase retained approximately 51% of the business under the Chase Paymentech name.
3. Merchant acquiring business 
Represents the dollar amount of transactions processed for merchants.
4. Bank card volume 
Represents the number of transactions and authorizations processed for merchants.
5. Total transactions 
Page 39
 
Commercial Banking
COMMERCIAL BANKING REVENUE COMPRISES THE FOLLOWING:
includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are primarily provided on a basis secured by receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets. Products include term loans, revolving lines of credit, bridge financing, asset-based structures and leases.
1. Lending
includes a broad range of products and services enabling clients to transfer, invest and manage the receipt and disbursement of funds, while providing the related information reporting. These products and services include U.S. dollar and multi-currency clearing, ACH, lockbox, disbursement and reconciliation services, check deposits, other check and currency-related services, trade finance and logistics solutions, commercial card, and deposit products, sweeps and money market mutual funds.
2. Treasury services
products provide clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives, as well as balance sheet and risk management tools through loan syndications, investment-grade debt, asset-backed securities, private placements, high-yield bonds, equity underwriting, advisory, interest rate derivatives, foreign exchange hedges and securities sales.
3. Investment banking
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN COMMERCIAL BANKING:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements.
1. Liability balances
Represents total revenue related to investment banking products sold to CB clients.
2. IB revenue, gross 
Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services include certain TSS product revenue and liability balances reported in other lines of business related to customers who are also customers of those other lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary, in management's view, in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
firmwide metrics
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements.
Liability balances
Asset Management
Represent assets actively managed by Asset Management on behalf of institutional, private banking, retail, private client services and Bear Stearns brokerage clients. Excludes assets managed by American Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 43% ownership interest as of September 30, 2008.
Assets under management:
Represents assets under management as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Assets under supervision:
The following types of assets constitute alternative investments  hedge funds, currency, real estate and private equity.
Alternative assets:
AM's CLIENT SEGMENTS COMPRISE THE FOLLOWING:
brings comprehensive global investment services  including asset management, pension analytics, asset/liability management and active risk budgeting strategies  to corporate and public institutions, endowments, foundations, not-for-profit organizations and governments worldwide.
1. Institutional
addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services.
2. The Private Bank
provides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning and administration through third-party and direct distribution of a full range of investment vehicles.
3. Retail
offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business owners in the United States comprehensive wealth management solutions, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, and specialty-wealth advisory services.
4. Private Wealth Management
provides investment advice and wealth management services to high-net-worth individuals, money managers, and small corporations.
5. Bear Stearns Brokerage
Page 40


