FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20090716064753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 16, 2009, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") reported 2009 second quarter net income of $2.7 billion, or $0.28 per share, compared with net income of $2.0 billion, or $0.53 per share, for the second quarter of 2008. A copy of the 2009 second quarter earnings release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and a copy of the earnings release financial supplement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Each of the Exhibits provided with this Form 8-K shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
This current report on Form 8-K (including the Exhibits hereto) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Firm's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, each of which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website (
www.jpmorganchase.com
) and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (
www.sec.gov
). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 16, 2009
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 12.1
 

EXHIBIT 12.2
 

Exhibit 99.1
News release: IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) today reported second-quarter 2009 net income of $2.7 billion, an increase of 36% compared with net income of $2.0 billion in the second quarter of 2008. Earnings per share were $0.28, compared with $0.53 in the second quarter of 2008. Current-quarter earnings per share reflected a one-time, non-cash reduction in net income applicable to common stockholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.27 per share, resulting from repayment of TARP preferred capital.
New York, July 16, 2009
Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer commented on the results: "We are pleased that, despite a continued difficult economic environment, we were able to report $2.7 billion in earnings and record revenue of almost $28 billion. Of particular note, the Investment Bank reported record overall revenue for the first half of the year, which included record fees and Fixed Income Markets revenue for this quarter. In addition, Commercial Banking, Asset Management,
 
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Treasury & Securities Services and Retail Banking each delivered another quarter of solid performance. These results were negatively affected by the continued high levels of credit costs in Consumer Lending and Card Services, which we expect will remain elevated for the foreseeable future."
Regarding balance sheet strength, Dimon added: "Even after further strengthening our credit reserves by $2 billion to $30 billion and repaying the $25 billion of TARP capital, the firm ended the quarter with a very strong Tier 1 Capital ratio of 9.7% and a Tier 1 Common ratio of 7.7%. With these additions to reserves, we now have an extremely high loan loss coverage ratio of 5%".
Dimon further remarked: "Throughout this crisis, we have remained committed to doing our part to help bring stability to the communities in which we operate and to the financial system overall. During the quarter, we maintained our efforts to support economic recovery and to help keep people in their homes. We continued to lend, extending approximately $150 billion in new credit to consumer and corporate customers. We approved 138,000 trial mortgage modifications, bringing total foreclosures prevented since 2007 to 565,000  a number we expect to continue to grow."
Commenting on the second half of 2009, Dimon concluded: "While we do not know if the economy will deteriorate further, we feel confident that, with our strong capital and reserve levels and significant earnings power, we can continue to reinvest in our businesses and do well for our clients, communities and shareholders over the long term."
In the discussion below of the business segments and of JPMorgan Chase as a firm, information is presented on a managed basis. Managed basis starts with GAAP results and includes the following adjustments: for Card Services and the firm as a whole, the impact of credit card securitizations is excluded; and for each line of business and the firm as a whole, net revenue is shown on a tax-equivalent basis. For more information about managed basis, as well as other non-GAAP financial measures used by management to evaluate the performance of each line of business, see page 13.
The following discussion compares the second quarter of 2009 with the second quarter of 2008 unless otherwise noted.
INVESTMENT BANK (IB)
Net income was $1.5 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion from the prior year. The results reflected higher net revenue and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by a higher provision for credit losses.
Discussion of Results:
Net revenue was $7.3 billion, an increase of $1.8 billion from the prior year. Investment banking fees were up 29% to a record $2.2 billion and comprised the following: advisory fees, up 6% to $393 million; equity underwriting fees, up by $561 million to a record $1.1 billion; and debt
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
underwriting fees, down 10% to $743 million. Fixed Income Markets revenue was a record $4.9 billion, up by $2.6 billion from the prior year, driven by strong results across all products, as well as the absence of markdowns related to leveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments and mortgage-related exposure. The current period had modest gains on those exposures, compared with losses totaling $1.1 billion in the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was offset partially by losses of $773 million from the tightening of the firm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities. Equity Markets revenue was $708 million, down by $371 million, or 34%, reflecting weak trading results and losses of $326 million from the tightening of the firm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities, offset by strong client revenue, particularly in prime services. Credit Portfolio revenue was a loss of $575 million, down by $914 million, reflecting mark-to-market losses on hedges of retained loans, partially offset by the net impact of credit spreads on derivative assets and liabilities and net interest income on loans.
The provision for credit losses was $871 million, compared with $398 million in the prior year, due to higher charge-offs, as well as a higher allowance reflecting continued deterioration in the credit environment. Net charge-offs were $433 million, while the increase to the allowance for loan losses was $438 million. The resulting allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 7.91%, compared with 3.44% in the prior year. Nonperforming loans were $3.5 billion, up by $3.2 billion from the prior year and $1.7 billion from the prior quarter.
Noninterest expense was $4.1 billion, compared with $4.7 billion in the prior year.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES (RFS)
Net income was $15 million, a decrease of $488 million, or 97%, from the prior year. A higher provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense were offset partially by higher net revenue, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Compared with the prior quarter, net income decreased by $459 million, or 97%, reflecting a decline in MSR risk management results, narrower loan spreads and lower loan balances; these effects were offset
Discussion of Results:
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
partially by higher deposit- related fees, efficiencies related to the Washington Mutual transaction and wider deposit spreads.
Net revenue was $8.0 billion, an increase of $2.9 billion, or 56%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $5.0 billion, up by $1.9 billion, or 60%, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider loan spreads, wider deposit spreads and higher deposit balances offset partially by lower loan balances in the heritage Chase portfolio. Noninterest revenue was $2.9 billion, up by $980 million, or 50%, driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher deposit-related fees.
The provision for credit losses was $3.8 billion, an increase of $2.3 billion from the prior year. Weak economic conditions and housing price declines continued to drive higher estimated losses for the home equity and mortgage loan portfolios. The provision included a $1.2 billion addition to the allowance for loan losses, compared with an addition of $600 million in the prior year and $1.7 billion in the prior quarter. Home equity net charge-offs were $1.3 billion (4.61% net charge-off rate), compared with $511 million (2.16% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Subprime mortgage net charge-offs were $410 million (11.50% net charge-off rate), compared with $192 million (4.98% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Prime mortgage net charge-offs were $481 million (3.07% net charge-off rate), compared with $104 million (1.08% net charge-off rate) in the prior year.
2
2
2
Noninterest expense was $4.1 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion, or 52% reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher servicing expense and higher FDIC insurance premiums.
reported net income of $970 million, up by $296 million, or 44%, from the prior year. Compared with the prior quarter, net income increased by $107 million, or 12%, due to higher deposit-related fees, wider deposit spreads, and efficiencies related to the Washington Mutual transaction.
Retail Banking
Net revenue was $4.5 billion, up by $1.8 billion, or 65% reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider deposit spreads, higher deposit balances and higher deposit-related fees.
The provision for credit losses was $361 million, compared with $62 million in the prior year, reflecting higher estimated losses and an increase in the allowance for loan losses for Business Banking loans.
Noninterest expense was $2.6 billion, up by $1.0 billion, or 64% due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher FDIC insurance premiums.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
reported a net loss of $955 million, compared with a net loss of $171 million in the prior year and $389 million in the prior quarter. Compared with the prior quarter, results reflected a decline in MSR risk management results, narrower loan spreads, lower loan balances and an increase in reserves for the repurchase of previously-sold loans, partially offset by a lower provision for credit losses.
Consumer Lending
Net revenue was $3.4 billion, up by $1.1 billion, or 45%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and wider loan spreads, largely offset by lower loan balances in the heritage Chase portfolio. Mortgage fees and related income increased due to higher net mortgage servicing revenue, partially offset by a decline in mortgage production revenue. Mortgage production revenue was $284 million, down $110 million from the prior year, as an increase in reserves for the repurchase of previously-sold loans and markdowns on the mortgage warehouse were offset partially by wider margins on new originations. Net mortgage servicing revenue (which includes loan servicing revenue, other changes in fair value and MSR risk management results) was $523 million, an increase of $221 million from the prior year. Loan servicing revenue, net of other changes in fair value of the MSR asset, was up $191 million, reflecting a 70% growth in third-party loans serviced. MSR risk management results were $81 million, compared with $51 million in the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion, compared with $1.5 billion in the prior year, reflecting weakness in the home equity, mortgage and student loan portfolios (see Retail Financial Services discussion of the provision for credit losses, above, for further detail).
Noninterest expense was $1.5 billion, up by $399 million, or 36%, from the prior year, reflecting higher servicing expense due to increased delinquencies and defaults and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
CARD SERVICES (CS)
(a)
 
Net loss was $672 million, a decline of $922 million from the prior year. The decrease was driven by a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher net revenue.
Discussion of Results:
End-of-period managed loans were $171.5 billion, an increase of $16.1 billion, or 10%, from the prior year and a decrease of $4.6 billion, or 3%, from the prior quarter. Average managed loans were $174.1 billion, an increase of $21.3 billion, or 14%, from the prior year and a decrease of $9.3 billion, or 5%, from the prior quarter. The increases from the prior year in both end-of-period and average managed loans were predominantly due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partially offset by lower charge volume and a higher level of charge-offs. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, end-of-period and average managed loans were $148.4 billion and $149.7 billion, respectively.
Managed net revenue was $4.9 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion, or 29%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $4.3 billion, up by $1.3 billion, or 43%, from the prior year, driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and wider loan spreads. These benefits were offset partially by higher revenue reversals associated with higher charge-offs and a decreased level of fees. Noninterest revenue was $557 million, a decrease of $207 million, or 27%, from the prior year. The decline was driven by an increase in the credit enhancement for securitization trusts combined with lower securitization income, partially offset by higher merchant servicing revenue related to the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture.
The managed provision for credit losses was $4.6 billion, an increase of $2.4 billion from the prior year, reflecting a higher level of charge-offs due to continued deterioration in the credit environment. The managed net charge-off rate for the quarter was 10.03%, up from 4.98% in the prior year and 7.72% in the prior quarter. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 5.86%, up from 3.46% in the prior year and down from 6.16% in the prior quarter, reflecting normal seasonal patterning. Excluding Washington Mutual, the managed net charge-off rate for the second quarter was 8.97% and the 30-day delinquency rate was 5.27%.
Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion, an increase of $148 million, or 12%, from the prior year, due to the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
COMMERCIAL BANKING (CB)
Net income was $368 million, an increase of $13 million, or 4%, from the prior year. Higher net revenue, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, was predominantly offset by a higher provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense.
Discussion of Results:
Net revenue was $1.5 billion, an increase of $347 million, or 31%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $995 million, up by $272 million, or 38%, driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Excluding Washington Mutual, net interest income was flat compared with the prior year, as wider loan spreads, a shift to higher-spread liability products and overall growth in liability balances were offset predominantly by spread compression on liability products and lower loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $458 million, an increase of $75 million, or 20%, reflecting the second straight quarter of record levels of lending- and deposit-related fees.
Revenue from Middle Market Banking was $772 million, an increase of $64 million, or 9%, from the prior year. Revenue from Commercial Term Lending was $224 million, a decrease of $4 million, or 2%, from the prior quarter. Record revenue from Mid-Corporate Banking was $305 million, an increase of $70 million, or 30%, from the prior year. Revenue from Real Estate Banking was $120 million, an increase of $26 million, or 28%, from the prior year, due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.
The provision for credit losses was $312 million, compared with $47 million in the prior year, reflecting continued deterioration in the credit environment. The allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 2.87%, up from 2.59% in the prior year and 2.65% in the prior quarter. Nonperforming loans were $2.1 billion, up by $1.6 billion from the prior year, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher levels of such loans in each business segment. Compared with the prior quarter, nonperforming loans were up by $580 million, driven
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
by continued deterioration in the credit environment across all business segments. Net charge-offs were $181 million (0.67% net charge-off rate), compared with $49 million (0.28% net charge-off rate) in the prior year and $134 million (0.48% net charge-off rate) in the prior quarter.
Noninterest expense was $535 million, an increase of $59 million, or 12%, from the prior year, due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher FDIC insurance premiums offset partially by lower headcount-related expense.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES (TSS)
Net income was $379 million, a decrease of $46 million, or 11%, from the prior year, driven by lower net revenue offset partially by lower noninterest expense. Compared with the prior quarter, net income increased by $71 million, or 23%, reflecting seasonal activity in securities lending and depositary receipts as well as the effect of market appreciation on assets under custody.
Discussion of Results:
Net revenue was $1.9 billion, a decrease of $119 million, or 6%, from the prior year. Worldwide Securities Services net revenue was $966 million, a decrease of $148 million, or 13%, from the prior year. The decrease was driven by the effect of market depreciation on assets under custody and lower securities lending balances, primarily as a result of declines in asset valuations and demand. Treasury Services net revenue was $934 million, an increase of $29 million, or 3%, reflecting growth across cash management products and higher trade revenue driven by wider spreads, partially offset by spread compression on deposit products. TSS firmwide net revenue, which includes net revenue recorded in other lines of business, was $2.6 billion, a decrease of $79 million, or 3%, compared with the prior year, primarily due to declines in Worldwide Securities Services. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to $1.7 billion, an increase of $69 million, or 4%, from the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $5 million, compared with an expense of $7 million in the prior year.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion, a decrease of $29 million, reflecting lower headcount-related expense, partially offset by higher FDIC insurance premiums.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
ASSET MANAGEMENT (AM)
Net income was $352 million, a decrease of $43 million, or 11%, from the prior year, due to lower net revenue and higher provision for credit losses offset partially by lower noninterest expense. Compared with the prior quarter, net income increased by $128 million, or 57%, driven by higher valuations of seed capital investments, higher brokerage fees and the effect of improved market levels.
Discussion of Results:
Net revenue was $2.0 billion, a decrease of $82 million, or 4%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $1.6 billion, a decrease of $135 million, or 8%, due to the effect of lower market levels and lower placement fees; these effects were offset partially by higher valuations of seed capital investments. Net interest income was $414 million, up by $53 million, or 15%, from the prior year, predominantly due to wider loan and deposit spreads and higher deposit balances.
Private Bank revenue decreased by 10% to $640 million due to the effect of lower market levels and lower placement fees, largely offset by wider loan and deposit spreads. Institutional revenue increased by 3% to $487 million due to higher valuations of seed capital investments, largely offset by the effect of lower market levels. Retail revenue decreased by 16% to $411 million due to the effect of lower market levels and net equity outflows, partially offset by higher valuations of seed capital investments. Private Wealth Management revenue decreased by 6% to $334 million due to the effect of lower market levels and narrower deposit spreads. Bear Stearns Private Client Services contributed $110 million to revenue.
Assets under supervision were $1.5 trillion, a decrease of $68 billion, or 4%, from the prior year. Assets under management were $1.2 trillion, a decrease of $14 billion, or 1%, from the prior year. The decreases were due to the effect of lower market levels and outflows from non-liquidity products, predominantly offset by liquidity product inflows. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit balances were $372 billion, down $54 billion, due to the effect of lower market levels on brokerage and custody balances, partially offset by brokerage inflows in the Private Bank.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
The provision for credit losses was $59 million, an increase of $42 million from the prior year, reflecting continued deterioration in the credit environment.
Noninterest expense was $1.4 billion, a decrease of $46 million, or 3%, from the prior year due to lower performance-based compensation and lower headcount-related expense, largely offset by the impact of the Bear Stearns merger and higher FDIC insurance premiums.
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY
(a)
 
Net income was $808 million, compared with a net loss of $319 million in the prior year.
Discussion of Results:
Private Equity reported a net loss of $27 million, compared with net income of $99 million in the prior year. Net revenue was negative $1 million, a decrease of $198 million, reflecting Private Equity losses of $20 million, compared with gains of $220 million in the prior year. Noninterest expense was $42 million, a decrease of $2 million.
Net income for Corporate was $993 million, compared with net income of $122 million in the prior year. These results reflect higher levels of trading and investment income in the investment securities portfolio and a gain of $150 million (after tax) from the sale of MasterCard shares, partially offset by a $419 million (after tax) FDIC special assessment.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
JPMORGAN CHASE (JPM)
(a)
 
Net income was $2.7 billion, an increase of $718 million, or 36%, from the prior year. The increase in earnings was driven by higher net revenue, predominantly offset by a higher provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense.
Discussion of Results:
Managed net revenue was $27.7 billion, an increase of $8.0 billion, or 41%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $13.0 billion, up by $3.5 billion, or 37%. The increase was driven by higher principal transactions, higher lending- and deposit-related fees, and record Investment Banking fees; these were offset partially by the effect of lower market levels on fees and commission revenue. Net interest income was $14.7 billion, up by $4.5 billion, or 45%, due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider loan spreads and higher investment- and trading-related net interest income.
The managed provision for credit losses was $9.7 billion, up by $5.4 billion, from the prior year. The total consumer-managed provision for credit losses was $8.5 billion, compared with $3.8 billion in the prior year, reflecting higher net charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for credit losses, largely related to home lending. Consumer-managed net charge-offs were $7.0 billion, compared with $2.9 billion in the prior year, resulting in managed net charge-off rates of 6.18% and 3.08%, respectively. The wholesale provision for credit losses was $1.2 billion, compared with $505 million in the prior year, reflecting an increase in the allowance for credit losses, largely in the Investment Bank. Wholesale net charge-offs were $679 million, compared with net charge-offs of $41 million in the prior year, resulting in net charge-off rates of 1.19% and 0.08%, respectively. The firm's nonperforming assets totaled $17.5 billion at June 30, 2009, up from the prior-year level of $6.2 billion.
2
Noninterest expense was $13.5 billion, up by $1.3 billion, or 11%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, a $675 million (pretax) FDIC special assessment and higher FDIC insurance premiums.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
     
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
1. Notes on non-GAAP financial measures:
a. In addition to analyzing the firm's results on a reported basis, management analyzes the firm's results and the results of the lines of business on a managed basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes the following adjustments.
First, for Card Services and the firm, managed basis excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. The presentation of Card Services results on a managed basis assumes that credit card loans that have been securitized and sold in accordance with SFAS 140 still remain on the balance sheet and that the earnings on the securitized loans are classified in the same manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on the balance sheet. JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of managed basis to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial performance of the entire managed credit card portfolio. Operations are funded and decisions are made about allocating resources, such as employees and capital, based on managed financial information. In addition, the same underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both loans on the balance sheet and securitized loans. Although securitizations result in the sale of credit card receivables to a trust, JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoing customer relationships, as the customers may continue to use their credit cards; accordingly, the customer's credit performance will affect both the securitized loans and the loans retained on the balance sheet. JPMorgan Chase believes managed-basis information is useful to investors, enabling them to understand both the credit risks associated with the loans reported on the balance sheet and the firm's retained interests in securitized loans.
Second, managed revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the segments and the firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This methodology allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense.
See page 6 of JPMorgan Chase's Earnings Release Financial Supplement (second quarter 2009) for a reconciliation of JPMorgan Chase's income statement from a reported basis to a managed basis.
b. Tier 1 Common Capital ("Tier 1 Common") is calculated, for all purposes, as Tier 1 Capital less qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities, and qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries.
c. Pretax margin represents income before income tax expense divided by total net revenue, which is, in management's view, a comprehensive measure of pretax performance derived by measuring earnings after all costs are taken into consideration. It is, therefore, another basis that management uses to evaluate the performance of TSS and AM against the performance of their respective competitors.
Allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans excludes purchased credit-impaired loans and loans from the Washington Mutual Master Trust, which were consolidated on the Firm's balance sheet at fair value during the second quarter of 2009. No allowance for loan losses was recorded for these loans as of June 30, 2009.
2. Coverage Ratio:
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.0 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan, Chase, and WaMu brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
JPMorgan Chase will host a conference call today at 8:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review second-quarter financial results. The general public can access the call by dialing (866) 541-2724, or (877) 368-8360 in the U.S. and Canada and (706) 634-7246 for International participants. The live audio webcast and presentation slides will be available at the firm's website, , under Investor Relations, Investor Presentations.
www.jpmorganchase.com
A replay of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. on Thursday, July 16, through midnight, Friday, July 31, by telephone at (800) 642-1687 (U.S. and Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International); use Conference ID 13446051. The replay will also be available via webcast on under Investor Relations, Investor Presentations. Additional detailed financial, statistical and business-related information is included in a financial supplement. The earnings release and the financial supplement are available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.jpmorganchase.com
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in JPMorgan Chase's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2008, each of which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website (
www.jpmorganchase.com
) and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (
www.sec.gov
). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page 1
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except per share, ratio and headcount data)
 
Page 2
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. STATEMENTS OF INCOME (in millions, except per share and ratio data)
 
Page 3
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions)
 
Page 4
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CONDENSED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND ANNUALIZED YIELDS (in millions, except rates)
 
Page 5
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RECONCILIATION FROM REPORTED TO MANAGED SUMMARY (in millions)
The Firm prepares its consolidated financial statements using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). That presentation, which is referred to as "reported basis," provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's results and the results of lines of business on a "managed" basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that assume credit card loans securitized by Card Services remain on the balance sheet and presents revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent ("FTE") basis. These adjustments do not have any impact on net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole. The impact of these adjustments are summarized below. For additional information about managed basis, please refer to the Glossary of Terms on page 37.
Page 6
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. LINE OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  MANAGED BASIS (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 7
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. INVESTMENT BANK FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 8
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. INVESTMENT BANK FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except headcount and ratio data)
 
Page 9
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. INVESTMENT BANK FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio and rankings data)
 
Page 10
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio and headcount data)
 
Page 11
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 12
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
 
Page 13
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
 
Page 14
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
 
Page 15
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in billions, except where otherwise noted)
 
Page 16
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CARD SERVICES  MANAGED BASIS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
 
Page 17
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CARD SERVICES  MANAGED BASIS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except headcount and ratio data)
 
Page 18
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CARD RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED AND MANAGED DATA (in millions)
 
Page 19
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. COMMERCIAL BANKING FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 20
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. COMMERCIAL BANKING FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio and headcount data)
 
Page 21
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except headcount and ratio data)
 
Page 22
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data and where otherwise noted)
TSS firmwide metrics include revenue recorded in the CB, Retail Banking and Asset Management ("AM") lines of business and excludes FX revenue recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity. In order to capture the firmwide impact of Treasury Services ("TS") and TSS products and revenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
 
Page 23
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. ASSET MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except ratio, ranking and headcount data)
 
Page 24
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. ASSET MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in billions)
 
Page 25
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. ASSET MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in billions)
 
Page 26
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except headcount data)
 
Page 27
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 28
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION (in millions)
 
Page 29
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 30
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 31
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION, CONTINUED (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 32
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION, CONTINUED (in millions)
 
Page 33
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. MARKET RISK-RELATED INFORMATION (in millions)
 
Page 34
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. CAPITAL, INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND DEPOSITS (in millions, except ratio data)
 
Page 35
 
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. PER SHARE-RELATED INFORMATION (in millions, except per share and ratio data)
 
Page 36
 
Automated Clearing House.
ACH:
Refers to total assets on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Average managed assets:
Represents the interest of third-party holders of debt/equity securities, or other obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates under FIN 46R. The underlying obligations of the VIEs consist of short-term borrowings, commercial paper and long-term debt. The related assets consist of trading assets, available-for-sale securities, loans and other assets.
Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs:
In accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bankruptcy, whichever is earlier.
Contractual credit card charge-off:
Includes Private Equity, Treasury and Corporate Other, which includes other centrally managed expense and discontinued operations.
Corporate/Private Equity:
Card Services' managed results excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. Through securitization, the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card receivables into securities, which are sold to investors. The credit card receivables are removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheets through the transfer of the receivables to a trust and the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investors to specific cash flows generated from the credit card receivables. The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests as seller's interests, which are recorded in loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. A gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in other income. Securitization also affects the Firm's Consolidated Statements of Income as the aggregate amount of interest income, certain fee revenue and recoveries that is in excess of the aggregate amount of interest paid to the investors, gross credit losses and other trust expense related to the securitized receivables are reclassified into credit card income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Credit card securitizations:
Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FASB:
FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51."
FIN 46(R):
FASB Staff Position No. EITF 03-6-1 "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities."
FSP EITF 03-6-1:
Represent an ownership interest in cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables transferred by a third-party seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity, generally a trust.
Interests in purchased receivables:
An indication of credit quality based upon JPMorgan Chase's internal risk assessment system. "Investment-grade" generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a "BBB-"/"Baa3" or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
Investment-grade:
A non-GAAP presentation of financial results that includes reclassifications related to credit card securitizations and to present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure at the segment level because it believes this provides information to enable investors to understand the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
Managed basis:
Refers to credit card receivables on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Managed credit card receivables:
A measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market value is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan Chase and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for the Firm. When the mark-to-market value is negative, JPMorgan Chase owes the counterparty. In this situation, the Firm does not have repayment risk.
Mark-to-market exposure:
Reflects costs associated with the Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns mergers in 2008.
Merger costs:
Includes changes in MSR asset fair value due to inputs or assumptions in model and derivative valuation adjustments and other.
MSR risk management revenue:
The average rate for interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
Not meaningful.
NM:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.
Overhead ratio:
Realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities (including physical commodities inventories that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value) and changes in fair value associated with financial instruments held by the Investment Bank for which the SFAS 159 fair value option was elected. Principal transactions revenue also include private equity gains and losses.
Principal transactions (revenue):
Financial statements prepared under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations, but excludes the impact of taxable equivalent adjustments.
Reported basis:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS:
"Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125."
SFAS 140:
"Business Combinations."
SFAS 141:
"Accounting for Certain Loans of Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer."
SOP 03-3:
Total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to fully taxable securities and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense.
Taxable-equivalent basis:
Financial statements and information that have not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent certified public accountant to express an opinion.
Unaudited:
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
U.S. GAAP:
A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Value-at-risk:
Page 37
 
Investment Banking
IB'S REVENUE COMPRISES THE FOLLOWING:
include advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.
1. Investment banking fees
include client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets, including foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and commodities markets.
2. Fixed income markets
include client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives and convertibles.
3. Equities markets
includes net interest income, fees and loan sale activity, as well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, for the IB's credit portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the Firm's lending and derivative activities, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment, which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty.
4. Credit portfolio revenue
Retail Financial Services
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN RETAIL BANKING:
Retail branch office personnel who acquire, retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assessing customer needs and recommending and selling appropriate banking products and services.
1. Personal bankers 
Retail branch office personnel who specialize in the marketing of a single product, including mortgages, investments, and business banking, by partnering with the personal bankers.
2. Sales specialists 
MORTGAGE FEES AND RELATED INCOME COMPRISE THE FOLLOWING:
includes net gains or losses on originations and sales of prime and subprime mortgage loans and other production-related fees.
1. Production revenue
2. Net mortgage servicing revenue
include changes in the MSR asset fair value due to inputs or assumptions and derivative valuation adjustments and other.
3. MSR risk management results
Retail Financial Services (continued)
MORTGAGE ORIGINATION CHANNELS COMPRISE THE FOLLOWING:
Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.
1. Retail 
A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for and do not underwrite the loans.
2. Wholesale 
Correspondents are banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.
3. Correspondent 
These transactions occur when mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis, and exclude purchased bulk servicing transactions. These transactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportunities in the servicing portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.
4. Correspondent negotiated transactions ("CNT") 
Card Services
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN CARD SERVICES:
Represents the dollar amount of cardmember purchases, balance transfers and cash advance activity.
1. Charge volume 
- Includes originations, purchases and sales.
2. Net accounts opened
- Represents a business that processes bank card transactions for merchants.
3. Merchant acquiring business
- Represents the dollar amount of transactions processed for merchants.
4. Bank card volume
- Represents the number of transactions and authorizations processed for merchants.
5. Total transactions
Page 38
 
Commercial Banking
COMMERCIAL BANKING REVENUE COMPRISES THE FOLLOWING:
includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are primarily provided on a basis secured by receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets. Products include term loans, revolving lines of credit, bridge financing, asset-based structures and leases.
1. Lending
2. includes a broad range of products and services enabling clients to transfer, invest and manage the receipt and disbursement of funds, while providing the related information reporting. These products and services include U.S. dollar and multi-currency clearing, ACH, lockbox, disbursement and reconciliation services, check deposits, other check and currency-related services, trade finance and logistics solutions, commercial card, and deposit products, sweeps and money market mutual funds.
Treasury services
3. products provide clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives, as well as balance sheet and risk management tools through loan syndications, investment-grade debt, asset-backed securities, private placements, high-yield bonds, equity underwriting, advisory, interest rate derivatives, foreign exchange hedges and securities sales.
Investment banking
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN COMMERCIAL BANKING:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements.
1. Liability balances
Represents total revenue related to investment banking products sold to CB clients.
2. IB revenue, gross 
Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services include certain TSS product revenue and liability balances reported in other lines of business related to customers who are also customers of those other lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary, in management's view, in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
firmwide metrics
DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED BUSINESS METRICS WITHIN TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES:
include deposits and deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements.
Liability balances
Asset Management
Represent assets actively managed by Asset Management on behalf of Institutional, Retail, Private Banking, Private Wealth Management and Bear Stearns Private Client Services clients. Excludes assets managed by American Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 42% ownership interest as of June 30, 2009.
Assets under management:
Represents assets under management as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Assets under supervision:
The following types of assets constitute alternative investments  hedge funds, currency, real estate and private equity.
Alternative assets:
AM's CLIENT SEGMENTS COMPRISE THE FOLLOWING:
brings comprehensive global investment services  including asset management, pension analytics, asset/liability management and active risk budgeting strategies  to corporate and public institutions, endowments, foundations, not-for-profit organizations and governments worldwide.
1. Institutional
provides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning and administration through third-party and direct distribution of a full range of investment vehicles.
2. Retail
The addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services.
3. 
Private Bank
offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business owners in the United States comprehensive wealth management solutions, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, and specialty-wealth advisory services.
4. Private Wealth Management
provides investment advice and wealth management services to high-net-worth individuals, money managers, and small corporations.
5. Bear Stearns Private Client Services
Page 39


