FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20101229155459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
On November 29, 2010 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") launched an offer to purchase (the "Offer") any and all of the 5.875% Capital Securities, Series O (the "capital securities") issued by JPMorgan Chase Capital XV (the "Trust"). The Offer expired at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on December 27, 2010 (the "Offer Expiration Date").
On December 28, 2010, JPMorgan Chase announced that, as of the Offer Expiration Date, $907,061,000 aggregate liquidation amount of the capital securities had been validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Offer, representing approximately 90.7% of the outstanding aggregate liquidation amount of the capital securities. JPMorgan Chase also announced that all of the capital securities validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Offer have been accepted for payment and that the settlement for the Offer had been completed. A copy of the press release announcing the final results of the Offer is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Following JPMorgan Chase's purchase of capital securities pursuant to the Offer, the Firm merged the Trust into a new Delaware statutory trust, as permitted by the terms of the Trust's governing documents. Following the merger, the capital securities that the Firm acquired pursuant to the Offer were exchanged for a like amount of the subordinated debt securities of JPMorgan Chase held by the Trust, and following such exchange, the capital securities and subordinated debt securities so exchanged were retired and canceled. The merger did not affect the rights of the holders of the capital securities that remain outstanding.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 29, 2010
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
JPMorgan Chase Announces Final Results of Cash Tender Offer for 5.875% Capital Securities, Series O, of JPMorgan Chase Capital XV
New York, December 28, 2010 - JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase") announced today the final results of its previously announced cash tender offer for any and all of the 5.875% Capital Securities, Series O, of JPMorgan Chase Capital XV (the "Securities"). As of 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on December 27, 2010 (the "Offer Expiration Date"), $907,061,000 aggregate liquidation amount of the Securities had been validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the tender offer, representing approximately 90.7% of the outstanding aggregate liquidation amount of the Securities. All of the Securities validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the tender offer have been accepted for payment. Payment by JPMorgan Chase for such Securities, as well as for consents delivered pursuant to the related consent solicitation without tendering the related Securities, was completed today.
About JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM), is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.1 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management, and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan and Chase brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com


