FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20100715063917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 15, 2010, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") reported 2010 second quarter net income of $4.8 billion, or $1.09 per share, compared with net income of $2.7 billion, or $0.28 per share, for the second quarter of 2009. A copy of the 2010 second quarter earnings release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and a copy of the earnings release financial supplement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Each of the Exhibits provided with this Form 8-K shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
This current report on Form 8-K (including the Exhibits hereto) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Firm's Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2009, and Quarterly Report on for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, each of which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website () and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.sec.gov
). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 15, 2010
Table of Contents

 

 

Exhibit 99.1
News release:
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) today reported second-quarter 2010 net income of $4.8 billion, compared with $2.7 billion in the second quarter of 2009. Earnings per share were $1.09, compared with $0.28 in the second quarter of 2009.
New York, July 15, 2010
Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented on the quarter: "Our net income increased to $4.8 billion, including the benefit from a $1.5 billion reduction of loan loss reserves  which we do not believe represents normal ongoing earnings  partially offset by a charge of $550 million for the U.K. bonus tax."
Continuing on the businesses, Dimon added: "Although we are gratified to see consumer-lending net charge-offs and delinquencies decline, they remain at extremely high levels and therefore returns in our consumer-lending businesses are still unacceptable. As a result, these businesses did not meet expectations nor generate satisfactory returns on capital for our shareholders. It is too early to say how much improvement we will see from here.
"We saw solid performance in our other businesses. In particular, our wholesale businesses experienced reduced net charge-offs that led to reductions in loan loss reserves, and are currently seeing credit costs which reflect the increasingly healthy condition of our wholesale clients."
 
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Commenting on the strength of the balance sheet, Dimon said: "We maintained very high liquidity, with a deposit-to-loan ratio of 127%, and generated additional capital, ending the quarter with a strong Tier 1 Common ratio of 9.6%. Total firmwide credit reserves fell to $36.7 billion, as loan balances remained flat and credit costs declined, resulting in a firmwide coverage ratio of 5.3% of total loans. Our strong and growing capital base has enabled us to buy back over $500 million of stock to date, and we will continue to do so opportunistically."
1
Dimon further remarked: "We continue to aggressively do all that we can reasonably and responsibly to contribute to the economic recovery. During the first half of the year, we loaned or raised capital for our clients of nearly $700 billion, and our small-business originations were up 37%.
Looking ahead, Dimon concluded: "We recognize a number of positive aspects of the pending regulatory reform legislation, including systemic risk oversight and resolution authority. However, many challenges and uncertainties remain which may result in unintended consequences for our clients, the markets and our businesses. With a need for global regulatory coordination and hundreds of rules to be written, increased focus is critical in order to implement these reforms in a way that protects consumers and the competitiveness of the U.S. financial system, while ensuring the flow of safe and sound credit. As always, and regardless of uncertainties about the credit environment and pending regulation, we remain committed to the long-term growth of our franchise. We continue to invest in our infrastructure to enable us to deliver the quality products and services that our customers demand, and to provide good returns for our shareholders."
In the discussion below of the business segments and of JPMorgan Chase as a Firm, information is presented on a managed basis. For more information about managed basis, as well as other non-GAAP financial measures used by management to evaluate the performance of each line of business, see page 13.
The following discussion compares the second quarters of 2010 and 2009 unless otherwise noted.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
INVESTMENT BANK (IB)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $1.4 billion, down 6% compared with the prior year. These results reflected lower revenue and higher noninterest expense, predominantly offset by a benefit from the provision for credit losses.
Net revenue was $6.3 billion, compared with $7.3 billion in the prior year. Investment banking fees decreased by 37% to $1.4 billion, consisting of equity underwriting fees of $354 million (down 68%), debt underwriting fees of $696 million (down 6%) and advisory fees of $355 million (down 10%). Fixed Income Markets revenue was $3.6 billion, compared with $4.9 billion in the prior year. The decrease largely reflected lower results in credit markets, rates and commodities. Equity Markets revenue was $1.0 billion, compared with $708 million in the prior year, reflecting solid client revenue. Credit Portfolio revenue was $326 million, primarily reflecting net interest income and fees on retained loans.
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $325 million, compared with an expense of $871 million in the prior year. The current-quarter provision reflected a reduction in the allowance for loan losses, largely related to net repayments and loan sales. The allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 3.98%, compared with 7.91% in the prior year. The decline in the allowance ratio was due largely to the consolidation of asset-backed commercial paper conduits in accordance with new accounting guidance, effective January 1, 2010. Excluding these balances, the current-quarter allowance coverage ratio was 6.49%. Net charge-offs were $28 million, compared with $433 million in the prior year. Nonperforming loans were $2.3 billion, down by $1.3 billion from the prior year and $481 million from the prior quarter.
Noninterest expense was $4.5 billion, compared with $4.1 billion in the prior year. Current-quarter results included the impact of the U.K. bonus tax.
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted, and all rankings are according to Dealogic)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES (RFS)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $1.0 billion, compared with $15 million in the prior year.
Net revenue was $7.8 billion, a decrease of $161 million, or 2%, compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.8 billion, down by $213 million, or 4%, reflecting the impact of lower loan and deposit balances, partially offset by a shift to wider-spread deposit products. Noninterest revenue was $3.0 billion, relatively flat compared with the prior year, as increased mortgage fees and related income, debit card income and auto operating lease income were offset by declining deposit-related fees.
The provision for credit losses was $1.7 billion, a decrease of $2.1 billion from the prior year and $2.0 billion from the prior quarter. Although losses for the mortgage and home equity portfolios continued to be extremely high, the current-quarter provision reflected improved delinquency trends and reduced net charge-offs as compared to prior periods. Additionally, the prior-year and prior-quarter provisions included additions to the allowance for loan losses of $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. Home equity net charge-offs were $796 million (3.32% net charge-off rate), compared with $1.3 billion (4.61% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Subprime mortgage net charge-offs were $282 million (8.63% net charge-off rate), compared with $410 million (11.50% net charge-off rate). Prime mortgage net charge-offs were $264 million (1.79% net charge-off rate), compared with $481 million (3.07% net charge-off rate). The allowance for loan losses to ending loans retained, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans, was 5.26%, compared with 4.41% in the prior year and 5.16% in the prior quarter.
1
1
1
1
1
1
Noninterest expense was $4.3 billion, an increase of $202 million, or 5%, from the prior year.
reported net income of $914 million, a decrease of $56 million, or 6%, compared with the prior year.
Retail Banking
Net revenue was $4.4 billion, down 3% compared with the prior year. The decrease was driven by declining deposit-related fees and lower deposit balances, largely offset by a shift to wider-spread deposit products and higher debit card income.
The provision for credit losses was $168 million, compared with $361 million in the prior year. The prior-year provision reflected an increase in the Business Banking allowance for loan losses. Retail Banking net charge-offs were $168 million (4.04% net charge-off rate), compared with $211 million (4.70% net charge-off rate) in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $2.6 billion, up 3% compared with the prior year, resulting from sales force increases.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
reported net income of $364 million, an increase of $129 million, or 55%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by higher noninterest revenue and a lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.
Mortgage Banking & Other Consumer Lending
Net revenue of $2.0 billion was up by $193 million, or 10%, from the prior year, and includes Mortgage Banking revenue of $1.2 billion, up by $62 million, and Other Consumer Lending revenue (comprised of Auto and Student Lending) of $850 million, up by $131 million predominantly as a result of higher auto loan and lease balances. Mortgage Banking revenue includes $212 million of net interest income, $886 million of mortgage fees and related income and $100 million of other noninterest revenue. Included in mortgage fees and related income is $9 million of production revenue, compared with $284 million in the prior year, reflecting higher repurchase losses in the current year and the impact of write-downs on the mortgage warehouse in the prior year. Repurchase losses were $667 million, compared with $255 million in the prior year and $432 million in the prior quarter. Also included is net mortgage servicing revenue of $877 million, up by $354 million from the prior year, which is comprised of operating revenue and MSR risk management revenue. Operating revenue of $566 million was up by $124 million as the improvement in other changes in MSR asset fair value was partially offset by lower loan servicing revenue as a result of lower third-party loans serviced. MSR risk management results were $311 million, compared with $81 million in the prior year.
The provision for credit losses, predominantly related to the student and auto loan portfolios, was $175 million, compared with $366 million in the prior year. The prior-year provision reflected an increase in the allowance for loan losses for student and auto loans. Student loan and other net charge-offs were $150 million (4.04% net charge-off rate), compared with $101 million (2.79% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Auto loan net charge-offs were $58 million (0.49% net charge-off rate), compared with $146 million (1.36% net charge-off rate) in the prior year.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
Noninterest expense was $1.2 billion, up by $138 million, or 12%, from the prior year, driven by an increase in default-related expense.
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
reported a net loss of $236 million, compared with a net loss of $1.2 billion in the prior year. The improvement was driven by a lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower net interest income.
Real Estate Portfolios
Net revenue was $1.4 billion, down by $228 million, or 14%, from the prior year. The decrease was driven by a decline in net interest income as a result of lower loan balances, reflecting portfolio run-off.
The provision for credit losses was $1.4 billion, compared with $3.1 billion in the prior year. The current-quarter provision reflected improved delinquency trends and reduced net charge-offs, while the prior-year provision included an addition to the allowance for loan losses of $930 million in the home equity and mortgage loan portfolios. (For further detail, see RFS discussion of the provision for credit losses.)
Noninterest expense was $405 million, down by $12 million, or 3%, from the prior year, reflecting a decrease in foreclosed asset expense.
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
CARD SERVICES (CS)
(*)
 
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $343 million, compared with a net loss of $672 million in the prior year. The improved results were driven by a lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower net revenue.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
End-of-period loans were $143.0 billion, a decrease of $28.5 billion, or 17%, from the prior year and $6.3 billion, or 4%, from the prior quarter. Average loans were $146.3 billion, a decrease of $27.8 billion, or 16%, from the prior year and $9.5 billion, or 6%, from the prior quarter. The declines in both end-of-period and average loans were consistent with expected portfolio run-off.
Net revenue was $4.2 billion, a decrease of $651 million, or 13%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $3.4 billion, down by $955 million, or 22%. The decrease was driven by lower average loan balances, the impact of legislative changes and a decreased level of fees. These decreases were offset partially by lower revenue reversals associated with lower charge-offs. Noninterest revenue was $861 million, an increase of $304 million, or 55%. The prior-year included a write-down of securitization interests.
The provision for credit losses was $2.2 billion, compared with $4.6 billion in the prior year and $3.5 billion in the prior quarter. The current-quarter provision included a reduction of $1.5 billion to the allowance for loan losses, reflecting reduced net charge-offs and lower estimated losses. The prior-year provision included an addition of $250 million to the allowance for loan losses. The net charge-off rate was 10.20%, up from 10.03% in the prior year and down from 11.75% in the prior quarter. The prior-quarter net charge-off rate was negatively affected by approximately 60 basis points from a payment-holiday program offered in the second quarter of 2009. The 30-day delinquency rate was 4.96%, down from 5.86% in the prior year and 5.62% in the prior quarter. Excluding the Washington Mutual portfolio, the net charge-off rate was 9.02%, up from 8.97% in the prior year and down from 10.54% in the prior quarter; and the 30-day delinquency rate was 4.48%, down from 5.27% in the prior year and 4.99% in the prior quarter.
Noninterest expense was $1.4 billion, an increase of $103 million, or 8%, due to higher marketing expense.
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
COMMERCIAL BANKING (CB)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $693 million, an increase of $325 million, or 88%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by a reduction in the provision for credit losses.
Net revenue was $1.5 billion, relatively flat compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $940 million, down by $55 million, or 6%, driven by spread compression on liability products and lower loan balances, predominantly offset by growth in liability balances and wider loan spreads. Noninterest revenue was $546 million, an increase of $88 million, or 19%. The current quarter reflected gains on sales of loans and other real estate owned, and higher lending-related fees, while the prior year reflected markdowns on certain assets held at fair value.
Revenue from Middle Market Banking was $767 million, a decrease of $5 million, or 1%, from the prior year. Revenue from Commercial Term Lending was $237 million, an increase of $13 million, or 6%. Revenue from Mid-Corporate Banking was $285 million, a decrease of $20 million, or 7%. Revenue from Real Estate Banking was $125 million, an increase of $5 million, or 4%.
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $235 million, compared with an expense of $312 million in the prior year. The current-quarter provision included a reduction of $413 million to the allowance for credit losses, mainly due to refinements to credit loss estimates and improvement in the credit quality of the commercial and industrial portfolio. Net charge-offs were $176 million (0.74% net charge-off rate), compared with $181 million (0.67% net charge-off rate) in the prior year and $229 million (0.96% net charge-off rate) in the prior quarter. Current-quarter net charge-offs were largely related to commercial real estate. The allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 2.82%, down from 2.87% in the prior year and 3.15% in the prior quarter. Nonperforming loans were $3.1 billion, up by $1.0 billion from the prior year and $81 million from the prior quarter, reflecting increases in nonperforming commercial real estate loans.
Noninterest expense was $542 million, an increase of $7 million, relatively flat compared with the prior year.
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES (TSS)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $292 million, a decrease of $87 million, or 23%, from the prior year. These results reflected lower net revenue and higher noninterest expense. Compared with the prior quarter, net income increased by $13 million, or 5%, reflecting seasonal activity in securities lending and depositary receipts.
Net revenue was $1.9 billion, a decrease of $19 million, or 1%, from the prior year. Worldwide Securities Services net revenue was $955 million, relatively flat compared with the prior year, as lower spreads in securities lending and the impact of lower volatility on foreign exchange were offset by higher market levels and net inflows of assets under custody. Similarly, Treasury Services net revenue was $926 million, relatively flat as lower deposit spreads were offset by higher trade loan and card product volumes.
TSS generated firmwide net revenue of $2.6 billion, including $1.7 billion by Treasury Services; of that amount, $926 million was recorded in Treasury Services, $665 million in Commercial Banking and $62 million in other lines of business. The remaining $955 million of firmwide net revenue was recorded in Worldwide Securities Services.
1
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $16 million, compared with a benefit of $5 million in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $1.4 billion, up $111 million, or 9% from the prior year. The increase was driven by higher performance-based compensation and continued investment in new product platforms, primarily related to international expansion.
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
ASSET MANAGEMENT (AM)
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $391 million, an increase of $39 million, or 11%, from the prior year. These results reflected higher net revenue and a lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $2.1 billion, an increase of $86 million, or 4%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $1.7 billion, up by $131 million, or 8%, due to the effect of higher market levels, net inflows to products with higher margins and higher performance fees, partially offset by lower quarterly valuations of seed capital investments. Net interest income was $369 million, down by $45 million, or 11%, due to narrower deposit spreads, largely offset by higher deposit balances.
Revenue from the Private Bank was $695 million, up 9% from the prior year. Revenue from Retail was $482 million, up 17%. Revenue from Institutional was $433 million, down 11%. Revenue from Private Wealth Management was $348 million, up 4%. Revenue from JPMorgan Securities was $110 million, flat compared with the prior year.
Assets under supervision were $1.6 trillion, an increase of $97 billion, or 6%, from the prior year. Assets under management were $1.2 trillion, a decrease of $10 billion, or 1%, due to outflows in liquidity products, predominantly offset by inflows in fixed income and equity products and the effect of higher market levels. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit balances were $479 billion, up by $107 billion, or 29%, due to custody and brokerage inflows and the effect of higher market levels.
The provision for credit losses was $5 million, compared with $59 million in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $1.4 billion, an increase of $51 million, or 4%, from the prior year, reflecting higher headcount.
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY
(*)
 
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $653 million, compared with net income of $808 million in the prior year.
Private Equity net income was $11 million, compared with a net loss of $27 million in the prior year. Net revenue was $48 million, an increase of $49 million, driven by higher private equity gains. Noninterest expense was $32 million, a decrease of $10 million.
Corporate net income was $642 million, compared with $835 million in the prior year. Net revenue was $1.8 billion, including $775 million of net interest income and $990 million of securities gains, reflecting repositioning of the investment portfolio. Noninterest expense was $1.0 billion, up from $822 million in the prior year, largely due to higher litigation expense.
JPMORGAN CHASE (JPM)
(*)
 
Discussion of Results:
Net income was $4.8 billion, up by $2.1 billion, or 76%, from the prior year. The increase in earnings was driven by a significantly lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower net revenue and higher noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $25.6 billion, a decrease of $2.1 billion, or 8%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $12.8 billion, down modestly from the prior year. The decline was driven by lower principal transactions revenue, reflecting lower trading results, and lower investment banking fees,
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
partially offset by higher securities gains. Net interest income was $12.8 billion, down by $1.9 billion, or 13%, largely driven by lower loan balances.
The provision for credit losses was $3.4 billion, down by $6.3 billion, or 65%, from the prior-year provision. The resulting firmwide allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 5.34%, compared with 5.01% in the prior year. The total consumer provision for credit losses was $3.9 billion, compared with $8.5 billion, reflecting a reduction in the allowance for credit losses as a result of improved delinquency trends and reduced net charge-offs. Consumer net charge-offs were $5.5 billion, compared with $7.0 billion, resulting in net charge-off rates of 5.34% and 6.18%, respectively. The wholesale provision for credit losses was a benefit of $572 million, compared with an expense of $1.2 billion, reflecting a reduction in the allowance for credit losses mainly due to net repayments, loan sales, refinements to credit loss estimates, and improvement in the credit quality of the commercial and industrial portfolio. Wholesale net charge-offs were $231 million, compared with $679 million, resulting in net charge-off rates of 0.44% and 1.19%, respectively. The Firm's nonperforming assets totaled $18.2 billion at June 30, 2010, up from the prior-year level of $17.5 billion and down from the prior-quarter level of $19.0 billion.
1
1
Noninterest expense was $14.6 billion, up by $1.1 billion, or 8%. Current-quarter results included the impact of the U.K. bonus tax and higher litigation expense.
Key Metrics and Business Updates:
(All comparisons refer to the prior-year quarter except as noted)
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
a. In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's results and the results of the lines of business on a "managed" basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications to present total net revenue for the Firm (and each of the business segments) on a FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense. These adjustments have no impact on net income as reported by the Firm as a whole or by the lines of business.
Prior to January 1, 2010, the Firm's managed-basis presentation also included certain reclassification adjustments that assumed credit card loans securitized by CS remained on the balance sheet. Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance that amended the accounting for the transfer of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs. Additionally, the new guidance required the Firm to consolidate its Firm-sponsored credit card securitizations trusts. The income, expense and credit costs associated with these securitization activities are now recorded in the 2010 Consolidated Statements of Income in the same classifications that were previously used to report such items on a managed basis. As a result of the consolidation of the credit card securitization trusts, reported and managed basis relating to credit card securitizations are comparable for periods beginning after January 1, 2010.
The presentation in 2009 of CS results on a managed basis assumed that credit card loans that had been securitized and sold in accordance with U.S. GAAP remained on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and that the earnings on the securitized loans were classified in the same manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. JPMorgan Chase used the concept of managed basis to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial performance of the entire managed credit card portfolio. Operations were funded and decisions were made about allocating resources, such as employees and capital, based on managed financial information. In addition, the same underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and securitized loans. Although securitizations result in the sale of credit card receivables to a trust, JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoing customer relationships, as the customers may continue to use their credit cards; accordingly, the customer's credit performance affects both the securitized loans and the loans retained on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. JPMorgan Chase believed that this managed-basis information was useful to investors, as it enabled them to understand both the credit risks associated with the loans reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Firm's retained interests in securitized loans.
b. The ratio for the allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans excludes the following: loans accounted for at fair value and loans held-for-sale; purchased credit-impaired loans; the allowance for loan losses related to purchased credit-impaired loans; and, loans from the Washington Mutual Master Trust, which were consolidated on the firm's balance sheet at fair value during the second quarter of 2009. Additionally, Real Estate Portfolios net charge-off rates exclude the impact of purchased credit-impaired loans. The allowance for loan losses related to the purchased credit-impaired portfolio was $2.8 billion at both June 30, 2010 and March 31, 2010. No allowance for loan losses was recorded at June 30, 2009 related to these loans.
c. Tier 1 Common Capital ("Tier 1 Common") is defined as Tier 1 Capital less elements of capital not in the form of common equity  such as qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries and qualifying trust preferred capital debt securities. Tier 1 Common, a non-GAAP financial measure, is used by banking regulators, investors and analysts to assess and compare the quality and composition of the Firm's capital with the capital of other financial services companies. The Firm uses Tier 1 Common along with the other capital measures to assess and monitor its capital position.
d. Headcount-related expense includes salary and benefits (excluding performance-based incentives), and other noncompensation costs related to employees.
e. TSS firmwide revenue includes certain TSS product revenue and liability balances reported in other lines of business  mainly CB, RFS and AM  related to customers who are also customers of those lines of business.
f. Pretax margin represents income before income tax expense divided by total net revenue, which is, in management's view, a comprehensive measure of pretax performance derived by measuring earnings after all costs are taken into consideration. It is, therefore, another basis that management uses to evaluate the performance of TSS and AM against the performance of their respective competitors.
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. News Release
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.0 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small-business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan and Chase brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
JPMorgan Chase & Co. will host a conference call today at 8:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review second-quarter financial results. The general public can access the call by dialing (866) 541-2724, or (877) 368-8360 in the U.S. and Canada, and (706) 634-7246 for international participants. The live audio webcast and presentation slides will be available at the Firm's website, , under Investor Relations, Investor Presentations.
www.jpmorganchase.com
A replay of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately noon on Thursday, July 15, through midnight, Friday, July 30, by telephone at (800) 642-1687 (U.S. and Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (international); use Conference ID #79875086. The replay will also be available via webcast on under Investor Relations, Investor Presentations. Additional detailed financial, statistical and business-related information is included in a financial supplement. The earnings release and the financial supplement are available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.jpmorganchase.com
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, which have been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and are available on JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s website (
www.jpmorganchase.com
) and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (
www.sec.gov
). JPMorgan Chase & Co. does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Page 1
 
 
Page 2
 
 
Page 3
 
 
Page 4
 
 
Page 5
 
 
Page 6
 
     The Firm prepares its consolidated financial statements using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). That presentation, which is referred to as "reported basis," provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.
     In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's results and the results of the lines of business on a "managed" basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. For additional information on managed basis, including the effect of adopting, effective January 1, 2010, new accounting guidance that amended the accounting for the transfer of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs, refer to the notes on Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 42.
 
Page 7
 
 
Page 8
 
 
Page 9
 
 
Page 10
 
 
Page 11
 
 
Page 12
 
 
Page 13
 
 
Page 14
 
 
Page 15
 
 
Page 16
 
 
Page 17
 
 
Page 18
 
 
Page 19
 
 
Page 20
 
 
Page 21
 
 
Page 22
 
 
Page 23
 
 
Page 24
 
     TSS firmwide metrics include revenue recorded in the CB, Retail Banking and Asset Management ("AM") lines of business and excludes FX revenue recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity. In order to capture the firmwide impact of Treasury Services ("TS") and TSS products and revenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
 
Page 25
 
 
Page 26
 
 
Page 27
 
 
Page 28
 
Page 29
 
 
Page 30
 
 
Page 31
 
 
Page 32
 
 
Page 33
 
 
Page 34
 
 
Page 35
 
 
Page 36
 
 
Page 37
 
 
Page 38
 
 
Page 39
 
 
Page 40
 
 
Page 41
 
The following are several of the non-GAAP measures that the Firm uses
for various reasons, including: (i) to allow management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, (ii) to assess and compare the quality and composition of the Firm's capital with the capital of other financial services companies, and (iii) more generally, to provide a more meaningful measure of certain metrics that enables comparability with prior periods, as well as with competitors.
Page 42
 
.
ACH: Automated Clearing House
: Represents period-end Allowance for loan losses divided by retained loans.
Allowance for loan losses to total loans
: Refers to total assets on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have been securitized and removed from the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets, for periods ended prior to the January 1, 2010, adoption of new FASB guidance requiring the consolidation of the Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts.
Average managed assets
Effective May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase merged with The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. ("Bear Stearns") and Bear Stearns became a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase. The final total purchase price to complete the merger was $1.5 billion.
Bear Stearns Merger:
: Represents the interest of third-party holders of debt/equity securities, or other obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates. The underlying obligations of the VIEs consist of short-term borrowings, commercial paper and long-term debt. The related assets consist of trading assets, available-for-sale securities, loans and other assets.
Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs
: In accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification about a specific event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), whichever is earlier.
Contractual credit card charge-off
: Includes Private Equity, Treasury and Chief Investment Office, and Corporate Other, which includes other centrally managed expense and discontinued operations.
Corporate/Private Equity
: For periods ended prior to the January 1, 2010, adoption of new guidance relating to the accounting for the transfer of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs, Card Services' results were presented on a "managed" basis that assumed that credit card loans that had been securitized and sold in accordance with U.S. GAAP remained on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and that earnings on the securitized loans were classified in the same manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. "Managed" results excluded the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables. Securitization did not change reported net income; however, it did affect the classification of items on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Credit card securitizations
: Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FASB
: Represents an ownership interest in cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables transferred by a third-party seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity, generally a trust.
Interests in purchased receivables
JPMorgan Chase's : Generally correspond to the following ratings as defined by Standard & Poor's / Moody's: Investment-Grade: AAA / Aaa to BBB- / Baa3; Noninvestment-Grade: BB+ / Ba1 and below.
internal risk ratings
: An indication of credit quality based on JPMorgan Chase's internal risk assessment system. "Investment-grade" generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a "BBB-"/"Baa3" or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
Investment-grade
: A non-GAAP presentation of financial results that includes reclassifications to present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, and for periods ended prior to the January 1, 2010, adoption of new accounting guidance relating to the accounting for the transfer of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs related to credit card securitizations. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure at the segment level, because it believes this provides information to enable investors to understand the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
Managed basis
: Refers to credit card receivables on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have been securitized and removed from the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets, for periods ended prior to the January 1, 2010, adoption of new guidance requiring the consolidation of the Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts.
Managed credit card receivables
: A measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market value is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan Chase and, therefore, creates a credit risk for the Firm. When the mark-to-market value is negative, JPMorgan Chase owes the counterparty; in this situation, the Firm has liquidity risk.
Mark-to-market exposure
: Reflects costs associated with the Washington Mutual transaction and the Bear Stearns merger in 2008.
Merger costs
: Includes changes in MSR asset fair value due to inputs or assumptions in model and derivative valuation adjustments.
MSR risk management revenue
: Represents net charge-offs (annualized) divided by average retained loans for the reporting period.
Net charge-off ratio
: The average rate for interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
Net yield on interest-earning assets
: Not meaningful.
NM
: Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.
Overhead ratio
Page 43
 
: Represent unvested stock-based compensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (collectively, "dividends"), which are included in the EPS calculation using the two-class method. JPMorgan Chase grants restricted stock and RSUs to certain employees under its stock-based compensation programs, which entitle the recipients to receive nonforfeitable dividends during the vesting period on a basis equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of common stock. These unvested awards meet the definition of participating securities. Under the two-class method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocated to each class of common stock and participating securities, based on their respective rights to receive dividends.
Participating securities
The Firm believes that this financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to generate income in excess of its provision for credit losses.
Pre-provision profit:
: Represents income before income tax expense divided by total net revenue, which is, in management's view, a comprehensive measure of pretax performance derived by measuring earnings after all costs are taken into consideration. It is, therefore, another basis that management uses to evaluate the performance of TSS and AM against the performance of their respective competitors.
Pretax margin
: Realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities (including physical commodities inventories that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value) and changes in fair value associated with financial instruments held predominantly by the Investment Bank for which the fair value option was elected. Principal transactions revenue also includes private equity gains and losses.
Principal transactions
: Financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP, which excludes the impact of taxable-equivalent adjustments. For periods ended prior to the January 1, 2010, adoption of new guidance requiring the consolidation of the Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts, the reported basis included the impact of credit card securitizations.
Reported basis
: Loans that are held for investment, which excludes loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value.
Retained loans
: Total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to fully taxable securities and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense.
Taxable-equivalent basis
: Financial statements and information that have not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent certified public accountant to express an opinion.
Unaudited
: Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
U.S. GAAP
: A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Value-at-risk ("VaR")
: On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual Bank ("Washington Mutual") from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") for $1.9 billion. The final allocation of the purchase price resulted in the recognition of negative goodwill and an extraordinary gain of $2.0 billion.
Washington Mutual Transaction
Page 44
 
INVESTMENT BANKING (IB)
include advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.
Investment banking fees
primarily include client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making across global fixed income markets, including foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and commodities markets.
Fixed income markets
primarily include client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives and convertibles.
Equities markets
includes net interest income, fees and loan sale activity, as well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, for IB's credit portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the Firm's lending and derivative activities, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment, which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty.
Credit portfolio revenue
RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES (RFS)
 Retail branch office personnel who acquire, retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assessing customer needs and recommending and selling appropriate banking products and services.
Personal bankers
 Retail branch office personnel who specialize in the marketing of a single product, including mortgages, investments, and business banking, by partnering with the personal bankers.
Sales specialists
includes net gains or losses on originations and sales of prime and subprime mortgage loans, other production-related fees and losses related to the repurchase of previously-sold loans.
Production revenue
includes the following components
Net mortgage servicing revenue
:
RFS (continued)
 Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by a banker in a Chase branch, real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.
Retail
 A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for loans. The Firm exited the broker channel during 2008.
Wholesale
 Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.
Correspondent
 These transactions occur when mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis, and exclude purchased bulk servicing transactions. These transactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportunities in the servicing portfolio in stable and periods of rising interest rates.
Correspondent negotiated transactions ("CNT")
CARD SERVICES (CS)
 Dollar amount of cardmember purchases, net of returns.
Sales volume
 Cardmember accounts with charging privileges.
Open accounts
 A business that processes bank card transactions for merchants.
Merchant acquiring business
 Dollar amount of transactions processed for merchants.
Bank card volume
 Number of transactions and authorizations processed for merchants.
Total transactions
Page 45
 
COMMERCIAL BANKING (CB)
CB Client Segments
:
CB Revenue:
CB selected business metrics:
TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES (TSS)
Treasury & Securities Services include certain TSS product revenue and liability balances reported in other lines of business related to customers who are also customers of those other lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary, in management's view, in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
firmwide metrics
Description of selected business metrics within TSS:
ASSET MANAGEMENT (AM)
 Represent assets actively managed by Asset Management on behalf of Institutional, Retail, Private Banking, Private Wealth Management and JPMorgan Securities clients. Includes "committed capital not called", on which AM earns fees. Excludes assets managed by American Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 42% ownership interest at June 30, 2010.
Assets under management
 Represents assets under management as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Assets under supervision
 The following types of assets constitute alternative investments  Hedge funds, currency, real estate and private equity.
Alternative assets
brings comprehensive global investment services  including asset management, pension analytics, asset/liability management and active risk budgeting strategies  to corporate and public institutions, endowments, foundations, not-for-profit organizations and governments worldwide.
Institutional
provides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning and administration through third-party and direct distribution of a full range of investment vehicles.
Retail
addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services.
The Private Bank
offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business owners in the U.S. comprehensive wealth management solutions, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, and specialty-wealth advisory services.
Private Wealth Management
provides investment advice and wealth management services to high-net-worth individuals, money managers, and small corporations.
JPMorgan Securities
Page 46
 
Commencing with the second quarter of 2010, JPMorgan Chase & Co. implemented some formatting changes to certain schedules in its Earnings Release Financial Supplement. The changes were made to make the presentation of the financial information contained in the Earnings Release Financial Supplement easier to read, reduce redundancies and to conform certain disclosures with those in the Form 10-Q/10-K. None of the changes affect previously disclosed financial data.
The following highlights some of the schedules that included more significant changes:
Page 47


