FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20110318155835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On March 18, 2011, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") announced the following actions taken by its Board of Directors: (i) declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share on JPMorgan Chase's common stock, payable on April 30, 2011 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 6, 2011 and (ii) authorization of a new $15 billion multi-year common stock repurchase program, of which up to $8.0 billion of common stock repurchases is approved for 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
270 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017-2070
NYSE symbol: JPM
www.jpmorganchase.com
 
 
News release: IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) today announced the following actions taken by its Board of Directors:
March 18, 2011  NEW YORK
 
 
Remarking on the dividend action and repurchase authorization, Jamie Dimon, Chairman and CEO, said, "We are pleased to be in a position to increase our dividend and to establish a new share repurchase program. Our current expectation is to return to a payout ratio of approximately 30% of normalized earnings over time. We will operate the business with the objectives of maintaining a Basel I Tier 1 Common ratio of at least 9.0% and meeting the Basel III requirements substantially ahead of time. Our earnings power will allow us to generate significant capital in excess of our objectives allowing us to aggressively invest in our future."
Dimon added, "JPMorgan Chase has substantial organic growth opportunities  building branches, adding bankers, and expanding product and service capabilities globally. Quality organic growth is our top priority and our best use of capital. We expect, though at a minimum, essentially to repurchase the same amount of shares that we issue for employee stock-based incentive awards. Beyond this, we intend to repurchase stock only when we are generating capital in excess of what we need to fund our organic growth and when we think it provides excellent value to our existing shareholders."
The timing of common stock purchases and the exact number of shares purchased through the repurchase authorization will depend on various factors, including market conditions, the Firm's capital position, internal capital generation, and organic investment opportunities. The new repurchase program does not include specific price targets, may be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs, and may be suspended at any time.
The Federal Reserve has approved utilization of up to $8.0 billion in 2011 of the $15 billion repurchase program. The share repurchase program replaces the prior $10 billion program that had approximately $3.2 billion of remaining authorization.
 
 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
News Release
About J.P. Morgan
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.1 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan and Chase brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com


