FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20111108155625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(d) Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangement of Certain Officers
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") elected James A. Bell as a director, effective November 8, 2011. Mr. Bell is Corporate President, Chief Financial Officer, and Executive Vice President of The Boeing Company. He has also been appointed to the Audit Committee of JPMorgan Chase's Board.
A copy of the Firm's news release dated November 8, 2011, announcing Mr. Bell's election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 8, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
News release: IMMEDIATE
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) today announced that it has elected James A. Bell to its Board of Directors. Mr. Bell is Corporate President, Chief Financial Officer, and Executive Vice President of The Boeing Company, the world's largest aerospace company. Mr. Bell has also been appointed to the Audit Committee of JPMorgan Chase's Board.
New York, November 8, 2011
"We are very proud that James Bell has chosen to join our Board of Directors," said Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "James brings decades of outstanding leadership experience and a vast knowledge of financial matters to our firm," Dimon added. In addition to his CFO role, Mr. Bell oversees two key Boeing businesses, Boeing Capital Corporation, the company's customer-financing subsidiary, and Boeing Shared Services, an 8,000-person multi-billion-dollar business unit that provides common internal services across Boeing's global enterprise.
A 40-year Boeing veteran, Mr. Bell has extensive experience overseeing business performance and strategic growth initiatives. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Dow Chemical Company, the Chicago Urban League, World Business Chicago and the Chicago Economic Club. He attended California State University at Los Angeles where he earned a bachelor's degree in Accounting.
About JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.3 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan and Chase brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
 


