FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20110930171301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K to supplement financial disclosures related to changes to its business segments that became effective July 1, 2011. Commencing July 1, 2011, the Firm's business segments have been reorganized as follows:
In furtherance of the reorganization of the RFS and Card business segments: (i) Todd Maclin will continue as the CEO of Commercial Banking (which remains unchanged as a reportable/operating segment); (ii) Gordon Smith continues as the CEO of Card; and (iii) Todd Maclin and Frank Bisignano will co-manage RFS.
The information contained in this Form 8-K is being furnished pursuant to Regulation FD in order to assist investors in understanding how the Firm's business segment results would have been presented in previously-filed reports had such results been reported to reflect the manner in which JPMorgan Chase's business segments are managed effective July 1, 2011. The recasting of the previously issued financial information does not represent a restatement of previously-issued financial statements and does not affect the Firm's reported net income, earnings per share, total assets, stockholders' equity or regulatory capital for any of the previously reported periods.
A copy of a presentation containing the supplemental financial information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This presentation is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Firm under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K to supplement financial disclosures related to changes to its business segments that became effective July 1, 2011. Commencing July 1, 2011, the Firm's business segments have been reorganized as follows:
All prior period disclosures have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
The chart below provides a mapping of the Firm's prior reporting to the current presentation.
Page 1 
 
 
Page 2 
 
 
Page 3
 
 
Page 4
 
 
Page 5
 
 
Page 6
 
 
Page 7
 
 
Page 8
 
 
Page 9
 
 
Page 10
 
 
Page 11
 
 
Page 12
 
 
Page 13
 
 
Page 14
 
 
Page 15
 
 
NA: Not applicable.
Page 16
 
The following are several of the non-GAAP measures that the Firm uses
for various reasons, including: (i) to allow management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, (ii) to assess and compare the quality and composition of the Firm's capital with the capital of other financial services companies, and (iii) more generally, to provide a more meaningful measure of certain metrics that enables comparability with prior periods, as well as with competitors.
Page 17


