FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20120611213128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
On June 11, 2012, JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the redemption on July 12, 2012 of all of the issued and outstanding trust preferred capital securities of each of the trusts listed in the press release. Under applicable bank regulatory capital guidelines, upon notice of redemption the trust preferred capital securities will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital for the Company. The redemptions will be funded with available cash.
A copy of the press release referenced above is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: June 11, 2012
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
270 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017-2070
NYSE symbol: JPM
www.jpmorganchase.com
 
 
News release: IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM)  Following the Federal Reserve's announcement on June 7, 2012 of proposed rules which will implement the phase-out of Tier 1 capital treatment for trust preferred capital securities, JPMorgan Chase & Co. announced today that each of the trusts listed below will redeem all of the issued and outstanding trust preferred capital securities identified below on July 12, 2012 pursuant to redemption provisions relating to the occurrence of a "Capital Treatment Event" (as defined in the documents governing those securities). In each case, the redemption price will be 100% of the liquidation amount of each trust preferred capital security, together with accrued and unpaid distributions to the redemption date. The redemptions will be funded with available cash.
NEW YORK, JUNE 11, 2012
 
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
News Release
About JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.3 trillion and operations worldwide. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan and Chase brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com


