FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20120301124606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 28, 2012, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm") held an Investor Day during which it provided information to investors about the Firm and its various lines of business. Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the slides furnished at, and posted on the Firm's website in connection with, the presentation.
The slides are being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Firm under the Securities Act of 1933.
This Current Report on Form 8-K (including the Exhibit hereto) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website (www.jpmorganchase.com)and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (www.sec.gov). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 1, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Forward-looking statements
This presentation contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (as revised by a Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 4, 2011), and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011 (as revised by a Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 4, 2011), June 30, 2011 (as revised by a Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 4, 2011), and September 30, 2011, which have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are available on JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s website () and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). JPMorgan Chase & Co. does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the respective dates of the referenced forward-looking statements.
www.jpmorganchase.com
www.sec.gov
 


