FILE:JPM/JPM-8K-20120613094503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
On June 13, 2012, James Dimon, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co. ("JPMorgan Chase" or the "Firm"), testified before the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. A copy of Mr. Dimon's oral testimony is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This testimony is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Firm under the Securities Act of 1933.
This Current Report on Form 8-K (including the Exhibit hereto) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 which have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are available on JPMorgan Chase's website (www.jpmorganchase.com)and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (www.sec.gov). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: June 13, 2012
 
Table of Contents
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Chairman Johnson, Ranking Member Shelby, and Members of the Committee, I am appearing today to discuss recent losses in a portfolio held by JPMorgan Chase's Chief Investment Office (CIO). These losses have generated considerable attention, and while we are still reviewing the facts, I will explain everything I can to the extent possible.
JPMorgan Chase's six lines of business provide a broad array of financial products and services to individuals, small and large businesses, governments and non-profits. These include deposit accounts, loans, credit cards, mortgages, capital markets advice, mutual funds and other investments.
What does the Chief Investment Office do?
Like many banks, we have more deposits than loans  at quarter end, we held approximately $1.1 trillion in deposits and $700 billion in loans. CIO, along with our Treasury unit, invests excess cash in a portfolio that includes Treasuries, agencies, mortgage-backed securities, high quality securities, corporate debt and other domestic and overseas assets. This portfolio serves as an important source of liquidity and maintains an average rating of AA+. It also serves as an important vehicle for managing the assets and liabilities of the consolidated company. In short, the bulk of CIO's responsibility is to manage an approximately $350 billion portfolio in a conservative manner.
While CIO's primary purpose is to invest excess liabilities and manage long-term interest rate and currency exposure, it also maintains a smaller synthetic credit portfolio whose original intent was to protect  or "hedge"  the company against a systemic event, like the financial crisis or Eurozone situation. Among the largest risks we have as a bank are the potential credit losses we could incur from the loans we make. The recent problems in CIO occurred in this separate area of CIO's responsibility: the synthetic credit portfolio. This portfolio was designed to generate modest returns in a benign credit environment and more substantial returns in a stressed environment. And as the financial crisis unfolded, the portfolio performed as expected, producing income and gains to offset some of the credit losses we were experiencing.
What Happened?
In December 2011, as part of a firmwide effort in anticipation of new Basel capital requirements, we instructed CIO to reduce risk-weighted assets and associated risk. To achieve this in the synthetic credit portfolio, the CIO could have simply reduced its existing positions; instead, starting in mid-January, it embarked on a complex strategy that entailed adding positions that it believed would offset the existing ones. This strategy, however, ended up creating a portfolio that was larger and ultimately resulted in even more complex and hard-to-manage risks.
This portfolio morphed into something that, rather than protect the Firm, created new and potentially larger risks. As a result, we have let a lot of people down, and we are sorry for it.
What Went Wrong?
We believe now that a series of events led to the difficulties in the synthetic credit portfolio. Among them:
 
 
 
 
 
Steps Taken
In response to this incident, we have taken a number of important actions to guard against any recurrence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Perspective
We will not make light of these losses, but they should be put into perspective. We will lose some of our shareholders' money  and for that, we feel terrible  but no client, customer or taxpayer money was impacted by this incident.
Our fortress balance sheet remains intact: as of quarter end, we held $190 billion in equity and well over $30 billion in reserves. We maintain extremely strong capital ratios which remain of regulatory capital standards. As of March 31, 2012, our Basel I Tier 1 common ratio was 10.4%; our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common ratio is at 8.2%  both among the highest levels in the banking sector.
far in excess
1
We expect both of these numbers to be higher by the end of the year.
All of our lines of business remain profitable and continue to serve consumers and businesses. While there are still two weeks left in our second quarter, we expect our quarter to be solidly profitable.
In short, our strong capital position and diversified business model did what they were supposed to do: cushion us against an unexpected loss in one area of our business.
While this incident is embarrassing, it should not and will not detract our employees from our main mission: to serve clients  consumers and companies  and communities around the globe.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All of these activities come with risk. And just as we have remained focused on serving our clients, we have also remained focused on managing the risks of our business, particularly given today's considerable global economic and financial volatility.
Last, I would like to say that in the face of these recent losses, we have come together as a Firm, acknowledged our mistakes, and committed ourselves to fixing them. We will learn from this incident and my conviction is that we will emerge from this moment a stronger, smarter, better company.
Thank you, and I'd welcome any questions you might have.
 


