FILE:TMO/TMO-8K-20030723091521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 22, 2003 ---------------------------------------- THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-8002 04-2209186 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation or organization) Number) Identification Number) 81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046 Waltham, Massachusetts 02454-9046 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (781) 622-1000 (Registrant's telephone number including area code)
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements are set forth under the heading "Forward Looking Statements" in the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 2003. These include risks and uncertainties relating to the need to develop new products and adapt to significant technological change, dependence on customers that operate in cyclical industries, general worldwide economic slow down and related uncertainties, the effect of changes in governmental regulations, dependence on customers' capital spending policies and government funding policies, use and protection of intellectual property, retention of contingent liabilities from businesses we sold, integration and consolidation of our instrument businesses, realization of potential future savings from new sourcing initiatives, implementation of a new branding strategy, implementation of strategies for improving internal growth, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on international operations, and potential impairment of goodwill. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change and, therefore, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to today. Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits (a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired: Not applicable. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information: Not applicable. (c) Exhibits 99 Press Release dated July 22, 2003. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Information furnished pursuant to Item 12, "Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition"). On July 22, 2003, the Registrant announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 28, 2003. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with the procedural guidance in SEC Release No. 33-8216, the information contained in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99 attached hereto is being furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure" rather than under "Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition." The information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, on this 22nd day of July 2003. THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION By: /s/ Kenneth J. Apicerno ------------------------------- Kenneth J. Apicerno Treasurer

Exhibit 99 THERMO ELECTRON LOGO FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact Information: J. Timothy Corcoran Phone: 781-622-1111 E-mail: tim.corcoran@thermo.com Website: www.thermo.com Thermo Electron Reports Second Quarter 2003 Results WALTHAM, Mass. (July 22, 2003) - Thermo Electron Corporation (NYSE:TMO) today reported GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $.32 for the second quarter of 2003, compared with $.38 in the year-ago period. Earnings in 2002 included significantly higher gains from the sale of securities than in 2003 and gains from divestitures. Second quarter revenues increased 1 percent to $516.4 million in 2003, from $509.1 million in 2002. After eliminating currency effects (which increased revenues by 7 percent) and the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, organic revenues declined 5 percent. GAAP operating margin for the quarter improved to 9.3 percent in 2003, from 6.9 percent a year ago. Adjusted EPS increased 8 percent to $.26 in the second quarter of 2003, versus $.24 for the same period in 2002. Adjusted operating margin for the second quarter increased to 10.8 percent in 2003, compared with 10.6 percent a year ago. Adjusted EPS and adjusted operating margin exclude restructuring and other costs/income and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Adjusted EPS also excludes income from the sale of shares of FLIR Systems and Thoratec, gains/losses on the early retirement of debt, gains/losses on disposal of discontinued operations, tax provisions/benefits related to the previous items, and benefit from tax credit carryforwards. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, see the accompanying table entitled "Consolidated Statement of Income." "Our financial performance this quarter exceeded our expectations, evidenced by stronger operating margins and the increase in adjusted EPS," said Marijn E. Dekkers, president and chief executive officer of Thermo Electron. "In addition, operating cash flow from continuing operations was $53 million, up significantly from $12 million a year ago and $17 million in the first quarter. In spite of the challenges still posed by the global economy, and particularly the weak industrial capital spending environment, we continue to deliver EPS growth. "Now that we are acting as an integrated company - in the way we work internally and the way we deal with customers - we are pushing forward with a number of key initiatives designed to drive top-line growth in the future. We are focusing our R&D, commercial activities, and service offerings on creating total solutions for the laboratory and the production line. One result of this approach was our strong showing at the recent ASMS (American Society of Mass Spectrometry) conference, where we reinforced our leading position in mass spectrometry analysis with a full line of systems, software, and consumables." Mr. Dekkers added, "By leveraging the strengths of `One Thermo' and driving productivity improvement company-wide, we expect to continue to achieve EPS growth. Our goal is to report $.25 to $.27 in adjusted EPS for the third quarter of 2003, and, as we stated previously, $1.07 to $1.12 for the full year." This guidance excludes $.01 of expense per quarter from the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, and also excludes restructuring and other costs/income and gains and losses from the sale of businesses, real estate, and
our remaining interest in Thoratec, as well as unusual items we may have in the future. Sector Results Please note: As mentioned in our last earnings release, in the first quarter of 2003 we realigned several businesses among the sectors and began to allocate to the sectors some costs previously reported as corporate expenses. Results for 2002 have been restated to reflect the sector realignment and cost reallocation. Organic revenue growth figures exclude the effects of acquisitions, divestitures, and currency translation. Life and Laboratory Sciences Second quarter 2003 revenues for the Life and Laboratory Sciences sector increased to $314 million, from $290 million in 2002; organic revenues were up 1 percent. Organic growth was driven primarily by sales of our advanced mass spectrometry systems, laboratory informatics software, and clinical diagnostics products for rapid point-of-care testing, offset by weak sales of equipment used for sample preparation and storage. GAAP operating margin was 14.0 percent in the second quarter of 2003, versus 13.9 percent a year ago. Adjusted operating margin increased to 15.8 percent for the quarter, compared with 15.7 percent in 2002. Our leadership in mass spectrometry analysis was underscored at the recent ASMS conference in Montreal, where we introduced our standalone Finnigan LTQ(TM) ion trap system featuring a linear design that offers significantly increased levels of performance. This newest addition to our family of ion trap mass spectrometers creates a three-tier portfolio of technologies for applications ranging from routine high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to the most demanding analysis of complex biological samples for proteome research and drug discovery. We also recently consolidated a number of small offices in Japan into a new, larger facility in Yokohama, which features a customer demonstration center that will allow us to better serve the world's second largest life and laboratory sciences market. Measurement and Control Revenues in the Measurement and Control sector were $152 million in the second quarter of 2003, versus $154 million in 2002; organic revenues declined 9 percent. In spite of ongoing weakness in many process markets we serve, we continued to record strong sales of products used for homeland security, particularly those for monitoring nuclear radiation. GAAP operating margin was 8.8 percent in both periods. Adjusted operating margin was 9.1 percent in 2003, compared with 9.7 percent a year ago, due to the lower organic revenues. Optical Technologies In the Optical Technologies sector, which now consists of our Spectra-Physics lasers and photonics businesses following the first-quarter realignment, revenues were $53 million for the second quarter of 2003, versus $68 million in 2002. Organic revenues declined 23 percent as a result of the prolonged downturn in microelectronics and industrial end-markets served by this sector. GAAP operating margin was negative 3.5 percent for the 2003 period, versus negative 17.0 percent in 2002, when the sector incurred significant restructuring charges. Adjusted operating margin for the sector was negative 2.4 percent in 2003, compared with negative 0.4 percent last year.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to the financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we use the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted EPS and adjusted operating margin, which exclude restructuring and other costs/income and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Adjusted EPS also excludes certain other gains and losses, tax provisions/benefits related to the previous items, and benefit from tax credit carryforwards. We exclude these items because they are outside of our normal operations and, in certain cases, are difficult to forecast accurately for future periods. We believe that the inclusion of such non-GAAP measures helps investors to gain a better understanding of our core operating results and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts the company's performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or forecasts. Specifically: o We exclude costs and tax effects associated with restructuring activities, such as reducing overhead and consolidating facilities, in connection with the final phase of our overall reorganization, which we expect will be substantially complete in 2004. We believe that the costs related to these restructuring activities are not indicative of our normal operating costs. o We exclude the expense and tax effects associated with the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets because a significant portion of the purchase price for acquisitions may be allocated to intangible assets that have lives of 5 to 10 years. Exclusion of the amortization expense allows comparisons of operating results that are consistent over time. o We also exclude certain gains/losses and related tax effects, as well as benefit from tax credit carryforwards, that are either isolated or cannot be expected to occur again with any regularity or predictability, such as those arising from the sale of a business or real estate, the sale of our remaining equity interests in Thoratec and FLIR Systems, and the early retirement of debt, which we believe are not indicative of our normal operating gains and losses. Thermo's management uses these non-GAAP measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, as the basis for measuring the company's core operating performance and comparing such performance to that of prior periods and to the performance of our competitors. Such measures are also used by management in their financial and operating decision-making and for compensation purposes. The non-GAAP financial measures of Thermo's results of operations included in this press release are not meant to be considered superior to or a substitute for Thermo's results of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations of such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are set forth in the accompanying tables. Thermo's earnings guidance, however, is only provided on an adjusted basis. It is not feasible to provide GAAP EPS guidance because the items excluded, other than the amortization expense, are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events, such as decisions concerning the location and timing of facility consolidations, and the timing of and proceeds from the sale of our remaining equity interest in Thoratec.
Conference Call Thermo Electron will hold its earnings conference call on Wednesday, July 23, 2003, at 11 a.m. Eastern time. To listen, dial 888-872-9028 within the U.S., or 973-633-6740 outside the U.S. You can also listen to the call live on the Web by visiting www.thermo.com and clicking on "Investors." An audio archive of the call will be available in that section of our Web site until August 22, 2003. Also in that section, you will find this press release and the accompanying reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures under the heading "News & Events." About Thermo Electron A world leader in high-tech instruments, Thermo Electron Corporation helps life science, laboratory, and industrial customers advance scientific knowledge, enable drug discovery, improve manufacturing processes, and protect people and the environment with instruments, scientific equipment, and integrated software solutions. Based in Waltham, Massachusetts, Thermo Electron has revenues of more than $2 billion, and employs approximately 11,000 people in 30 countries worldwide. For more information, visit www.thermo.com. The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements are set forth under the heading "Forward-Looking Statements" in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 2003. These include risks and uncertainties relating to the need to develop new products and adapt to significant technological change, dependence on customers that operate in cyclical industries, general worldwide economic slowdown and related uncertainties, the effect of changes in governmental regulations, dependence on customers' capital spending policies and government funding policies, use and protection of intellectual property, retention of contingent liabilities from businesses we sold, integration and consolidation of our instrument businesses, realization of potential future savings from new sourcing initiatives, implementation of our new branding strategy, implementation of strategies for improving internal growth, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on international operations, and potential impairment of goodwill. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.




