FILE:TMO/TMO-8K-20040726160605.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 -------------------------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 26, 2004 THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter) -------------------------------------------------------- Commission File Number 1-8002 Delaware 04-2209186 (State or other jurisdiction (IRS Employer Identification Number) of incorporation) 81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046 Waltham, Massachusetts 02454-9046 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (781) 622-1000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements are set forth under the heading "Forward Looking Statements" in the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2004. These include risks and uncertainties relating to the need to develop new products and adapt to significant technological change, dependence on customers that operate in cyclical industries, general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties, the effect of changes in governmental regulations, dependence on customers' capital spending policies and government funding policies, use and protection of intellectual property, retention of contingent liabilities from businesses we sold, realization of potential future savings from new sourcing initiatives, implementation of new branding strategy, implementation of strategies for improving internal growth, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on international operations, identification, completion and integration of new acquisitions and potential impairment of goodwill from previous acquisitions. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change and, therefore, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to today. Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits (a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired: Not applicable. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information: Not applicable. (c) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated July 16, 2004 99.2 Supplemental Financial Information Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure On June 1, 2004, the Registrant announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement (the "Definitive Agreement") for the sale of substantially all of its Optical Technologies Segment, Spectra-Physics ("Spectra-Physics"), to Newport Corporation for $300 million, subject to a post-closing balance sheet adjustment. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement was attached as Exhibit 99 to the Registrant's Form 8-K dated June 1, 2004 (filed June 2, 2004). On July 16, 2004, the Registrant subsequently announced that it had completed the sale of Spectra-Physics. The full text of the press release issued in connection with that announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing information contained in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing. Regulation FD Disclosure (Information furnished pursuant to Item 12, "Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition") The execution of the Definitive Agreement with Newport resulted in Spectra-Physics being treated as a discontinued operation in the Registrant's financial statements beginning in the second quarter of 2004. As a result, the Registrant has restated its historical financial statements by removing Spectra-Physics from its results of continuing operations and reporting the business as a discontinued operation. Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto includes unaudited financial data concerning the effect of treating Spectra-Physics as a discontinued operation. < 2
> THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION In accordance with the procedural guidance in SEC Release No. 33-8216, the foregoing information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto is being furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure" rather than under "Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition." The information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing. < 3
> SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, on this 26th day of July 2004. THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION By: /s/ Peter E. Hornstra ------------------------------------------------- Peter E. Hornstra Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer < 4
>


Exhibit 99.1 [Thermo Electron Corporation Logo] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Media Contact Information: Investor Contact Information: Lori Gorski J. Timothy Corcoran Phone: 781-622-1242 Phone: 781-622-1111 E-mail: lori.gorski@thermo.com E-mail: tim.corcoran@thermo.com Website: www.thermo.com Thermo Electron Completes Transaction for the Sale of Its Optical Technologies Segment to Newport Corporation for $300 Million WALTHAM, Mass. (July 16, 2004) - Thermo Electron Corporation (NYSE:TMO) announced today that it has completed the previously announced sale of its Optical Technologies Segment to Newport Corporation (NYSE:NEWP). On June 1, 2004, Thermo Electron announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to sell the business for $300 million to Newport Corporation. Under the terms of this agreement Thermo Electron receives $200 million in cash proceeds, $50 million in a 5-year note due in 2009, and $50 million in Newport common stock. Thermo retains ownership of a small business in the Optical Technologies Segment that makes highly technical digital cameras used in Thermo's Scientific Instruments Division. Thermo Electron Corporation is the world leader in analytical instruments. Our instrument solutions enable our customers to make the world a healthier, cleaner and safer place. Thermo's Life and Laboratory Sciences business (70% of revenues) provides analytical instruments, scientific equipment, services and software solutions for life sciences, drug discovery, clinical, environmental, and industrial laboratories. Thermo's Measurement and Control business (30% of revenues) provides analytical instruments used in a variety of manufacturing processes as well as safety and homeland security applications. Based near Boston, Massachusetts, Thermo has revenues of more than $2 billion, and employs approximately 10,000 people in 30 countries. For more information, visit www.thermo.com. The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements are set forth under the heading "Forward-Looking Statements" in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2004. These include risks and uncertainties relating to: the need to develop new products and adapt to significant technological change, dependence on customers that operate in cyclical industries, general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties, the effect of changes in governmental regulations, dependence on customers' capital spending policies and government funding policies, use and protection of intellectual property, exposure to product liability claims in excess of insurance coverage, retention of contingent liabilities from businesses we sold, realization of potential future savings from new productivity initiatives, implementation of new branding strategy, implementation of strategies for improving internal growth, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on international operations, identification, completion and integration of new acquisitions and potential impairment of goodwill from previous acquisitions. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. ###

Exhibit 99.2 THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION Supplemental Financial Information Restated Presentation for Sale of Spectra-Physics Schedule A. Restated Statement of Operations (Unaudited), GAAP and Adjusted: 2001 to 2003 Schedule B. Reconciliation of Previously Reported GAAP P&L to Restated GAAP P&L: Q1-03 to Q1-04 Schedule C. Reconciliation of Previously Provided Adjusted P&L to Restated Adjusted P&L: Q1-03 to Q1-04 Schedule D. Reconciliation of Previously Reported GAAP and Restated GAAP Results to Previously Provided Adjusted and Restated Adjusted Results: Q1-03 to Q1-04 Restated Presentation On June 1, 2004, Thermo announced that it entered into an agreement to sell substantially all of its Optical Technologies Segment, Spectra-Physics. The execution of this agreement resulted in Spectra-Physics being treated as a discontinued operation in Thermo's financial statements beginning in the second quarter of 2004, by removing Spectra-Physics from its results of continuing operations and reporting the business as a discontinued operation. The following unaudited financial information reflects the effect on Thermo's historical financial statements of treating Spectra Physics as a discontinued operation. Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to the financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we present certain non-GAAP financial measures herein (identified as "adjusted"), which exclude, to the extent such item would have been included in the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure: certain charges to cost of revenues; restructuring and other costs/ income; amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and, in 2001, goodwill; certain other gains and losses that are either isolated or cannot be expected to occur again with any regularity or predictability, such as those arising from the sale of a business or real estate, the sale of our shares in Thoratec and FLIR Systems, Inc. (we no longer hold shares of FLIR Systems, Inc.), the tax provisions/benefits related to the previous items, and benefit from tax credit carryforwards. We exclude these items because they are outside of our normal operations and we believe that the inclusion of such non-GAAP measures helps investors to gain a better understanding of our core operating results. Thermo's management uses certain of these non-GAAP measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, as the basis for measuring the company's core operating performance and comparing such performance to that of prior periods and to the performance of our competitors. We believe that this allows for comparisons of operating results that are consistent over time. Such measures are also used by management in their financial and operating decision making and for compensation purposes. The non-GAAP financial measures of Thermo's results of operations presented herein are not meant to be considered superior to or a substitute for Thermo's results of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations of such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are set forth in the accompanying tables.
< 2
> Thermo Electron Corporation GAAP P&L (as previously reported and restated) Schedule B (In thousands except EPS) (Unaudited)


