FILE:TMO/TMO-8K-20050722161713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 ------------------------------------------------------- FORM 8-K/A Amendment No. 1 to CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): May 6, 2005 THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) -------------------------------------------------------- Commission File Number 1-8002 Delaware 04-2209186 (State or other Jurisdiction of (IRS Employer Identification Number) incorporation) 81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046 Waltham, Massachusetts 02454-9046 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (781) 622-1000 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION Explanatory Note As previously reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 12, 2005 (the "Initial Filing"), on May 9, 2005, Thermo Electron Corporation (the "company") acquired the stock of certain businesses and assets that collectively comprise the Kendro Laboratory Products division ("Kendro") of SPX Corporation ("SPX"). This Amendment No. 1 amends the Initial Filing to include the historical financial statements of Kendro and the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01 of Form 8-K. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits (a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired. The following financial statements of Kendro are being filed with this report as Exhibit 99.4 and are incorporated herein by reference: 1) Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm; 2) Combined Statement of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 (unaudited) and for the year ended December 31, 2004; 3) Combined Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2005 (unaudited) and December 31, 2004; 4) Combined Statement of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 (unaudited) and for the year ended December 31, 2004; 5) Combined Statement of Comprehensive Income and Parent's Investment for the three months ended March 31, 2005 (unaudited) and for the year ended December 31, 2004; and 6) Notes to Combined Financial Statements. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information. The following pro forma financial information is being filed with this report as Exhibit 99.5 and are incorporated herein by reference: 1) Unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of April 2, 2005; 2) Unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the three months ended April 2, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004; and 3) Notes to unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. < 2
> THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION (c) Exhibits. 23.1 Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP. 99.1 Credit Agreement among the company, the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Barclays Bank PLC, as Syndication Agent, and ABN AMRO Bank, N.V., as Documentation Agent, dated May 9, 2005.* 99.2 Amendment to Purchase Agreement among the company, the indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries of the company named therein, SPX, and the direct and indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries of SPX named therein, dated May 6, 2005.* 99.3 Press Release dated May 9, 2005, announcing the closing of the Kendro acquisition.* 99.4 Financial statements listed in Item 9.01(a). 99.5 Pro Forma financial information listed in Item 9.01(b). *Previously filed as an exhibit to the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 12, 2005. < 3
> THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION Date: July 22, 2005 /s/ Peter E. Hornstra ------------------------------------------------- Peter E. Hornstra Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer < 4
> THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 23.1 Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP. 99.1 Credit Agreement among the company, the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Barclays Bank PLC, as Syndication Agent, and ABN AMRO Bank, N.V., as Documentation Agent, dated May 9, 2005.* 99.2 Amendment to Purchase Agreement among the company, the indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries of the company named therein, SPX, and the direct and indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries of SPX named therein, dated May 6, 2005.* 99.3 Press Release dated May 9, 2005, announcing the closing of the Kendro acquisition.* 99.4 Financial statements listed in Item 9.01(a). 99.5 Pro Forma financial information listed in Item 9.01(b). *Previously filed as an exhibit to the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 12, 2005. < 5
>


Exhibit 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-00182, 33-8993, 33-8973, 33-16460, 33-16466, 33-25052, 33-37865, 33-37867, 33-36223, 33-52826, 33-52804, 33-52806, 33-52800, 33-37868, 33-51187, 33-51189, 33-54347, 33-54453, 33-65237, 33-61561, 33-58487, 333-19535, 333-14265, 333-90761, 333-90823, 333-94627, 333-48432, 333-46408, 333-43702, 333-43698, 333-40578, 333-40576, 333-33070, 333-33062, 333-33068, 333-33064, 333-33058, 333-33066, 333-33060, 333-33074, 333-33072, 333-62004, 333-76670, and 333-83470) of Thermo Electron Corporation of our report dated July 22, 2005 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes explanatory paragraphs relating to the preparation of the Kendro Laboratory Products combined financial statements covered by our report as described in Note 1, and disclaiming an opinion on the combined balance sheet as of March 31, 2005 and the combined statements of income, comprehensive income and parent's investment, and cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2005 of Kendro Laboratory Products) relating to the combined financial statements of Kendro Laboratory Products which appear in this Form 8-K/A. Deloitte & Touche LLP Charlotte, North Carolina July 22, 2005

Exhibit 99.4 KENDRO LABORATORY PRODUCTS INDEX OF COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS < F-6
> KENDRO LABORATORY PRODUCTS NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1. Basis of Presentation, Nature of Operations, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Subsequent Event The accompanying combined financial statements include the accounts of the Kendro Laboratory Products business (the "company" or "we"), which was sold to Thermo Electron Corporation on May 9, 2005 for $833.5 million, subject to a post-closing adjustment, pursuant to the purchase agreement by and among SPX Corporation (the "parent"); Kendro GP II, LLC, SPX Europe GmbH, General Signal Ireland B.V. and GSLE Development Corporation; and Thermo Electron Corporation and Thermo Electron (Oberhausen) GmbH (collectively, "Thermo Electron") dated January 19, 2005. The combined financial statements have been prepared using the company's historical basis in the assets and liabilities and the results of operations of the company included in the historical financial statements of the parent. Specifically, the accompanying combined financial statements include Kendro Laboratory Products, L.P.; Kendro Laboratory Products GmbH; GSLE Development Corporation; Kendro Laboratory Products plc; Kendro Laboratory Products AG; Cryonix, Inc.; Medical Equipment Maintenance Company; Kendro Laboratory Products (GP), Inc.; Key Scientific Inc.; Nippon Kendro KK; and Kendro GP II, LLC. Specifically identifiable administrative services and expenses incurred by the company in the normal course of business, such as external legal fees, audit fees, risk insurance premiums, certain employee benefit costs and other items were originally recorded by the parent. The costs associated with these services and expenses were allocated to the combined financial statements of the company from the parent. Management believes the assumptions used to allocate such items are reasonable. However, the combined financial information included herein may not necessarily reflect the combined financial position, operating results, changes in invested capital and cash flows of the company in the future or what they would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. Because a direct ownership relationship did not exist among all the various units comprising the company, the parent's net investment in the entities that comprise the company is shown in lieu of stockholder's equity in the combined financial statements. Changes in the parent's net investment represent the net earnings of the company and net cash transfers to the parent and other transfers from the parent. The accompanying combined financial statements for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 are unaudited. The unaudited interim combined financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the accompanying annual combined financial statements. In the opinion of management, such interim combined financial statements reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair statement of financial position at March 31, 2005 and the results of operations and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004. Unaudited results of operations for the interim periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any other interim period or the full year. In addition, for the reasons stated above, the unaudited interim combined financial statements may not reflect the financial position and operating results that would have been reported had the company been a separate, stand-alone entity during the interim periods. Nature of Operations We design, manufacture, market, and service a wide range of laboratory equipment for sample preparation, processing, and storage, used primarily in life sciences and drug discovery laboratories as well as clinical laboratories. < F-7
> KENDRO LABORATORY PRODUCTS NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) Note 1. Basis of Presentation, Nature of Operations, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Principles of Combination The accompanying combined financial statements include the accounts of and the entities listed above adjusted to include certain allocations from the parent as described above. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Foreign Currency Translation The financial statements of our foreign combined entities are translated into U.S. dollars in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation." Balance sheet accounts are translated at the current rate at the end of each period and income statement accounts are translated at the average rate. Gains and losses on foreign currency translations are reflected as a separate component of parent's investment and other comprehensive income. Transaction losses are included in the statement of income and totaled $4.2 million in 2004. Cash Equivalents We consider highly liquid money market investments with original maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable We recognize revenues from product sales upon shipment to the customer (f.o.b. shipping point) except for revenues from service contracts and long-term maintenance arrangements, which are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the agreement period. Certain sales to distributors made with return rights are recognized upon shipment to the customer. Expected returns under these arrangements are estimated and accrued for at the time of sale. The accrual considers restocking charges for returns and in some cases the customer must issue a replacement order before the return is authorized. Actual return experience may vary from our estimates. Amounts billed for shipping and handling are included in revenue and costs incurred for shipping and handling are recorded in cost of products sold and not netted against amounts billed. Deferred revenue in the accompanying balance sheet consists primarily of unearned revenue on service contracts, which is recognized ratably over the terms of the contracts. Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to pay amounts due. The allowance for doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in existing accounts receivable. We estimate the allowance based on historical write-off experience and a review of individual past due balances. Account balances are charged off against the allowance when we believe it is probable the receivable will not be recovered. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to customers. Research and Development Costs Internal research and development costs are expensed when incurred. < F-8
> KENDRO LABORATORY PRODUCTS NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) Note 1. Basis of Presentation, Nature of Operations, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment ("PP&E") is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. We use the straight-line method for computing depreciation expense over the useful lives of PP&E, which do not exceed 40 years for buildings and range from 3 to 15 years for machinery and equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the related asset or the life of the lease, whichever is shorter. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," which includes an estimate of the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. We periodically assess the realizability of deferred tax assets and the adequacy of deferred tax liabilities, including the results of local, state, federal or foreign statutory tax audits or estimates and judgments used. Certain of the entities included in the combined financial statements are partnerships which are owned by entities not included in the combined financial statements. Accordingly, no tax expense has been reflected for those partnership entities in the combined financial statements. Stock-Based Employee Compensation The parent has a stock-based compensation plan, including stock option, restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards. Expenses associated with the parent's plan have been allocated to the combined financial statements to the extent our employees participate in the plan. We account for our stock-based employee compensation under Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and, accordingly, except for awards of restricted stock and restricted stock units, we do not recognize any compensation expense. We have adopted the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation -- Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123." In December 2003, the Compensation Committee of the parent's Board of Directors announced its intent to issue restricted stock and restricted stock units in lieu of stock options for stock-based employee compensation to eligible employees commencing with grants in the first quarter of 2004. Accordingly, under APB No. 25 these awards to employees are required to be expensed over the vesting period. Non-cash pre-tax compensation expense associated with restricted stock awards was $0.4 million in 2004. There were no stock option grants made in 2004. As a result of the sale of the company on May 9, 2005, all restricted stock awards issued to our employees vested immediately. All options issued to our employees in 2001, 2002, and 2003 vested immediately upon sale and the optionees have two years from the date of sale to exercise those options. Optionees have 90 days from the date of sale to exercise vested options issued prior to 2001. < F-9
> KENDRO LABORATORY PRODUCTS NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) Note 1. Basis of Presentation, Nature of Operations, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) We have applied the intrinsic value-based method of accounting prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting for stock-based compensation plans. Accordingly, no compensation cost is reflected in net income for stock option awards as all options granted had an exercise price equal to or in excess of the market value of the underlying parent common stock on the date of grant. In accordance with SFAS No. 148, the following table illustrates the pro forma effect on net income, had the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," been applied to stock-based employee compensation (in thousands): Note 2. Use of Estimates The preparation of our combined financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") requires us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the combined financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and base our estimates on experience, current and expected future conditions, third-party evaluations, and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities as well as identifying and assessing the accounting treatment with respect to commitments and contingencies. Actual results may differ from the estimates and assumptions used in the financial statements and related notes. Listed below are certain significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our financial statements. Certain other estimates and assumptions are further explained in the related notes. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We estimate losses for uncollectible accounts based on our historical experience and the evaluation of the likelihood of success in collecting specific customer receivables. Summarized below is the activity for the allowance for doubtful accounts (in thousands): < F-10
> KENDRO LABORATORY PRODUCTS NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) Note 2. Use of Estimates (continued) Inventory We estimate losses for excess and/or obsolete inventory and the net realizable value of inventory based on the aging of the inventory and the evaluation of the likelihood of recovering the inventory costs based on anticipated demand and selling price. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles Subject to Amortization We continually review whether events and circumstances subsequent to the acquisition of any long-lived assets or intangible assets subject to amortization, have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful lives of those assets may warrant revision or that the remaining balance of those assets may not be recoverable. If events and circumstances indicate that the long-lived assets should be reviewed for possible impairment, we use projections to assess whether future cash flows on a non-discounted basis related to the tested assets are likely to exceed the recorded carrying amount of those assets to determine if a write-down is appropriate. If we identify impairment, we will report a loss to the extent that the carrying value of the impaired assets exceeds their fair values as determined by valuation techniques appropriate in the circumstances that could include the use of similar projections on a discounted basis. In determining the estimated useful lives of definite-lived intangibles, we consider the nature, competitive position, life cycle position, and historical and expected future operating cash flows of each acquired asset, as well as our commitment to support these assets through continued investment and legal infringement protection. Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter and during interim periods if triggering events have occurred to determine whether the carrying value exceeds the implied value. The fair value of reporting units is based on discounted projected cash flows, but we also consider factors such as comparable industry price multiples. We employ cash flow projections that we believe to be reasonable under current and forecasted circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of the reported net assets of our reporting units. Many of our businesses closely follow changes in the industries and end-markets that they serve. Accordingly, we consider estimates and judgments that affect the future cash flow projections, including principal methods of competition, such as volume, price, service, product performance, and technical innovations, as well as estimates associated with cost improvement initiatives, capacity utilization, and assumptions for inflation and foreign currency changes. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. < F-11
> KENDRO LABORATORY PRODUCTS NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) Note 2. Use of Estimates (continued) Accrued Expenses We make estimates and judgments in establishing accruals as required under GAAP. Summarized in the table below are current accrued expenses at March 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 (in thousands): (1) Other consists of various items, including legal, interest and income taxes, none of which individually meet the threshold for separate disclosure. Legal It is our policy to accrue for estimated losses from legal actions or claims, including legal expenses, when events exist that make the realization of the losses or expenses probable and they can be reasonably estimated. Self-Insurance We are primarily self-insured for workers' compensation, automobile, product, general liability, and health costs, and we believe that we maintain adequate accruals to cover our retained liability. Our accrual for self-insurance liability is determined by management and is based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Management considers a number of factors, including third-party actuary valuations, when making these determinations. We maintain third party stop-loss insurance policies to cover certain liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts. Warranty In the normal course of business, we issue product warranties for specific product lines and provide for the estimated future warranty cost in the period in which the sale is recorded. We provide for the estimate of warranty cost based on contract terms and historical warranty loss experience that is periodically adjusted for recent actual experience. Because warranty estimates are forecasts that are based on the best available information, claims costs may differ from amounts provided. In addition, due to the seasonal fluctuations at certain of our businesses, the timing of warranty provisions and the usage of warranty accruals can vary period to period. We make adjustments to initial obligations for warranties as changes in the obligations become reasonably estimable. The following is an analysis of our product warranty accrual for the periods presented (in thousands): < F-12
> Note 2. Use of Estimates (continued) Income Taxes We analyze the potential realization of deferred tax assets associated with net operating loss and credit carryforwards. When we believe that it is more likely than not that a net operating loss or credit carryforward may expire unused, we establish a valuation allowance against them. Employee Benefit Plans We have defined benefit plans in Germany that cover a significant portion of our salaried and hourly paid employees in that country. We derive pension expense from an actuarial calculation based on the defined benefit plans' provisions and management's assumptions regarding discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and expected long-term rate of return on assets. Management determines the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets based upon historical actual asset returns and the expectations of asset returns over the expected period to fund participant benefits based on the current investment mix of our plans. Management sets the discount rate based on the yield of high quality fixed income investments, commonly defined as fixed income investments with at least a Moody's AA credit rating. The rate of increase in compensation levels is established based on management's expectations of current and foreseeable future increases in compensation. In addition, management also consults with independent actuaries in determining these assumptions. See Note 8 for more information. Further, certain of our U.S. employees participate in a defined benefit plan of the parent. Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestiture We use acquisitions as a part of our strategy to acquire access to new technology, expand our geographical reach, penetrate new markets and leverage our existing product, market, manufacturing or technical expertise. Acquisitions and a divestiture in 2004 are described below. < F-13
> Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestiture (continued) All business acquisitions of the company have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the combined statements of income include the results of each acquired business since the date of acquisition. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at estimates of fair values as determined by management based on information available. We finalize the allocation of purchase price to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed when we obtain information sufficient to complete the allocation, but in any case, within one year after acquisition. In March 2004, we acquired H+P Labortechnik AG ("H+P"), a Germany-based manufacturer of clean air and containment facilities for hospitals, pharmaceutical, research, education, and general industrial applications, for $9.4 million. H+P had 2003 revenues of $14.6 million. The purchase price exceeded the fair value of the acquired net assets and, accordingly, $0.1 million was allocated to goodwill. In September 2004, we acquired Medical Air Technology Ltd. ("MAT"), a U.K.-based manufacturer of steam sterilizers, magnetic stirrers, and biosafe waste water sterilizers for the pharmaceutical, biotech, academic, and medical markets, for $12.7 million. MAT had 2003 revenues of $14.1 million. The purchase price exceeded the fair value of the acquired net assets and, accordingly, $7.5 million was allocated to goodwill. The components of the preliminary purchase price allocation for H+P and MAT are as follows as of December 31, 2004 (in thousands): < F-14
> Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestiture (continued) Trademarks have an indefinite life and are not amortized. Patents are being amortized over 5-8 years and other intangible assets are being amortized over 3-5 years. In addition to the acquisitions discussed above, in March 2004, we acquired a product line of protein crystallization lab automation equipment for $0.4 million. Revenues and assets of the product line were not material. Pro forma results are not presented as our results in 2004 would not have differed materially had the acquisitions occurred at the beginning of 2004. In November 2004, we sold the Carr BioProcessing product line for $3.2 million and recorded a pre-tax loss on the sale of $5.6 million which is included in special charges and other costs (income). Carr's revenues in 2004, through the date of sale, totaled $4.4 million. Note 4. Geographical Information < F-15
> Note 5. Special Charges and Other Costs (Income) We recorded net special charges of $11.6 million in 2004. These net special charges were primarily for a loss on the sale of a non-core product line, impairment of a building held for sale, and restructuring initiatives to consolidate manufacturing and sales facilities and reduce workforce. The purpose of our restructuring initiatives is to improve future profitability, streamline operations, reduce costs, and improve efficiency. We estimate that we will achieve operating cost reductions in 2005 and beyond through reduced employee and manufacturing costs and other facility overhead. The components of the charges have been computed based on actual cash payouts, our estimate of the realizable value of the affected assets and estimated exit costs, including severance and other employee benefits based on existing severance policies and local laws. In 2003, we adopted SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," for all exit and disposal activities entered into after December 31, 2002. The standard requires us to recognize costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan as previously provided for under EITF No. 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)". Examples of costs covered by the standard include lease termination costs and certain employee severance costs that are associated with a restructuring, plant closing or other exit or disposal activities. SFAS No. 146 has impacted the timing of recognition of certain restructuring costs by postponing the cost recognition beyond the plan commitment date. Impairments of long-lived assets, including amortizable intangibles, which represent non-cash asset write-downs, are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." Typically, these non-cash asset write-downs arise from business restructuring decisions that lead to the disposition of assets no longer required in the restructured business. For these situations, we recognize a loss when the carrying amount of an asset exceeds the sum of the cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Realization values for assets subject to impairment testing are determined primarily by management, taking into consideration various factors including third-party appraisals, quoted market prices or previous experience. If an asset remains in service at the decision date, the asset is written down to its fair value and the resulting net book value is depreciated over its remaining economic useful life. When we commit to a plan to sell an asset, including the initiation of a plan to locate a buyer and it is probable that the asset will be sold within one year based on its current condition and sales price, depreciation of the asset is discontinued and the asset is determined to be an asset held for sale. Upon the completion of a sale of a long-lived asset that was previously written down to net realizable value as part of a restructuring initiative, we recognize any gain on its sale as a reduction of special charges, to the extent of the previous write-down. At December 31, 2004, a total of $0.3 million of restructuring liabilities remained on the combined balance sheet as shown below. We anticipate that the liabilities related to restructuring actions will be paid within one year from the period in which the action was initiated. The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual activity from December 31, 2003 through March 31, 2005 (in thousands): < F-16
> Note 5. Special Charges and Other Costs (Income) (continued) The 2004 charges include $2.6 million of employee termination costs and $1.1 million of facility consolidation costs for a site in Connecticut that relocated to North Carolina. The 2004 special charges also include a $2.5 million writedown to estimated disposal value of the Connecticut facility and a $5.4 million net loss on the sale of assets, principally our Carr BioProcessing product line, which we sold for $3.2 million in November 2004. Note 6. Inventories Inventories include material, labor, and factory overhead costs and are reduced, when necessary, to estimated realizable values. All inventories are valued using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method. Note 7. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We account for goodwill and other intangible assets acquired through business combinations in accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No. 141 clarifies the criteria in recognizing other intangible assets separately from goodwill in a business combination. SFAS No. 142 states goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are reviewed for impairment annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise). Separable intangible assets that are not determined to have an indefinite life are amortized over their useful lives and assessed for impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets". < F-17
> Note 7. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (continued) The following table reflects the goodwill and intangible assets as of December 31, 2003 and the activity thereafter through December 31, 2004 (in thousands): The decrease in goodwill that occurred in the first quarter of 2005 was due to currency translation. The decrease in intangible assets that occurred in the first quarter of 2005 was due to currency translation and amortization. Consistent with the requirements of SFAS No. 142, the fair value of the company was based on discounted cash flow projections that are believed to be reasonable under current and forecasted circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of the reported net assets. Other considerations are also incorporated, including comparable industry price multiples. We consider estimates and judgments that affect the future cash flow projections including principal methods of competition such as volume, price, service, product performance, and technical innovations as well as estimates associated with cost improvement initiatives, capacity utilization, and assumptions for inflation and foreign currency changes. Any significant change in market conditions and estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. < F-18
> Note 8. Employee Benefit Plans Stock-Based Compensation Plans Under the parent's stock compensation plan, options to purchase the parent's common stock may be granted to our key employees in the form of incentive stock options or nonqualified stock options, vest ratably over three years and expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. The option price per share may be no less than the fair market value of the parent's common stock on the date of grant. Upon exercise, the employee has the option to surrender previously owned shares at current value in payment of the exercise price and /or withholding tax obligations, and, subject to certain restrictions, may receive a reload option having an exercise price equal to the current market value for the number of shares so surrendered. The reload option expires at the same time that the exercised option would have expired. The following table shows stock option activity for our employees from December 31, 2003 through December 31, 2004: Restricted stock or restricted stock units may be granted to certain eligible employees in accordance with applicable equity compensation plan documents and agreements. Subject to participants' continued employment and other plan terms and conditions, the restrictions lapse and units vest over three years. The 2004 grants vest ratably. Upon vesting, the restricted stock units are converted into shares of the parent's common stock and are free of any restrictions. In 2004, the parent issued 31,000 of restricted stock units to certain of our business leaders and other employees. Expense for restricted stock and restricted sock units is recognized over the vesting period in accordance with APB No. 25. Compensation expense associated with restricted stock unit awards totaled $0.4 million in 2004. < F-19
> Note 8. Employee Benefit Plans (continued) Defined Contribution Retirement Plans Under the parent's 401(k) savings plan eligible U.S. employees may voluntarily contribute up to 50% of their compensation into the plan and the parent matches a portion of the participating employees' contributions. The matching contributions are made in newly issued shares of the parent's common stock and are issued at the prevailing market price. The matching contributions vest with the employee immediately upon the date of the match and there are no restrictions on the resale of common stock held by employees. Under the plan, the parent contributed 16,000 shares of its common stock to employee accounts in 2004. Compensation expense is recorded based upon the market value of the shares as the shares are contributed to employee accounts. We recorded $0.9 million in 2004 as compensation expense related to the matching contribution. Defined Benefit Pension Plans We have defined benefit pension plans in Germany covering employees there. The plans are unfunded, as permitted under the plans and applicable laws. Net periodic benefit costs for the plans in aggregate included the following components (in thousands): < F-20
> Note 8. Employee Benefit Plans (continued) Our defined benefit plans have projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. The aggregate accumulated benefit obligations were $20.4 million at year-end 2004. The measurement date used to determine benefit information was December 31 for all plan assets and benefit obligations. The weighted average rates used to determine the net periodic benefit costs and benefit obligations were as follows: < F-26
>

Exhibit 99.5 THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements ----------------------------------------------------------- On May 9, 2005, Thermo Electron Corporation (the "company") acquired the stock of certain businesses and assets that collectively comprise the Kendro Laboratory Products ("Kendro") division of SPX Corporation. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been prepared to give effect to the completed acquisition, which was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of April 2, 2005, and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the three months ended April 2, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004, are presented herein. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet gives effect to the acquisition as if it had been completed on April 2, 2005, and combines the unaudited condensed balance sheets of the company and Kendro. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the three months ended April 2, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004 combines the historical results of the company and Kendro and gives effect to the acquisition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2004. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements presented are based on the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are presented for illustrative purposes and do not purport to represent what the financial position or results of operations would actually have been if the events described above occurred as of the dates indicated or what such financial position or results would be for any future periods. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, and the accompanying notes, are based upon the respective historical consolidated and combined financial statements of the company and Kendro, and should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and related notes of the company contained in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2005, and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, as well as the historical combined financial statements and related notes of Kendro, which are attached as Exhibit 99.4 to the company's Current Report on Form 8-K/A (Amendment No. 1) filed on July 22, 2005.
THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet April 2, 2005 (In thousands) < 4
> THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income Year Ended December 31, 2004 (In thousands except per share amounts) < 5
> THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements 1. Basis of Presentation The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet was prepared using the historical balance sheet of the company as of April 2, 2005, and Kendro as of March 31, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income were prepared using the historical statements of income of the company for the three months ended April 2, 2005, and for the year ended December 31, 2004, and of Kendro for the three months ended March 31, 2005, and for the year ended December 31, 2004. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2004, was adjusted to exclude the operating results of Kendro's Carr BioProcessing ("BioProcessing") product line, which was sold by Kendro in November 2004. 2. Acquisition Financing The purchase price for Kendro was $833.5 million in cash, net of cash acquired, subject to a post-closing adjustment. The company initially funded the purchase price for the acquisition with cash on hand and $570 million in proceeds under a 364-day senior unsecured revolving credit facility. Subsequently, the company paid down $61 million of the revolving credit facility with cash. The company refinanced the remaining balance of the revolving credit facility using a combination of short- and long-term debt instruments. As of July 6, 2005, the debt instruments in place to finance the acquisition consisted of $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5% Senior Notes due 2015, $80 million of short-term money market loans and $179 million of short-term borrowings under a revolving credit facility in Europe. 3. Purchase Price Allocation The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements reflect a purchase price of $833.5 million, net of cash acquired, plus $3.75 million of estimated transaction costs. The purchase price is subject to a post-closing balance sheet adjustment. The cash paid to SPX for Kendro initially consisted of $833.5 million plus $8.7 million for bank cash balances at the closing date. At that date, Kendro had a book cash balance of $2.6 million, reflecting checks written immediately prior to the closing. The difference between the bank cash and book cash at the acquisition date will be reimbursed to the company through the post-closing adjustment process. The allocation of the purchase price was based on estimates of the fair value of the net assets acquired and is subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price allocation. The Company is in the process of obtaining real estate appraisals for owned facilities. Adjustments to the fair value of Kendro's fixed assets could result. The company is evaluating potential restructuring actions that may be undertaken at Kendro or within existing businesses with which Kendro is being integrated. Such actions may include rationalizing product lines, consolidation of facilities and reductions in staffing levels. The company will record the cost of restructuring actions at Kendro as an increase to goodwill when decisions are made as to the extent of such actions. Costs of restructuring actions at existing businesses will be recorded to expense. The company expects to finalize its restructuring plan no later than one year following completion of the Kendro acquisition. < 6
> THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION 3. Purchase Price Allocation (continued) The components of the preliminary purchase price allocation are as follows (in thousands): Differences between the above allocation and the March 31, 2005 combined condensed pro forma balance sheet reflect changes in Kendro's balance sheet between March 31, 2005 and May 9, 2005. Acquired intangible assets are as follows (in thousands): 4. Pro Forma Adjustments The following pro forma adjustments are based on preliminary estimates, which may change as additional information is obtained: (A) To record the cash paid for the acquisition and to record the related estimated decrease in interest income earned. (B) To record the $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5% Senior Notes due 2015, the $80 million of short-term money market loans, the $179 million of short-term borrowings under a revolving credit facility in Europe and related interest expense. (C) To eliminate Kendro's existing goodwill and intangible assets, and amortization of the intangible assets. (D) To record goodwill and acquired intangible assets, and amortization of the intangible assets. (E) To eliminate the loss recorded by Kendro on its sale of the BioProcessing product line. (F) To adjust Kendro's inventory to fair value. The cost of sales impact of the write-up of inventory to fair value has been excluded as it is a non-recurring item. (G) To remove intercompany balances receivable from or payable to Kendro's parent company that were excluded as part of the purchase agreement, and related interest income and expense. < 7
> THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION 4. Pro Forma Adjustments (continued) (H) To remove the net book value of the BioProcessing facility land and building that were not included in the acquisition and to remove the depreciation expense recorded for this facility through April 2004. Subsequent to April 2004, this facility was held for sale by Kendro and, as a result, was no longer depreciated and was classified as a current asset. (I) To adjust Kendro's property, plant and equipment to fair value and record the related depreciation. (J) To record deferred tax liabilities related to identified intangible assets and inventory adjustments, where required. (K) To remove the historical equity accounts of Kendro. (L) To record a tax provision on the income earned by Kendro's U.S. operations which operated substantially within a partnership structure, and accordingly, were not subject to income taxes and to record a tax benefit on pro forma adjustments to income. < 8
>


