FILE:TMO/TMO-8K-20060508151509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 MAY 7, 2006 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-8002 04-2209186 (State or other (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer jurisdiction of Identification No.) incorporation) 81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046 02454-9046 Waltham, Massachusetts (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (781) 622-1000 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |X| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS. On May 8, 2006, Thermo Electron Corporation ("Thermo Electron") and Fisher Scientific International Inc. ("Fisher Scientific") issued a joint press release announcing the execution of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 7, 2006, between Thermo Electron, Trumpet Merger Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Thermo Electron, and Fisher Scientific. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein. Additionally, Thermo Electron hereby files the Investor Presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THIS TRANSACTION In connection with the proposed merger, Thermo Electron will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement of Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific that also constitutes a prospectus of Thermo Electron. Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific will mail the joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective stockholders. Investors and security holders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger when it becomes available because it will contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus (when available) and other related documents filed by Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The joint proxy statement/prospectus (when it is available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Thermo Electron's website at http://www.thermo.com under the heading "About Thermo" and then under the heading "Investors" or by accessing Fisher Scientific's website at http://www.fisherscientific.com under the tab "Investor Info." Thermo Electron, Fisher Scientific and their respective directors and executive officers may be soliciting proxies from stockholders in favor of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the stockholders in connection with the proposed merger will be set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus when it is filed with the SEC. You can find information about Thermo Electron's executive officers and directors in Thermo Electron's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 11, 2006. You can find information about Fisher Scientific's executive officers and directors in their definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 6, 2006. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Thermo Electron or Fisher Scientific using the contact information above. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Information set forth in this press release contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-
looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific, including future financial and operating results, the new company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements are set forth in Thermo Electron's and Fisher Scientific's filings with the SEC, including their respective Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006. These include risks and uncertainties relating to: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; the need to develop new products and adapt to significant technological change; implementation of strategies for improving internal growth; use and protection of intellectual property; dependence on customers' capital spending policies and government funding policies; realization of potential future savings from new productivity initiatives; dependence on customers that operate in cyclical industries; general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties; the effect of changes in governmental regulations; exposure to product liability claims in excess of insurance coverage; and the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on international operations. The parties undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (d) Exhibits The following exhibits are filed herewith: EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT 99.1 Press release issued jointly by Thermo Electron Corporation and Fisher Scientific International Inc., dated May 8, 2006 99.2 Investor Presentation of Thermo Electron Corporation and Fisher Scientific International Inc., dated May 8, 2006
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, on this 8th day of May, 2006. THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION By: /s/ Seth H. Hoogasian --------------------------------------- Name: Seth H. Hoogasian Title: Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT 99.1 Press release issued jointly by Thermo Electron Corporation and Fisher Scientific International Inc., dated May 8, 2006 99.2 Investor Presentation of Thermo Electron Corporation and Fisher Scientific International Inc., dated May 8, 2006

[THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION LOGO] [FISHER SCIENTIFIC INTERNATIONAL LOGO] NEWS RELEASE CONTACT INFORMATION THERMO ELECTRON FISHER SCIENTIFIC Media Contact: Media Contact: Lori Gorski Gia L. Oei Phone: 781-622-1242 Phone: 603-929-2489 E-mail: lori.gorski@thermo.com Email: Gia.Oei@fishersci.com Investor Contact: Investor Contact: Kenneth J. Apicerno Chet Mehta Phone: 781-622-1111 Phone: 603-929-2260 E-mail: ken.apicerno@thermo.com Email: Chet.Mehta@fishersci.com THERMO ELECTRON AND FISHER SCIENTIFIC TO COMBINE IN INDUSTRY-TRANSFORMING TRANSACTION o COMBINATION CREATES LEADING PROVIDER OF LABORATORY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IN THE LIFE, LABORATORY AND HEALTH SCIENCES INDUSTRY o ACCELERATES REVENUE GROWTH AND EXPECTED TO RESULT IN A 20 PERCENT COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE IN ADJUSTED EPS OVER THREE YEARS o GENERATES $200 MILLION IN SYNERGIES o TRANSACTION EXPECTED TO BE APPROXIMATELY 18 PERCENT ACCRETIVE TO THERMO'S 2007 CONSENSUS ADJUSTED EPS o COMBINED COMPANY EXPECTED TO HAVE MORE THAN $9 BILLION IN REVENUES AND $1 BILLION IN CASH FLOW IN 2007 WALTHAM, MASS. AND HAMPTON, N.H., MAY 8, 2006 - Thermo Electron Corporation (NYSE: TMO) and Fisher Scientific International Inc. (NYSE: FSH) announced today that the boards of directors of both companies have unanimously approved a definitive agreement to combine the two companies in a tax-free, stock-for-stock exchange. The transforming merger will create the leading provider of laboratory products and services in the high-growth life, laboratory and health sciences industry. The new company will be named Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and is expected to have 2007 revenues of more than $9 billion. Thermo and Fisher have complementary technology leadership in instrumentation, life science consumables, software and services. By combining these capabilities, the company will be uniquely positioned to provide integrated, end-to-end technical solutions. Thermo Fisher Scientific will have an industry leading global sales and service organization with nearly 7,500 professionals serving its customers worldwide. Page 1 of 6
Under the terms of the agreement, Fisher shareholders will receive 2.00 shares of Thermo common stock for each share of Fisher common stock they own. Based on Thermo's closing price of $39.45 per share on May 5, 2006, this represents a value of $78.90 per Fisher share, or an aggregate equity value of $10.6 billion, not including net debt of $2.2 billion. Upon completion of the transaction, Thermo's shareholders would own approximately 39 percent of the combined company, and Fisher shareholders would own approximately 61 percent. The transaction will be treated as a reverse merger with Thermo as the acquirer. Marijn E. Dekkers, president and chief executive officer of Thermo, will become president and chief executive officer of the combined company, and Paul M. Meister, vice chairman of the board for Fisher, will become chairman of the board of the combined company. Following the close of the transaction, Paul M. Montrone, chairman and chief executive officer of Fisher, will be stepping aside in support of the new management team. He will be concentrating on launching new business opportunities and will remain an adviser to the company. Jim P. Manzi, chairman of the board of Thermo, will serve on the board of directors of the combined company. Thermo Fisher Scientific's board of directors will be comprised of eight members, with five nominated by Thermo and three nominated by Fisher. "This combination brings together two well-respected industry leaders in the life, laboratory and health sciences marketplace to create a company that has the product breadth, global reach and operational expertise to drive significant value for shareholders, customers and employees," said Dekkers. "Both Thermo and Fisher have strong track records of acquisition success and margin expansion. By combining our companies' complementary world-class product and service offerings with Fisher's unparalleled customer access, we expect to accelerate growth by further penetrating our vast customer base. Our customers will benefit from a partnership that can provide integrated, end-to-end application solutions to reduce their costs and increase efficiency. Our companies and employees share a strong commitment to our customers, and I am pleased to bring the talented employees of these two great companies together." "For more than 100 years, Fisher has played an important role in aiding scientific discovery. Our focus on supplying innovative product and service solutions has enabled our 350,000 customers to concentrate on what they do best - -- improving health and extending life. Thermo has an equally solid record, and the combined company will be well-positioned to deliver accelerated earnings growth for shareholders," said Montrone. Meister added, "This is a great transaction that provides Fisher shareholders with enhanced value both today and over the long-term. The upside potential we see as a result of our combination is compelling. By leveraging the operating expertise at both companies, we anticipate realizing the strategic and financial benefits of this transaction quickly and efficiently." BENEFITS OF THE TRANSACTION STRATEGIC COMBINATION. The merger creates the world's only provider of fully integrated, end-to-end solutions in the life, laboratory and health sciences industry. Page 2 of 6
ACCRETIVE TO EARNINGS. Thermo expects 2007 adjusted earnings per share of the combined company to be in the range of $2.27 to $2.37, reflecting accretion of approximately 18 percent to Thermo's consensus 2007 adjusted EPS. ACCELERATES REVENUE AND EARNINGS GROWTH. The merger accelerates revenue growth and is expected to result in a 20 percent compound annual growth rate in adjusted EPS over three years. $200 MILLION OF SYNERGIES. The transaction is expected to generate $200 million of cost and revenue-related synergies in three years. 2007 synergies are expected to be at least $75 million. o $150 million of cost-related synergies, excluding one-time costs, are expected to result primarily from manufacturing rationalization, sourcing and logistics efficiencies, and shared administrative functions. o $50 million of revenue-related synergies are expected to result from cross-selling opportunities, enhanced geographic reach, penetration of new and existing markets, and new solutions development. STRONG CASH FLOW AND FINANCIAL FLEXIBILITY. Operating cash flow is expected to be in excess of $1 billion in 2007. With its solid balance sheet and strong cash flow, the combined company will be well-positioned to accelerate growth both organically and through acquisitions. In addition, the Thermo Electron board has increased the current authorization of its buyback program to $300 million. TALENTED EMPLOYEE BASE. Both Thermo and Fisher have exceptional teams of talented and experienced employees. This combination of industry leaders is expected to benefit customers and suppliers, and provide greater opportunities for the 30,000 employees of the combined company. Thermo Fisher Scientific will be headquartered in Waltham, Mass., and will continue to have an office in Hampton, N.H. APPROVALS AND TIME TO CLOSE The transaction is subject to approval by both companies' shareholders as well as customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2006. ADVISERS In connection with the transaction, Lehman Brothers and Rothschild Inc. are acting as financial advisers to Thermo, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is legal counsel. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Lazard Freres & Co. LLC are acting as financial advisers to Fisher, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is legal counsel. Page 3 of 6
Thermo and Fisher will host a conference call and webcast with investment analysts and shareholders at 10 a.m. EDT today to provide more information on this announcement and respond to questions. The webcast and accompanying slides can be accessed at www.thermo.com and www.fisherscientific.com. An audio archive of the call will be available on both companies' Web sites. Conference Call Dial-in: 888-823-7459 Domestic 973-935-2986 International Passcode: 7369609 Replay Dial-in: 877-519-4471 Domestic 973-341-3080 International Passcode: 7369609 ABOUT FISHER SCIENTIFIC Fisher Scientific International Inc. (NYSE: FSH) is a leading provider of products and services to the scientific community. Fisher facilitates discovery by supplying researchers and clinicians in labs around the world with the tools they need. We serve pharmaceutical and biotech companies; colleges and universities; medical-research institutions; hospitals; reference, quality-control, process-control and R&D labs in various industries; as well as government agencies. From biochemicals, cell-culture media and proprietary RNAi technology to rapid-diagnostic tests, safety products and other consumable supplies, Fisher provides more than 600,000 products and services. This broad offering, combined with Fisher's globally integrated supply chain and unmatched sales and marketing capabilities, helps make our 350,000 customers more efficient and effective at what they do. Founded in 1902, Fisher Scientific is a FORTUNE 500 company and is a component of the S&P 500 Index. With approximately 19,500 employees worldwide, the company had revenues of $5.6 billion in 2005. Fisher Scientific is a company committed to delivering on our promises -- to customers, shareholders and employees alike. Additional information about Fisher is available on the company's Web site at www.fisherscientific.com. ABOUT THERMO ELECTRON Thermo Electron Corporation is the world leader in analytical instruments. Our instrument solutions enable our customers to make the world a healthier, cleaner and safer place. Thermo's Life and Laboratory Sciences segment provides analytical instruments, scientific equipment, services and software solutions for life science, drug discovery, clinical, environmental and industrial laboratories. Thermo's Measurement and Control segment is dedicated to providing analytical instruments used in a variety of manufacturing processes and in-the-field applications, including those associated with safety and homeland security. For more information, visit http://www.thermo.com. Page 4 of 6
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Information set forth in this press release contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific, including future financial and operating results, the new company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements are set forth in Thermo Electron's and Fisher Scientific's filings with the SEC, including their respective Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006. These include risks and uncertainties relating to: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; the need to develop new products and adapt to significant technological change; implementation of strategies for improving internal growth; use and protection of intellectual property; dependence on customers' capital spending policies and government funding policies; realization of potential future savings from new productivity initiatives; dependence on customers that operate in cyclical industries; general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties; the effect of changes in governmental regulations; exposure to product liability claims in excess of insurance coverage; and the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on international operations. The parties undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES In addition to the financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we use the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted EPS". Adjusted EPS excludes restructuring and other costs/income and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, certain other gains and losses, tax provisions/benefits related to the gains and losses, benefits from tax credit carryforwards, the impact of significant tax audits or events and discontinued operations. We exclude the above items because they are outside of our normal operations and/or, in certain cases, are difficult to forecast accurately for future periods. We believe that the use of non-GAAP measures helps investors to gain a better understanding of our core operating results and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts our performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or forecasts. Page 5 of 6
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THIS TRANSACTION In connection with the proposed merger, Thermo Electron will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement of Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific that also constitutes a prospectus of Thermo Electron. Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific will mail the joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective stockholders. Investors and security holders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger when it becomes available because it will contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus (when available) and other related documents filed by Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific with the SEC at the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov. The joint proxy statement/prospectus (when it is available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Thermo Electron's Web site at http://www.thermo.com under the heading "About Thermo" and then under the heading "Investors" or by accessing Fisher Scientific's Web site at http://www.fisherscientific.com under the tab "Investor Info." Thermo Electron, Fisher Scientific and their respective directors and executive officers may be soliciting proxies from stockholders in favor of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the stockholders in connection with the proposed merger will be set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus when it is filed with the SEC. You can find information about Thermo Electron's executive officers and directors in Thermo Electron's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 11, 2006. You can find information about Fisher Scientific's executive officers and directors in their definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 6, 2006. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Thermo Electron or Fisher Scientific using the contact information above. # # # Page 6 of 6

Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.
Creating the Global Leader in the Life, Laboratory and Health Sciences Industry
May 8, 2006
 
Joint Safe Harbor Statement
Forward-Looking Statements
Various remarks that we may make about the new company's future expectations, plans and prospects constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Re-form Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information.  Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific, including future financial and operating results, the new company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements are set forth in Thermo Electron's and Fisher Scientific's filings with the SEC, including their respective Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006.  These include risks and uncertainties relating to: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; the need to develop new products and adapt to significant techno-logical change; implementation of strategies for improving internal growth; use and protection of intellectual property; dependence on customers' capital spending policies and government funding policies; realization of potential future savings from new productivity initiatives; dependence on customers that operate in cyclical industries; general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties; the effect of changes in governmental regulations; exposure to product liability claims in excess of insurance coverage; and the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on international operations.  The parties undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to the financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we refer to certain financial measures not prepared in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted EPS and adjusted operating income, which exclude restructuring and other costs/income and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.   Adjusted EPS also excludes certain other gains and losses, tax provisions/benefits related to the previous items, benefits from tax credit carryforwards, the impact of significant tax audits or events and discontinued operations.  We exclude the above items because they are outside of our normal operations and/or, in certain cases, are difficult to forecast accurately for future periods.  We believe that the use of non-GAAP measures helps investors to gain a better understanding of our core operating results and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts our performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or fore-casts.
Additional Information About this Transaction
In connection with the proposed merger, Thermo Electron will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement of Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific that also constitutes a prospectus of Thermo Electron.  Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific will mail the joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective stockholders.  Investors and security holders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger when it becomes available because it will contain important information.  You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus (when available) and other related documents filed by Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.  The joint proxy statement/prospectus (when it is available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Thermo Electron's website at http://www.thermo.com under the heading "About Thermo" and then under the heading "Investors" or by accessing Fisher Scientific's website at http://www.fisherscientific.com under the tab "Investor Info."
Thermo Electron, Fisher Scientific and their respective directors and executive officers may be soliciting proxies from stockholders in favor of the merger.  Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the stockholders in connection with the proposed merger will be set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus when it is filed with the SEC.  You can find information about Thermo Electron's executive officers and directors in Thermo Electron's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 11, 2006.  You can find information about Fisher Scientific's executive officers and directors in their definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 6, 2006.  You can obtain free copies of these documents from the Thermo Electron or Fisher Scientific using the contact information above.
2
 
Combination of Industry Leaders
Accelerates Earnings Growth
  Industry transforming
  Exciting growth opportunities
  World-class capabilities
  Compelling financial benefits
3
 
Transforming Our Industry
Only End-to-End Solutions Provider
Industry Dynamics
Thermo Fisher Solutions
  Accelerating Drug Discovery
  Pressure to Reduce Costs
  Globalization
  Regulatory Complexity
  Broad Product Offering
  Extensive Suite of Services
  Integrated Solutions
  Global Capabilities
4
 
Exciting Growth Opportunities
Expanded market access
Expanded products and services offering
Acquisition opportunities
Tremendous Upside for Shareholders
5
 
World Class Capabilities
Experienced management team
Unparalleled sales and marketing footprint
Extensive R&D capabilities
Global scale
Demonstrated shareholder value creation
Proven Track Record of Success
6
 
Compelling Financial Benefits
Tremendous Upside for Shareholders
   20%+ compound growth in adjusted EPS
   18% accretive to 2007 adjusted EPS
   $200 million of synergies
   Over $1 billion of operating cash flow
7
 
Transforming Our Company  Strong Strategic Fit
Complete tool set of customer solutions
Expands reach into high-growth markets and geographies
Unparalleled customer access
Complementary world-class technologies
Opportunity to enhance integrated laboratory workflow solutions
Extensive offering of laboratory support services
Driving Growth at All Levels
8
 
Transforming Relationships With Customers
Leading Laboratory Provider
Key Strategic Capabilities
Pre-eminent product brands
Brand Equity
150 years of combined experience
Proven management team
Experience
Broad product & service offering
Global capabilities
World class technologies
Capabilities
$9bn revenues
350,000 customers
150 countries
Scale
Software & Services
Consumables
Instrumentation
Positioned for Growth
16%
28%
56%
9
 
Attractive High Growth Markets
Note:  2005A pro forma revenues; prior to inter-company sales.
Industrial/
Environmental
Life Science
Healthcare
Attractive Growth Opportunities
Customer Base
Exciting Growth Opportunities
36%
19%
45%
  Drug Discovery
  Proteomics Research
  Pharma Services
  Molecular Diagnostics
  Immunohistochemistry
  Environmental Regulatory               
   Compliance
10
 
Integrated Workflows
Laboratory Services
Automation
Consumables/Reagents
Sample
Preparation
Sample
Analysis
Data
Interpretation
& Storage
Combination Enhances Workflow Capabilities
11
 
Integrated Laboratory Workflow Solutions
Data
Interpretation & Storage
Sample
Preparation
Sample
Analysis
Complementary Reagents & Consumables
Xcalibur
Biomarker Research Application
Cells or Tissue
Biomarker Identified
Fisher
Thermo
12
 
World Class Portfolio of Services
Positioned to Capitalize on Increased Services Demand
Laboratory Services
Asset management
Regulatory compliance and validation
Equipment maintenance and applications  
  development
Biopharma Services
  Managed R&D services
  Clinical trial materials management
  Biological specimen management
  Diagnostic product formulation
13
 
Global Leadership
___________________________
Note:  2005A pro forma revenues; prior to inter-company sales.
North America
Asia / ROW
Europe
Unmatched Global Capabilities
Focus on Asian Emerging Markets
Enhanced Presence in Key Geographies
25%
66%
9%
  Strong presence in China
       -  Manufacturing capabilities
       -  State-of-the-art demo lab
       -  Over 800 employees
  Active sourcing network
  Extensive commercial capabilities
       -  Direct sales/services
       -  Key account focus
  Clinical trials support in India
14
 
Unparalleled Customer Access
7,500 Sales Representatives
1,500 Field Service Reps
2,900 Sales Generalists
1,100 Application Specialists
2,000 Customer Service Reps
Superior Capabilities to Accelerate Growth
  350,000 Customers Served
  150 Countries Served
  Leading Brand Names
  Superior e-Commerce Platform
15
 
Revenue Upside Opportunities
Integrated Solutions
Life Science Research / Healthcare Convergence
Emerging Markets
Industry Leadership Driving Upside Growth
16
 
$200 Million of Synergies
$150 Million Cost Savings
Rationalize manufacturing operations
Leverage combined purchasing power
Consolidate administrative activities
$50 Million Revenue Opportunities
Cross-selling
Enhanced geographic reach
Penetration of new and existing markets
New solutions development
At least $75 Million in 2007
17
 
Transaction Overview
18
 
Transaction Terms
Fourth Quarter of 2006
Timing:
Waltham, Massachusetts
Shareholders and Regulatory
        
Headquarters:
Customary Approvals:
Chief Executive Officer: Marijn Dekkers
Management:
Chairman of the Board: Paul Meister
Thermo: 5 Directors
Fisher: 3 Directors
Board Composition:
Thermo:
              
39%
Fisher:
                  
61%
Pro Forma Ownership:
2.00 Thermo shares for each Fisher share
Purchase Consideration:
19
 
Combined Financial Strength
$2.27 - $2.37
Adjusted EPS
(including FAS 123R)
Over $1 billion
$1.5 - $1.6 billion
17%
$9.2 - $9.3 billion
2007
Operating Cash Flow
Adjusted Operating Income
% Margin
Revenue
___________________________
Note:  Revenues exclude inter-company sales.
Note:  Adjusted results are Non-GAAP measures and exclude amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, restructuring and other costs. In addition to the financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we refer to certain financial measures not prepared in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted EPS and adjusted operating income, which exclude restructuring and other costs/income and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.  Adjusted EPS also excludes certain other gains and losses, tax provisions/benefits related to the previous items, benefits from tax credit carryforwards, the impact of significant tax audits or events and discontinued operations.  We exclude the above items because they are outside of our normal operations and/or, in certain cases, are difficult to forecast accurately for future periods.  We believe that the use of non-GAAP measures helps investors to gain a better understanding of our core operating results and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts our performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or forecasts.
20
 
Longer-term Financial Goals
18  20%
Adjusted EPS Growth
19  20%
6 - 8%
Adjusted Operating Margin
Organic Revenue Growth
Tremendous Upside for Shareholders
21
 
The New Thermo Fisher Scientific
Delivering Enhanced Shareholder Value
  Combination of complementary industry leaders
  Strong track records
  Compelling financial benefits
22
 
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.
Creating the Global Leader in the Life, Laboratory and Health Sciences Industry
May 8, 2006


