FILE:TMO/TMO-8K-20080522102831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
New Equity Compensation Plan
     At Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.'s (the "Company") annual meeting of stockholders on May 20, 2008, the stockholders approved the 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2008 Stock Plan"). The Company's Board of Directors had previously adopted the 2008 Stock Plan, subject to stockholder approval. The 2008 Stock Plan, which is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee"), permits us to grant to our employees awards based on shares of our common stock, including stock options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards. Subject to adjustment in the event of changes in capitalization, the maximum number of shares of our common stock that may be issued under the 2008 Stock Plan is 25,000,000, and the maximum number of shares of common stock with respect to which (a) awards other than options and SARs may be granted is 7,000,000, (b) awards may be granted to non-employee directors is 1,200,000 and (c) awards may be granted to any one participant is 2,000,000 per year. The 2008 Stock Plan has a term of ten years.
     For a more detailed description of the 2008 Stock Plan, see Proposal Two of the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 10, 2008. A copy of the 2008 Stock Plan is attached as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement and is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
New Incentive Compensation Plan
     Also on May 20, 2008, at the Company's annual meeting of stockholders, the stockholders approved the 2008 Annual Incentive Award Plan (the "2008 Incentive Plan"). The Company's Board of Directors had previously adopted the 2008 Incentive Plan, subject to stockholder approval. The 2008 Incentive Plan, which is administered by the Compensation Committee, provides for the payment of annual cash incentive compensation for the persons designated as executive officers of the Company, based on the achievement of pre-established performance goals. The 2008 Incentive Plan requires that, no later than ninety days after the beginning of each calendar year, the Compensation Committee (i) select executive officers eligible to participate in the 2008 Incentive Plan for that year; (ii) determine the performance goals that must be achieved in order for awards to be paid under the 2008 Incentive Plan; and (iii) determine the total amount which may be available for payout to eligible employees based upon the relative level of attainment of the selected performance goals. The 2008 Incentive Plan specifies the objective business criteria that the performance goals are required to be based upon. Prior to the payment of awards, the Compensation Committee must certify that the applicable performance goals have been attained. The maximum payment to any eligible employee under the 2008 Incentive Plan for any year will be $5,000,000.
     For a more detailed description of the 2008 Incentive Plan, see Proposal Three of the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and
Table of Contents
Exchange Commission on April 10, 2008. A copy of the 2008 Incentive Plan is attached as Appendix B to the Proxy Statement and is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, on this 22 day of May, 2008.
nd
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
1.     
Purpose
 
The purpose of this 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), is to advance the interests of the Company's stockholders by enhancing the Company's ability to attract, retain and motivate persons who are expected to make important contributions to the Company and by providing such persons with equity ownership opportunities and performance-based incentives that are intended to better align the interests of such persons with those of the Company's stockholders. Except where the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" shall include any of the Company's present or future parent or subsidiary corporations as defined in Sections 424(e) or (f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Code") and any other business venture (including, without limitation, joint venture or limited liability company) in which the Company has a controlling interest.
 
2.     
Eligibility
 
All of the Company's employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors are eligible to be granted options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and other stock-based awards (each, an "Award") under the Plan. Each person who receives an award under the Plan is deemed a "Participant".
 
3.     
Administration and Delegation
 
(a)       The Plan will be administered by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"). The Board shall have authority to grant Awards and to adopt, amend and repeal such administrative rules, guidelines and practices relating to the Plan as it shall deem advisable. The Board may construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and any Award agreements entered into under the Plan. The Board may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency. All decisions by the Board shall be made in the Board's sole discretion and shall be final and binding on all persons having or claiming any interest in the Plan or in any Award. No director or person acting pursuant to the authority delegated by the Board shall be liable for any action or determination relating to or under the Plan made in good faith.
Administration by Board of Directors.
 
(b)       To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Board may delegate any or all of its powers under the Plan to one or more committees or subcommittees of the Board (a "Committee"). All references in the Plan to the "Board" shall mean the Board or a Committee of the Board or the officers referred to in Section 3(c) to the extent that the Board's powers or authority under the Plan have been delegated to such Committee or officers.
Appointment of Committees.
 
(c)       To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Board may delegate to one or more officers of the Company the power to grant Awards (subject to any limitations under the Plan) to employees or officers of the Company and to exercise such other powers under the Plan as the Board may determine, provided that the Board shall fix the terms of the Awards to be granted by such officers (including the exercise price of such Awards, which may include a formula by which the exercise price will be determined) and the maximum number of shares subject to Awards that the officers may grant; provided further, however, that no officer shall be authorized to grant Awards to any "executive officer" of the Company (as defined by under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) or to any "officer" of the Company (as defined by under the Exchange Act).
Delegation to Officers.
Rule 3b-7
Rule 16a-1
 
2
 
4.     
Stock Available for Awards
 
(a)     
Number of Shares; Share Counting.
 
(1)       Subject to adjustment under Section 9, Awards may be made under the Plan for up to 25,000,000 shares of common stock, $1.00 par value per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock"). Shares issued under the Plan may consist in whole or in part of authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares.
Authorized Number of Shares.
 
(2)       For purposes of counting the number of shares available for the grant of Awards under the Plan and under the sublimits contained in Sections 4(b)(2) and 4(b)(3), (i) all shares of Common Stock covered by independent SARs shall be counted against the number of shares available for the grant of Awards; provided, however, that independent SARs that may be settled in cash only shall not be so counted; (ii) if any Award (A) expires or is terminated, surrendered or canceled without having been fully exercised or is forfeited in whole or in part (including as the result of shares of Common Stock subject to such Award being repurchased by the Company at the original issuance price pursuant to a contractual repurchase right) or (B) results in any Common Stock not being issued (including as a result of an independent SAR that was settleable either in cash or in stock actually being settled in cash), the unused Common Stock covered by such Award shall again be available for the grant of Awards; provided, however, in the case of Incentive Stock Options (as hereinafter defined), the foregoing shall be subject to any limitations under the Code; and provided further, in the case of independent SARs, that the full number of shares subject to any stock-settled SAR shall be counted against the shares available under the Plan and against the sublimit set forth in Section 4(b)(2) regardless of the number of shares actually used to settle such SAR upon exercise; (iii) shares of Common Stock delivered to the Company by a Participant to (A) purchase shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of an Award or (B) satisfy tax withholding obligations (including shares retained from the Award creating the tax obligation) shall not be added back to the number of shares available for the future grant of Awards; and (iv) shares of Common Stock repurchased by the Company on the open market using the proceeds from the exercise of an Award shall not increase the number of shares available for future grant of Awards.
Share Counting.
 
(b)       Subject to adjustment under Section 10, the following sub-limits on the number of shares subject to Awards shall apply:
Sub-limits.
 
(1)       The maximum number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted to any Participant under the Plan shall be 2,000,000 per calendar year. For purposes of the foregoing limit, the combination of an Option in tandem with a SAR (as each is hereafter defined) shall be treated as a single Award. The per-Participant limit described in this Section 4(b)(1) shall be construed and applied consistently with Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor provision thereto, and the regulations thereunder ("Section 162(m)").
Section 162(m) Per-Participant Limit.
 
(2)       The maximum number of shares with respect to which Awards other than Options and SARs may be granted shall be 7,000,000.
Limit on Awards other than Options and SARS.
 
(3)       The maximum number of shares with respect to which Awards may be granted to directors who are not employees of the Company at the time of grant shall be 1,200,000.
Limit on Awards to Directors.
 
(c)       In connection with a merger or consolidation of an entity with the Company or the acquisition by the Company of property or stock of an entity, the Board may grant Awards in substitution for any options or other stock or stock-based awards granted by such entity or an affiliate thereof. Substitute Awards may be granted on such terms as the Board deems appropriate in the circumstances, notwithstanding any limitations on Awards contained in the Plan. Substitute Awards shall not count against the overall share limit set forth in Section 4(a)(1) or any sublimits contained in the Plan, except as may be required by reason of Section 422 and related provisions of the Code.
Substitute Awards.
 
5.     
Stock Options
 
(a)       The Board may grant options to purchase Common Stock (each, an "Option") and determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by each Option, the exercise price of each
General.
 
3
 
Option and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of each Option, including conditions relating to applicable federal or state securities laws, as it considers necessary or advisable. An Option that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option (as hereinafter defined) shall be designated a "Nonstatutory Stock Option."
 
(b)       An Option that the Board intends to be an "incentive stock option" as defined in Section 422 of the Code (an "Incentive Stock Option") shall only be granted to employees of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., any of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.'s present or future parent or subsidiary corporations as defined in Sections 424(e) or (f) of the Code, and any other entities the employees of which are eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options under the Code, and shall be subject to and shall be construed consistently with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. The Company shall have no liability to a Participant, or any other party, if an Option (or any part thereof) that is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option is not an Incentive Stock Option or for any action taken by the Board, including without limitation the conversion of an Incentive Stock Option to a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
Incentive Stock Options.
 
(c)       The Board shall establish the exercise price of each Option and specify the exercise price in the applicable option agreement. The exercise price shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value (as defined below) on the date the Option is granted; provided that if the Board approves the grant of an Option with an exercise price to be determined on a future date, the exercise price shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on such future date.
Exercise Price.
 
(d)       Each Option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may specify in the applicable option agreement; provided, however, that no Option will be granted with a term in excess of 10 years.
Duration of Options.
 
(e)       Options may be exercised by delivery to the Company or its designee of a written notice of exercise signed by the proper person or by any other form of notice (including electronic notice) approved by the Company, together with payment in full as specified in Section 5(f) for the number of shares for which the Option is exercised. Shares of Common Stock subject to the Option will be delivered by the Company as soon as practicable following exercise.
Exercise of Option.
 
(f)       Common Stock purchased upon the exercise of an Option granted under the Plan shall be paid for as follows:
Payment Upon Exercise.
 
(1)     in cash or by check, payable to the order of the Company;
 
(2)     except as may otherwise be provided in the applicable option agreement, by (i) delivery of an irrevocable and unconditional undertaking by a creditworthy broker to deliver promptly to the Company sufficient funds to pay the exercise price and any required tax withholding or (ii) delivery by the Participant to the Company of a copy of irrevocable and unconditional instructions to a creditworthy broker to deliver promptly to the Company cash or a check sufficient to pay the exercise price and any required tax withholding;
 
(3)     to the extent provided for in the applicable option agreement or approved by the Board, in its sole discretion, by delivery (either by actual delivery or attestation) of shares of Common Stock owned by the Participant valued at their fair market value as determined by (or in a manner approved by) the Board ("Fair Market Value"), provided (i) such method of payment is then permitted under applicable law, (ii) such Common Stock, if acquired directly from the Company, was owned by the Participant for such minimum period of time, if any, as may be established by the Board in its discretion and (iii) such Common Stock is not subject to any repurchase, forfeiture, unfulfilled vesting or other similar requirements;
 
(4)     to the extent permitted by applicable law and provided for in the applicable option agreement or approved by the Board, in its sole discretion, by (i) delivery of a promissory note of the Participant to the Company on terms determined by the Board, or (ii) payment of such other lawful consideration as the Board may determine; or
 
(5)     by any combination of the above permitted forms of payment.
 
4
 
(g)       Unless such action is approved by the Company's stockholders: (1) no outstanding Option granted under the Plan may be amended to provide an exercise price per share that is lower than the then-current exercise price per share of such outstanding Option (other than adjustments pursuant to Section 9) and (2) the Board may not cancel any outstanding option (whether or not granted under the Plan) and grant in substitution therefore new Awards under the Plan covering the same or a different number of shares of Common Stock and having an exercise price per share lower than the then-current exercise price per share of the cancelled option.
Limitation on Repricing.
 
6.     
Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
(a)       The Board may grant Awards consisting of SARs entitling the holder, upon exercise, to receive an amount of Common Stock or cash or a combination thereof (such form to be determined by the Board) determined in whole or in part by reference to appreciation, from and after the date of grant, in the fair market value of a share of Common Stock over the exercise price established pursuant to Section 6(c). The date as of which such appreciation is determined shall be the exercise date.
General.
 
(b)       SARs may be granted in tandem with, or independently of, Options granted under the Plan.
Grants.
 
(1)       When SARs are expressly granted in tandem with Options, (i) the SAR will be exercisable only at such time or times, and to the extent, that the related Option is exercisable (except to the extent designated by the Board in connection with a Reorganization Event or a Change in Control Event) and will be exercisable in accordance with the procedure required for exercise of the related Option; (ii) the SAR will terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the termination or exercise of the related Option, except to the extent designated by the Board in connection with a Reorganization Event or a Change in Control Event and except that a SAR granted with respect to less than the full number of shares covered by an Option will not be reduced until the number of shares as to which the related Option has been exercised or has terminated exceeds the number of shares not covered by the SAR; (iii) the Option will terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the exercise of the related SAR; and (iv) the SAR will be transferable only with the related Option.
Tandem Awards.
 
(2)       A SAR not expressly granted in tandem with an Option will become exercisable at such time or times, and on such conditions, as the Board may specify in the SAR Award.
Independent SARs.
 
(c)       The Board shall establish the exercise price of each SAR and specify it in the applicable SAR agreement. The exercise price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date the SAR is granted; provided that if the Board approves the grant of a SAR with an exercise price to be determined on a future date, the exercise price shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on such future date.
Exercise Price.
 
(d)       Each SAR shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may specify in the applicable SAR agreement; provided, however, that no SAR will be granted with a term in excess of 10 years.
Duration of SARs.
 
(e)       SARs may be exercised by delivery to the Company or its designee of a written notice of exercise signed by the proper person or by any other form of notice (including electronic notice) approved by the Company, together with any other documents required by the Company.
Exercise of SARs.
 
(f)       Unless such action is approved by the Company's stockholders: (1) no outstanding SAR granted under the Plan may be amended to provide an exercise price per share that is lower than the then-current exercise price per share of such outstanding SAR (other than adjustments pursuant to Section 9) and (2) the Board may not cancel any outstanding SAR (whether or not granted under the Plan) and grant in substitution therefor new Awards under the Plan covering the same or a different number of shares of Common Stock and having an exercise price per share lower than the then-current exercise price per share of the cancelled SAR.
Limitation on Repricing.
 
5
 
7.     
Restricted Stock; Restricted Stock Units.
 
(a)       The Board may grant Awards entitling recipients to acquire shares of Common Stock ("Restricted Stock"), subject to the right of the Company to repurchase all or part of such shares at their issue price or other stated or formula price (or to require forfeiture of such shares if issued at no cost) from the recipient in the event that conditions specified by the Board in the applicable Award are not satisfied prior to the end of the applicable restriction period or periods established by the Board for such Award. Instead of granting Awards for Restricted Stock, the Board may grant Awards entitling the recipient to receive shares of Common Stock or cash to be delivered at the time such Award vests or such later time as may be specified in such Award ("Restricted Stock Units") (Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units are each referred to herein as a "Restricted Stock Award").
General.
 
(b)       The Board shall determine the terms and conditions of a Restricted Stock Award, including the conditions for vesting and repurchase (or forfeiture) and the issue price, if any. Restricted Stock Awards that vest solely based on the passage of time shall be zero percent vested prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant, no more than one-third vested prior to the second anniversary of the date of grant, and no more than two-thirds vested prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant. Restricted Stock Awards that do not vest solely based on the passage of time shall not vest prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant. The two foregoing sentences shall not apply to (1) Performance Awards granted pursuant to Section 10(i) or (2) Restricted Stock Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards granted, in the aggregate, for up to 1,200,000 shares of Common Stock. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan (other than Section 10(i), if applicable), the Board may, in its discretion, either at the time a Restricted Stock Award is made or at any time thereafter, waive its right to repurchase shares of Common Stock (or waive the forfeiture thereof) or remove or modify any part or all of the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock Award, provided that the Board may only exercise such rights in extraordinary circumstances which shall include, without limitation, death, disability, termination of employment (including retirement) of the Participant; or a merger, consolidation, sale, reorganization, recapitalization, or change in control of the Company.
Terms and Conditions for All Restricted Stock Awards.
 
(c)     
Additional Provisions Relating to Restricted Stock.
 
(1)       Participants holding shares of Restricted Stock will be entitled to all ordinary cash dividends paid with respect to such shares, unless otherwise provided by the Board. Unless otherwise provided by the Board, if any dividends or distributions are paid in shares, or consist of a dividend or distribution to holders of Common Stock other than an ordinary cash dividend, the shares, cash or other property will be subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid. Each dividend payment will be made no later than the end of the calendar year in which the dividends are paid to shareholders of that class of stock or, if later, the 15th day of the third month following the date the dividends are paid to shareholders of that class of stock.
Dividends.
 
(2)       The Company may require that any stock certificates issued in respect of shares of Restricted Stock shall be deposited in escrow by the Participant, together with a stock power endorsed in blank, with the Company (or its designee). At the expiration of the applicable restriction periods, the Company (or such designee) shall deliver the certificates no longer subject to such restrictions to the Participant or if the Participant has died, to the beneficiary designated, in a manner determined by the Company, by a Participant to receive amounts due or exercise rights of the Participant in the event of the Participant's death (the "Designated Beneficiary"). In the absence of an effective designation by a Participant, "Designated Beneficiary" shall mean the Participant's estate.
Stock Certificates.
 
(d)     
Additional Provisions Relating to Restricted Stock Units.
 
(1)       Upon the vesting of lapsing of any other restrictions (i.e., settlement) with respect to each Restricted Stock Unit, the Participant shall be entitled to receive from the Company one share of Common Stock or an amount of cash equal to the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock, as provided in the applicable Award agreement. The Board may, in its discretion, provide that
Settlement.
and/or
 
6
 
settlement of Restricted Stock Units shall be deferred, on a mandatory basis or at the election of the Participant.
 
(2)       A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units.
Voting Rights.
 
(3)       To the extent provided by the Board, in its sole discretion, a grant of Restricted Stock Units may provide Participants with the right to receive an amount equal to any dividends or other distributions declared and paid on an equal number of outstanding shares of Common Stock ("Dividend Equivalents"). Dividend Equivalents may be paid currently or credited to an account for the Participants, may be settled in cash shares of Common Stock and may be subject to the same restrictions on transfer and forfeitability as the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which paid, as determined by the Board in its sole discretion, subject in each case to such terms and conditions as the Board shall establish, in each case to be set forth in the applicable Award agreement.
Dividend Equivalents.
and/or
 
(e)       The Board may, at the time any Restricted Stock Award is granted, provide that, at the time Common Stock would otherwise be delivered pursuant to the Award, the Participant shall instead receive an instrument evidencing the right to future delivery of Common Stock at such time or times, and on such conditions, as the Board shall specify.
Deferred Delivery of Shares.
 
8.       
Other Stock-Based Awards.
 
(a)       Other Awards of shares of Common Stock, and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, shares of Common Stock or other property, may be granted hereunder to Participants ("Other Stock-Based-Awards"), including without limitation Awards entitling recipients to receive shares of Common Stock to be delivered in the future. Such Other Stock-Based Awards shall also be available as a form of payment in the settlement of other Awards granted under the Plan or as payment in lieu of compensation to which a Participant is otherwise entitled. Other Stock-Based Awards may be paid in shares of Common Stock or cash, as the Board shall determine.
General.
 
(b)       Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall determine the terms and conditions of each Other Stock-Based Award, including any purchase price applicable thereto. Other Stock-Based Awards that vest solely based on the passage of time shall be zero percent vested prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant, no more than one-third vested prior to the second anniversary of the date of grant, and no more than two-thirds vested prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant. Other Stock-Based Awards that do not vest solely based on the passage of time shall not vest prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant. The two foregoing sentences shall not apply to (1) Performance Awards granted pursuant to Section 10(i) or (2) Restricted Stock Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards granted, in the aggregate, for up to 1,200,000 shares of Common Stock. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan (other than Section 10(i), if applicable), the Board may, in its discretion, either at the time an Other Stock-Based Award is made or at any time thereafter, waive its right to repurchase shares of Common Stock (or waive the forfeiture thereof) or remove or modify any part or all of the restrictions applicable to the Other Stock-Based Award, provided that the Board may only exercise such rights in extraordinary circumstances which shall include, without limitation, death, disability, termination of employment (including retirement) of the Participant; or a merger, consolidation, sale, reorganization, recapitalization, or change in control of the Company.
Terms and Conditions.
 
9.     
Adjustments for Changes in Common Stock and Certain Other Events.
 
(a)       In the event of any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, reclassification of shares, spin-off or other similar change in capitalization or event, or any dividend or distribution to holders of Common Stock other than an ordinary cash dividend, (i) the number and class of securities available under this Plan, (ii) the sub-limits and share counting rules set forth in Sections 4(a), 4(b), 7(b) and 8(b), (iii) the number and class of securities and exercise price per share of each outstanding Option, (iv) the share- and per-share provisions and the exercise price of each SAR, (v) the number of shares subject to and the repurchase price per share subject to each outstanding Restricted Stock Award and (vi) the share- and per-share-related provisions and the purchase price, if any, of each outstanding Other Stock-Based Award, shall be equitably adjusted by the Company (or substituted
Changes in Capitalization.
 
7
 
Awards may be made, if applicable) in the manner determined by the Board. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event the Company effects a split of the Common Stock by means of a stock dividend and the exercise price of and the number of shares subject to an outstanding Option are adjusted as of the date of the distribution of the dividend (rather than as of the record date for such dividend), then an optionee who exercises an Option between the record date and the distribution date for such stock dividend shall be entitled to receive, on the distribution date, the stock dividend with respect to the shares of Common Stock acquired upon such Option exercise, notwithstanding the fact that such shares were not outstanding as of the close of business on the record date for such stock dividend.
 
(b)     
Reorganization and Change in Control Events
 
(1)     Definitions
 
(A)     A "Reorganization Event" shall mean:
 
(i)     any merger or consolidation of the Company with or into another entity as a result of which all of the Common Stock of the Company is converted into or exchanged for the right to receive cash, securities or other property or is cancelled;
 
(ii)     any exchange of all of the Common Stock of the Company for cash, securities or other property pursuant to a share exchange transaction; or
 
(iii)     any complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
(B)     A "Change in Control Event" shall mean:
 
(i)     the acquisition by an individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership of any capital stock of the Company if, after such acquisition, such Person beneficially owns (within the meaning of promulgated under the Exchange Act) 50% or more of either (x) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (y) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control Event: (A) any acquisition directly by the Company, (B) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (C) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a Business Combination (as defined below) which complies with clauses (x) and (y) of subsection (iii) of this definition; or
Rule 13d-3
 
(ii)     such time as the Continuing Directors (as defined below) do not constitute a majority of the Board (or, if applicable, the Board of Directors of a successor corporation to the Company), where the term "Continuing Director" means at any date a member of the Board (x) who was a member of the Board on the date of the initial adoption of this Plan by the Board or (y) who was nominated or elected subsequent to such date by at least a majority of the directors who were Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election or whose election to the Board was recommended or endorsed by at least a majority of the directors who were Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election; provided, however, that there shall be excluded from this clause (y) any individual whose initial assumption of office occurred as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents, by or on behalf of a person other than the Board; or
 
(iii)     the consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization or share exchange involving the Company or a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in one or a series of transactions (a "Business Combination"), unless, immediately following such Business Combination, each of the following two conditions is satisfied: (x) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined
 
8
 
voting power of the then-outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, respectively, of the resulting or acquiring corporation in such Business Combination (which shall include, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) (such resulting or acquiring corporation is referred to herein as the "Acquiring Corporation") in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, respectively, immediately prior to such Business Combination and (y) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) maintained or sponsored by the Company or by the Acquiring Corporation) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Acquiring Corporation, or of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
 
(iv)     the approval by the stockholders of the Company of the complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
(C)     "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in the Participant's employment or other agreement with the Company, provided that if the Participant is not a party to any such employment or other agreement or such employment or other agreement does not contain a definition of Cause, then Cause shall mean:
 
(i)     the willful and continued failure of the Participant to perform substantially the Participant's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant by the Company that specifically identifies the alleged manner in which the Participant has not substantially performed the Participant's duties; or
 
(ii)     the willful engaging by the Participant in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company.
 
For purposes of this definition, no act or failure to act on the part of the Participant shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Participant's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.
 
(D)     "Good Reason" shall have the meaning set forth in the Participant's employment or other agreement with the Company, provided that if the Participant is not a party to any such employment or other agreement or such employment or other agreement does not contain a definition of Good Reason, then Good Reason shall mean the occurrence, on or after a Change in Control Event and without the affected Participant's written consent, of:
 
(i)     the assignment to the Participant of duties in the aggregate that are inconsistent with the Participant's level of responsibility immediately prior to the Change in Control Event (including without limitation, in the case of a Participant who was, immediately prior to the Change in Control Event, an executive officer of the Company, such employee ceasing to be an executive officer of the Company);
 
(ii)     a reduction by the employer in the Participant's annual base salary, annual incentive compensation opportunity, or long term incentive compensation opportunity (including an adverse change in the performance criteria or a decrease in the target amount of annual or long term incentive compensation) from that in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control Event; or
 
(iii)     the relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the Participant's principal place of employment immediately prior to the Change in Control Event, provided, however, such relocation also requires a material change in the Participant's commute.
 
(2)       Upon the occurrence of a Reorganization Event (regardless of whether such event also constitutes a Change in Control Event), or the execution by the Company of any agreement with respect to a Reorganization Event (regardless of whether such event will
Effect of Reorganization Event on Options.
 
9
 
result in a Change in Control Event), the Board shall provide that all outstanding Options shall be assumed, or equivalent options shall be substituted, by the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof). For purposes hereof, an Option shall be considered to be assumed if, following consummation of the Reorganization Event, the Option confers the right to purchase, for each share of Common Stock subject to the Option immediately prior to the consummation of the Reorganization Event, the consideration (whether cash, securities or other property) received as a result of the Reorganization Event by holders of Common Stock for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to the consummation of the Reorganization Event (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock); provided, however, that if the consideration received as a result of the Reorganization Event is not solely common stock of the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof), the Company may, with the consent of the acquiring or succeeding corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of Options to consist solely of common stock of the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof) equivalent in value (as determined by the Board) to the per share consideration received by holders of outstanding shares of Common Stock as a result of the Reorganization Event.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof) does not agree to assume, or substitute for, such Options, or in the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, the Board may take any one or more of the following actions as to all or any (or any portion of) outstanding Options on such terms as the Board determines: (i) upon written notice to a Participant, provide that the Participant's unexercised Options will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such Reorganization Event unless exercised by the Participant within a specified period following the date of such notice, (ii) provide that outstanding Options shall become exercisable, realizable, or deliverable, or restrictions applicable to an Option shall lapse, in whole or in part prior to or upon such Reorganization Event, (iii) in the event of a Reorganization Event under the terms of which holders of Common Stock will receive upon consummation thereof a cash payment for each share surrendered in the Reorganization Event (the "Acquisition Price"), make or provide for a cash payment to a Participant equal to the excess, if any, of (A) the Acquisition Price times the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Participant's Options (if the exercise price does not exceed the Acquisition Price) over (B) the aggregate exercise price of all such outstanding Options and any applicable tax withholdings, in exchange for the termination of such Options, (iv) provide that, in connection with a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, Options shall convert into the right to receive liquidation proceeds (if applicable, net of the exercise price thereof and any applicable tax withholdings) and (v) any combination of the foregoing. In taking any of the actions permitted under this Section 9(b), the Board shall not be obligated by the Plan to treat all Options, all Options held by a Participant, or all Options of the same type, identically. In the event of a Reorganization Event that does not also constitute a Change in Control Event, then to the extent all or any portion of an Option becomes exercisable solely as a result of the first sentence of this paragraph, upon exercise of such Option the Participant shall receive shares subject to a right of repurchase by the Company or its successor at the Option exercise price. Such repurchase right (i) shall lapse at the same rate as the Option would have become exercisable under its terms and (ii) shall not apply to any shares subject to the Option that were exercisable under its terms without regard to the first sentence of this paragraph.
 
(3)       Upon the occurrence of a Reorganization Event that is not a Change in Control Event, the repurchase and other rights of the Company under each outstanding Restricted Stock Award shall inure to the benefit of the Company's successor and shall, unless the Board determines otherwise, apply to the cash, securities or other property which the Common Stock was converted into or exchanged for pursuant to such Reorganization Event in the same manner and to the same extent as they applied to the Common Stock subject to such Restricted Stock Award.
Effect of Reorganization Event on Restricted Stock Awards.
 
(4)       The Board may specify in an Award at the time of the grant the effect of a Reorganization Event on any SAR and Other Stock Unit Award.
Effect of Reorganization Event on Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Stock Unit Awards.
 
(5)     
Effect of Change in Control Event on Awards.
 
10
 
(A)     Unless otherwise determined by the Board at the time of the grant or evidenced in an applicable instrument evidencing an Award or employment or other agreement, in the event that a Participant's employment or service is terminated by the Company without Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case within eighteen (18) months following a Change in Control Event:
 
(i)     any Award carrying a right to exercise that was not previously vested and exercisable shall become fully vested and exercisable and all outstanding Awards shall remain exercisable for one (1) year following such date of termination of employment or service but in no event beyond the original term of the Award and shall thereafter terminate; and
 
(ii)     the restrictions, deferral limitations, payment conditions, and forfeiture conditions applicable to any Award other than an Award described in (i) shall lapse and such Awards shall be deemed fully vested, and any performance conditions imposed with respect to Awards shall be deemed to be achieved at the higher of (x) the target level for the applicable performance period or (y) the level of achievement of such performance conditions for the most recently concluded performance period.
 
(B)     Notwithstanding subparagraph (A) of this Section 9(b)(5), upon a Change in Control Event, the Board shall have the discretion to:
 
(i)     accelerate the vesting or payment of any Award effective immediately upon the occurrence of a Change in Control Event; or
 
(ii)     convert the vesting of performance-based Awards to a time-based vesting schedule as deemed appropriate by the Board;
 
in each case only to the extent that such action would not cause any Award to result in deferred compensation that is subject to the additional twenty percent (20%) tax under Section 409A of the Code.
 
(6)       The Board may, in its sole discretion, provide in an instrument evidencing an Award or otherwise for specific treatment of any outstanding Award in the event that any payment or benefit under this Plan would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (the "Excise Tax") or any interest or penalties with respect to such Excise Tax. Such treatment may include the payment by the Company of a payment in an amount equal to such Excise Tax, interest and penalties or the imposition of a cutback in payments or benefits.
Adjustment for Excise Tax.
gross-up
 
10.     
General Provisions Applicable to Awards
 
(a)       Awards shall not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered by the person to whom they are granted, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, other than in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, and, during the life of the Participant, shall be exercisable only by the Participant; provided, however, that the Board may permit or provide in an Award for the gratuitous transfer of the Award by the Participant to or for the benefit of any immediate family member, family trust or other entity established for the benefit of the Participant an immediate family member thereof if, with respect to such proposed transferee, the Company would be eligible to use a for the registration of the sale of the Common Stock subject to such Award under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; provided, further, that the Company shall not be required to recognize any such transfer until such time as the Participant and such permitted transferee shall, as a condition to such transfer, deliver to the Company a written instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Company confirming that such transferee shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Award. References to a Participant, to the extent relevant in the context, shall include references to authorized transferees.
Transferability of Awards.
and/or
Form S-8
 
(b)       Each Award shall be evidenced on such form, and containing such terms and conditions, as the Board shall determine and shall be delivered in such manner as the Company shall determine, including in writing, electronically or otherwise. The Award may be in the form of an agreement signed by the Company and the Participant or a written or electronic confirming memorandum to the Participant from the Company. Each Award may contain terms and conditions in addition to those set forth in the Plan.
Documentation.
 
11
 
(c)       Except as otherwise provided by the Plan, each Award may be made alone or in addition or in relation to any other Award. The terms of each Award need not be identical, and the Board need not treat Participants uniformly.
Board Discretion.
 
(d)       The Board shall determine the effect on an Award of the disability, death, termination or other cessation of employment, authorized leave of absence or other change in the employment or other status of a Participant and the extent to which, and the period during which, the Participant, or the Participant's legal representative, conservator, guardian or Designated Beneficiary, may exercise rights under the Award.
Termination of Status.
 
(e)       The Participant must satisfy all applicable federal, state, and local or other income and employment tax withholding obligations before the Company will deliver stock certificates or otherwise recognize ownership of Common Stock under an Award. The Company may decide to satisfy the withholding obligations through additional withholding on salary or wages. If the Company elects not to or cannot withhold from other compensation, the Participant must pay the Company the full amount, if any, required for withholding or have a broker tender to the Company cash equal to the withholding obligations. Payment of withholding obligations is due before the Company will issue any shares on exercise or release from forfeiture of an Award or, if the Company so requires, at the same time as is payment of the exercise price unless the Company determines otherwise. If provided for in an Award or approved by the Company in its sole discretion, a Participant may satisfy such tax obligations in whole or in part by delivery of shares of Common Stock, including shares retained from the Award creating the tax obligation, valued at their Fair Market Value; provided, however, except as otherwise provided by the Company, that the total tax withholding where stock is being used to satisfy such tax obligations cannot exceed the Company's minimum statutory withholding obligations (based on minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income). Shares surrendered to satisfy tax withholding requirements cannot be subject to any repurchase, forfeiture, unfulfilled vesting or other similar requirements.
Withholding.
 
(f)       Except as otherwise provided in Section 5(g) with respect to repricings, Section 7(b) or 8(b) with respect to the vesting of Restricted Stock Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards, Section 10(i) with respect to Performance Awards or Section 11(d) with respect to actions requiring shareholder approval, the Board may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award, including but not limited to, substituting therefor another Award of the same or a different type, changing the date of exercise or realization, and converting an Incentive Stock Option to a Nonstatutory Stock Option. The Participant's consent to such action shall be required unless (i) the Board determines that the action, taking into account any related action, would not materially and adversely affect the Participant's rights under the Plan or (ii) the change is permitted under Section 9 hereof.
Amendment of Award.
 
(g)       The Company will not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Plan or to remove restrictions from shares previously delivered under the Plan until (i) all conditions of the Award have been met or removed to the satisfaction of the Company, (ii) in the opinion of the Company's counsel, all other legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of such shares have been satisfied, including any applicable securities laws and any applicable stock exchange or stock market rules and regulations, and (iii) the Participant has executed and delivered to the Company such representations or agreements as the Company may consider appropriate to satisfy the requirements of any applicable laws, rules or regulations.
Conditions on Delivery of Stock.
 
(h)       Except as otherwise provided in Sections 7(b) or 8(b), the Board may at any time provide that any Award shall become immediately exercisable in full or in part, free of some or all restrictions or conditions, or otherwise realizable in full or in part, as the case may be.
Acceleration.
 
(i)     
Performance Awards.
 
(1)       Restricted Stock Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards under the Plan may be made subject to the achievement of performance goals pursuant to this Section 10(i) ("Performance Awards"), subject to the limit in Section 4(b)(1) on shares covered by such grants.
Grants.
 
12
 
(2)       Grants of Performance Awards to any Covered Employee intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) ("Performance-Based Compensation") shall be made only by a Committee (or subcommittee of a Committee) comprised solely of two or more directors eligible to serve on a committee making Awards qualifying as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m). In the case of such Awards granted to Covered Employees, references to the Board or to a Committee shall be deemed to be references to such Committee or subcommittee. "Covered Employee" shall mean any person who is, or whom the Committee, in its discretion, determines may be, a "covered employee" under Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.
Committee.
 
(3)       For any Award that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee shall specify that the extent of vesting delivery shall be subject to the achievement of one or more objective performance measures established by the Committee, which shall be based on the relative or absolute attainment of specified levels of one or any combination of the following: (a) earnings per share, (b) return on average equity or average assets in relation to a peer group of companies designated by the Company, (c) earnings, (d) earnings growth, (e) earnings before interest, taxes and amortization (EBITA), (f) operating income, (g) operating margins, (h) revenues, (i) expenses, (j) stock price, (k) market share, (l) chargeoffs, (m) reductions in non-performing assets, (n) return on sales, assets, equity or investment, (o) regulatory compliance, (p) satisfactory internal or external audits, (q) improvement of financial ratings, (r) achievement of balance sheet or income statement objectives, (s) net cash provided from continuing operations, (t) stock price appreciation, (u) total shareholder return, (v) cost control, (w) strategic initiatives, (x) net operating profit after tax, (y) pre-tax or after-tax income, (z) cash flow, or (aa) such other objective goals established by the Committee, and may be absolute in their terms or measured against or in relationship to other companies comparably, similarly or otherwise situated. The Committee may specify that such performance measures shall be adjusted to exclude any one or more of (i) extraordinary items and any other unusual or non-recurring items, (ii) discontinued operations, (iii) gains or losses on the dispositions of discontinued operations, (iv) the cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles, (v) the writedown of any asset, and (vi) charges for restructuring and rationalization programs. Such performance measures: (i) may vary by Participant and may be different for different Awards; (ii) may be particular to a Participant or the department, branch, line of business, subsidiary or other unit in which the Participant works and may cover such period as may be specified by the Committee; and (iii) shall be set by the Committee within the time period prescribed by, and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of, Section 162(m). Awards that are not intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation may be based on these or such other performance measures as the Board may determine.
Performance Measures.
and/or
 
(4)       Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan, with respect to any Performance Award that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may adjust downwards, but not upwards, the cash or number of Shares payable pursuant to such Award, and the Committee may not waive the achievement of the applicable performance measures except in the case of the death or disability of the Participant or a change in control of the Company.
Adjustments.
 
(5)       The Committee shall have the power to impose such other restrictions on Performance Awards as it may deem necessary or appropriate to ensure that such Awards satisfy all requirements for Performance-Based Compensation.
Other.
 
11.     
Miscellaneous
 
(a)       No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company. The Company expressly reserves the right at any time to dismiss or otherwise terminate its relationship with a Participant free from any liability or claim under the Plan, except as expressly provided in the applicable Award.
No Right To Employment or Other Status.
 
(b)       Subject to the provisions of the applicable Award, no Participant or Designated Beneficiary shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares of Common Stock to be distributed with respect to an Award until becoming the record holder of such shares.
No Rights As Stockholder.
 
13
 
(c)       The Plan shall become effective on the date the Plan is approved by the Company's stockholders (the "Effective Date"). No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after the expiration of 10 years from the Effective Date, but Awards previously granted may extend beyond that date.
Effective Date and Term of Plan.
 
(d)       The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time provided that (i) to the extent required by Section 162(m), no Award granted to a Participant that is intended to comply with Section 162(m) after the date of such amendment shall become exercisable, realizable or vested, as applicable to such Award, unless and until such amendment shall have been approved by the Company's stockholders if required by Section 162(m) (including the vote required under Section 162(m)); (ii) no amendment that would require stockholder approval under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") may be made effective unless and until such amendment shall have been approved by the Company's stockholders; and (iii) if the NYSE amends its corporate governance rules so that such rules no longer require stockholder approval of material revisions to equity compensation plans, then, from and after the effective date of such amendment to the NYSE rules, no amendment to the Plan (A) materially increasing the number of shares authorized under the Plan (other than pursuant to Section 4(c) or 9), (B) expanding the types of Awards that may be granted under the Plan, or (C) materially expanding the class of participants eligible to participate in the Plan shall be effective unless stockholder approval is obtained. In addition, if at any time the approval of the Company's stockholders is required as to any other modification or amendment under Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision with respect to Incentive Stock Options, the Board may not effect such modification or amendment without such approval. Unless otherwise specified in the amendment, any amendment to the Plan adopted in accordance with this Section 11(d) shall apply to, and be binding on the holders of, all Awards outstanding under the Plan at the time the amendment is adopted, provided the Board determines that such amendment does not materially and adversely affect the rights of Participants under the Plan.
Amendment of Plan.
 
(e)       The Board may modify Awards granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States or establish subplans or procedures under the Plan to recognize differences in laws, rules, regulations or customs of such foreign jurisdictions with respect to tax, securities, currency, employee benefit or other matters.
Provisions for Foreign Participants.
 
(f)       No Award shall provide for deferral of compensation that does not comply with Section 409A of the Code, unless the Board, at the time of grant, specifically provides that the Award is not intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code. The Company shall have no liability to a Participant, or any other party, if an Award that is intended to be exempt from, or compliant with, Section 409A is not so exempt or compliant or for any action taken by the Board.
Compliance with Code Section 409A.
 
(g)       The provisions of the Plan and all Awards made hereunder shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such state that would require the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such state.
Governing Law.

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
I.     General Purpose of Plan
 
    The Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 2008 Annual Incentive Award Plan is designed to assist the Corporation and its Subsidiaries in attracting, retaining and providing incentives to Eligible Employees and to promote the identification of their interests with those of the Corporation's shareholders by providing for the payment of Incentive Awards subject to the achievement of specified Performance Goals.
 
II.     Definitions
 
    Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the following meanings:
 
    A.     "Award Period" means the calendar year, except to the extent the Committee determines otherwise.
 
    B.     "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
    C.     "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
    D.     "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or any other committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
 
    E.     "Corporation" means Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its successors and assigns and any corporation which shall acquire substantially all of its assets.
 
    F.     "Covered Employee" means a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
    G.     "Eligible Employee" means an employee described in Section IV hereof.
 
    H.     "Incentive Award" means a contingent award made to a Participant that, subject to Section V hereof, entitles the Participant to cash payment to reflect the relative level of attainment of Performance Goals established by the Committee for an Award Period and such other factors as the Committee may determine.
 
    I.     "Participant" means any Eligible Employee who receives an Incentive Award under the Plan for an Award Period.
 
    J.     "Performance Goals" means (a) earnings per share, (b) return on average equity in relation to a peer group of companies designated by the Corporation (the "Peer Group"), (c) return on average assets in relation to the Peer Group, or (d) such other performance goals as may be established by the Committee which may be based on earnings, earnings growth, earnings before interest, taxes, and amortization (EBITA), operating income, operating margins, revenues, expenses, stock price, market share, charge-offs, reductions in non-performing assets, return on assets, equity or investment, regulatory compliance, satisfactory internal or external audits, improvement of financial ratings, achievement of balance sheet or income statement objectives, net cash provided from continuing operations, stock price appreciation, total shareholder return, cost control, strategic initiatives, market share, pre- or after-tax income, or any other objective goals established by the Committee, and may be absolute in their terms or measured against or in relationship to other companies comparably, similarly or otherwise situated. Such performance goals may be particular to a Participant or the division, department, branch, line of business, Subsidiary or other unit in which the Participant works, or may be based on the performance of the Corporation generally, and may cover such period as may be specified by the Committee. The Committee may specify that such Performance Goals shall be applied by excluding the impact of restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, cost of revenues charges associated with acquisitions or restructurings, other unusual or non-recurring items, and the cumulative effects of accounting changes.
 
    K.     "Plan" means the Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 2008 Annual Incentive Award Plan.
 
2
 
    L.     "Subsidiary" means a corporation of which at least 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock is owned by the Corporation, either directly or through one or more other Subsidiaries.
 
III.     Administration
 
    The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have plenary authority, in its discretion, to determine the terms of all Incentive Awards, including, without limitation, the Eligible Employees to whom, and the time or times at which, Incentive Awards are made, the Award Period to which each Incentive Award shall relate, the actual dollar amount to be paid pursuant to an Incentive Award, the Performance Goals to which payment of Incentive Awards will be subject, and when payments pursuant to Incentive Awards shall be made (which payments may, without limitation, be made during or after an Award Period on a deferred basis or in installments). In making such determinations, the Committee may take into account the nature of the services rendered by the respective Eligible Employees, their present and potential contributions to the success of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, and such other factors as the Committee in its discretion shall deem relevant. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have plenary authority to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to it and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The determinations of the Committee pursuant to its authority under the Plan shall be conclusive and binding.
 
IV.     Eligibility
 
    Incentive Awards may be granted only to executive officers of the Corporation or a Subsidiary.
 
V.     Incentive Awards; Terms of Awards; Payment
 
    A.     The Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine which Eligible Employees shall receive Incentive Awards. For each Award Period with respect to which the Committee determines to make Incentive Awards, the Committee shall by resolution establish one or more Performance Goals applicable to such Incentive Awards and the other terms and conditions of the Incentive Awards. Such Performance Goals and other terms and conditions shall be established by the Committee in its sole discretion as it shall deem appropriate and in the best interests of the Corporation and shall be established (1) within 90 days after the first day of the Award Period and (2) before 25% of the Award Period has elapsed.
 
    B.     After the end of each Award Period for which the Committee has granted Incentive Awards, the Committee shall determine the extent to which the Performance Goals established by the Committee for the Award Period have been achieved and shall authorize the Corporation to make Incentive Award payments to Participants in accordance with the terms of the Incentive Awards. In no event shall the amount paid to a Participant in accordance with the terms of an Incentive Award by reason of Performance Goal achievement exceed $5,000,000 in any calendar year. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, no Incentive Award payments shall be made to a Participant unless the Participant is employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary as of the end of the Award Period.
 
    C.     The Committee may at any time, in its sole discretion, cancel an Incentive Award or eliminate or reduce (but not increase) the amount payable pursuant to the terms of an Incentive Award without the consent of a Participant.
 
    D.     Incentive Award payments shall be subject to applicable federal, state and local withholding taxes and other applicable withholding in accordance with the Corporation's payroll practices as from time-to-time in effect.
 
    E.     The Committee shall have the power to impose such other restrictions on Incentive Awards as it may deem necessary or appropriate to ensure that such Incentive Awards satisfy all requirements for "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, or any successor provision thereto.
 
VI.     Transferability
 
    Incentive Awards shall not be subject to the claims of creditors and may not be assigned, alienated, transferred or encumbered in any way other than by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution.
 
3
 
VII.     Termination or Amendment
 
    The Committee may amend, modify or terminate the Plan in any respect at any time without the consent of Participants, provided that (a) no amendment or termination of the Plan after the end of an Award Period may adversely affect the rights of Participants with respect to their Incentive Awards for that Award Period, and (b) no amendment which would require shareholder approval under Section 162(m) of the Code may be effected without such shareholder approval.
 
VIII.     Effectiveness of Plan and Awards
 
    The Plan and Incentive Awards granted hereunder shall be void ab initio unless the Plan is approved by a vote of the Corporation's shareholders at the first shareholders' meeting of the Corporation following adoption of the Plan by the Committee.
 
IX.     Effective Date; Term of the Plan
 
    The Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 2008.  Unless sooner terminated by the Committee pursuant to Section 7, to the extent necessary to ensure that Incentive Award payments made to Covered Employees may be deductible for federal income tax purposes, the Plan shall terminate as of the date of the first meeting of the Corporation's shareholders occurring during 2013, unless the term of the Plan is extended and reapproved at such shareholders' meeting. No Incentive Awards may be awarded under the Plan after its termination. Termination of the Plan shall not affect any Incentive Awards outstanding on the date of termination and such awards shall continue to be subject to the terms of the Plan notwithstanding its termination.
 
X.     General Provisions
 
    A.     The establishment of the Plan shall not confer upon any Eligible Employee any legal or equitable right against the Corporation or any Subsidiary, except as expressly provided in the Plan.
 
    B.     The Plan does not constitute an inducement or consideration for the employment of any Eligible Employee, nor is it a contract between the Corporation, or any Subsidiary and any Eligible Employee. Participation in the Plan shall not give an Eligible Employee any right to be retained in the employ of the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
 
    C.     Nothing contained in this Plan shall prevent the Committee from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements, subject to shareholder approval if such approval is required, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
 
    D.     The Plan shall be governed, construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.


