FILE:TMO/TMO-8K-20080519115138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On May 15, 2008, the Board of Directors of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (the "Company") approved the following agreements.
Executive Change in Control Retention Agreements
     In connection with the expiration of its existing change in control retention agreements with executives, on May 15, 2008 the Board of Directors authorized the Company's entering into new executive change in control retention agreements with executives that provide cash and other severance benefits if there is a change in control of the Company and their employment is terminated by the Company without "cause" or by the individual for "good reason," as those terms are defined therein, in each case within 18 months thereafter. Marc Casper, Alan Malus, Seth Hoogasian and Peter Wilver will be party to these agreements. Marijn Dekkers' existing employment agreement already provides for certain cash and severance benefits to be paid to Mr. Dekkers in the event that his employment is terminated by the Company without "cause" or by him for "good reason," as those terms are defined therein.
     For purposes of these executive change in control retention agreements, a change in control exists upon (i) the acquisition by any person of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock or voting securities of the Company; (ii) the failure of the Board to include a majority of directors who are "continuing directors," which term is defined to include directors who were members of the Board on the date of the agreement or who subsequent to the date of the agreement were nominated or elected by a majority of directors who were "continuing directors" at the time of such nomination or election; (iii) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization or statutory share exchange involving the Company or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company unless immediately after such transaction: (a) all holders of common stock immediately prior to such transaction own more than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of the resulting or acquiring corporation in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such transaction and (b) no person after the transaction owns 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the resulting or acquiring corporation; or (iv) approval by stockholders of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
     The executive change in control retention agreements with executive officers provide that, upon a qualifying termination, the executive would be entitled to (A) a lump sum payment equal to (1) two multiplied by (2) the sum of (x) the higher of the executive's annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to the "measurement date" or the "termination date" and (y) the higher of the executive's target bonus as in effect immediately prior to the measurement date or the termination date, and (B) a pro rata bonus for the year of termination, based on the executive's target bonus as in effect immediately prior to the measurement date or the termination date. In addition, the executive would be provided continuing medical, dental and life insurance benefits for a period of two years, after such termination. Finally, the Company would provide outplacement services through an outside firm to the executive up to an aggregate of $20,000.
Table of Contents
     In the event that total payments under these agreements exceed 110% of the maximum amount of total payments the executive could receive without being treated as receiving any so-called "excess parachute payments" under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the executive would be entitled to receive a gross-up payment equal to the amount of any excise tax payable by such executive with respect to such payment plus the amount of all other additional taxes imposed on such executive attributable to the receipt of the gross-up payment. In the event that the total payments under these agreements are between 100% and 110% of the maximum amount of total payments the executive could receive without being treated as receiving any excess parachute payments, the executive's payments will be "cutback" so that the total payments he receives will not cause him to be treated as receiving any excess parachute payments. The Form of Executive Change in Control Retention Agreement for Officers is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Executive Severance Policy
     On May 15, 2008, the Company elected to terminate, effective December 31, 2008, its existing severance agreements with certain executives and replace them with an executive severance policy that provides severance benefits in the event their employment is terminated by the Company without "cause" (as such term is defined therein). Messrs. Malus, Wilver and Hoogasian are eligible to receive benefits under the executive severance policy. Mr. Dekkers' existing employment agreement already provides for certain severance benefits to be paid to him in the event of his termination. Mr. Casper is party to an executive severance agreement with the Company that expires in 2011, and will not be eligible to participate in the executive severance policy until the expiration of his current severance agreement.
     The executive severance policy provides that, in the event an executive officer's employment is terminated by the Company without cause, he would be entitled to a lump sum severance payment equal to the sum of (A) 1.5 times his annual base salary then in effect, and (B) 1.5 times his target bonus for the year in which the date of termination occurs, except that if the executive receives benefits under the executive change in control retention agreement described above, he would not be entitled to receive benefits under the executive severance agreement. In addition, for 18 months after the date of termination, the executive would be provided medical, dental and life insurance benefits at least equal to those he would have received had his employment not been terminated, or if more favorable, to those in effect generally during such period with respect to peer executives of the Company. Finally, the executive would be entitled to up to $20,000 of outplacement services until the earlier of 12 months following his termination or the date he secures full-time employment. The Company's Executive Severance Policy is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Table of Contents
     On May 15, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Marc Casper Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Casper, 40, was appointed Executive Vice President in November 2006. He was Senior Vice President from December 2003 to November 2006 and President, Life and Laboratory Sciences from December 2001 to March 2005. He was Vice President of the Company from December 2001 to December 2003.
     In connection with Mr. Casper's appointment to COO, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of the Company took the following actions relating to executive compensation:
     The Company's executive officers have annual target cash bonus amounts, expressed as a percentage of their annual base salaries. The percentage for Mr. Casper was adjusted by the Compensation Committee, effective May 15, 2008, from 85% to 95%.
     The Compensation Committee also granted an option to purchase 375,000 shares of Company stock to Mr. Casper under the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on November 9, 2006. The stock option grant is evidenced by the Stock Option Agreement for Mr. Casper, a copy of which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.3. The options (a) vest in equal annual installments over the five-year period commencing on the first anniversary of the date of grant so long as he is employed by the Company on each such date (subject to certain exceptions), (b) have an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on May 15, 2008, and (c) have a term of 7 years from such date.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
     On May 15, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved amendments to Sections 2 and 11 of Article III of the Company's Bylaws to provide increased flexibility on the date that officers are elected annually by the Board and to reflect current reporting relationships.
     A copy of the Amendments to Bylaws of the Company is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, on this 19 day of May, 2008.
th
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 3.1
1. Article III, Section 2, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
". Officers of the Company shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors."
Section 2. Election
2. Article III, Section 11 is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
". The Treasurer shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may from time to time be assigned to the Treasurer by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. In addition, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall perform such duties and have such powers as are incident to the office of treasurer, including, without limitation, the duty and power to keep and be responsible for all funds and securities of the Corporation, to deposit funds of the Corporation in depositories, to disburse such funds, to make proper accounts of such funds, and to render statements of all such transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation."
Section 11. The Treasurer

EXHIBIT 10.1
     THIS AGREEMENT by and between THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and (the "Executive") is made as of May ___, 2008 (the "Effective Date").
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, the Company recognizes that, as is the case with many publicly-held corporations, the possibility of a change in control of the Company exists and that such possibility, and the uncertainty and questions which it may raise among key personnel, may result in the departure or distraction of key personnel to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders; and
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued employment and dedication of the Company's key personnel without distraction from the possibility of a change in control of the Company and related events and circumstances;
     NOW, THEREFORE, as an inducement for and in consideration of the Executive remaining in its employ, the Company agrees that the Executive shall receive the severance benefits set forth in this Agreement in the event the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated under the circumstances described below subsequent to a Change in Control Date (as defined in Section 1.2).
     1. .
Key Definitions
     As used herein, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
          1.1 "" means an event or occurrence set forth in any one or more of subsections (a) through (d) below (including an event or occurrence that constitutes a Change in Control under one of such subsections but is specifically exempted from another such subsection):
Change in Control
               (a) the acquisition by an individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership of any capital stock of the Company if, after such acquisition, such Person beneficially owns (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) 50% or more of either (i) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (i) any acquisition by the Company, (ii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation
provided
however
 
controlled by the Company, or (iii) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i) and (ii) of subsection (c) of this Section 1.1; or
               (b) such time as the Continuing Directors (as defined below) do not constitute a majority of the Board (or, if applicable, the Board of Directors of a successor corporation to the Company), where the term "Continuing Director" means at any date a member of the Board (i) who was a member of the Board on the date of the execution of this Agreement or (ii) who was nominated or elected subsequent to such date by at least a majority of the directors who were Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election or whose election to the Board was recommended or endorsed by at least a majority of the directors who were Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election; , , that there shall be excluded from this clause (ii) any individual whose initial assumption of office occurred as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents, by or on behalf of a person other than the Board; or
provided
however
               (c) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization or statutory share exchange involving the Company or a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in one or a series of transactions (a "Business Combination"), unless, immediately following such Business Combination, each of the following two conditions is satisfied: (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, respectively, of the resulting or acquiring corporation in such Business Combination (which shall include, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) (such resulting or acquiring corporation is referred to herein as the "Acquiring Corporation") in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, respectively; and (ii) no Person (excluding the Acquiring Corporation or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) maintained or sponsored by the Company or by the Acquiring Corporation) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Acquiring Corporation, or of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
               (d) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
     1.2 "" means the first date during the Term (as defined in Section 2) on which a Change in Control occurs. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if (a) a Change in Control occurs, (b) the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated prior to the date on which the Change in Control occurs, and (c) it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment (i) was at the
Change in Control Date
 
request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change in Control, then for all purposes of this Agreement the "Change in Control Date" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment.
          1.3 "" means the Executive's willful engagement in illegal conduct or gross misconduct after the Change in Control Date which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. For purposes of this Section 1.3, no act or failure to act by the Executive shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, in bad faith and without reasonable belief that the Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.
Cause
          1.4 "" means the occurrence, without the Executive's written consent, of any of the events or circumstances set forth in clauses (a) through (g) below. Notwithstanding the occurrence of any such event or circumstance, such occurrence shall not be deemed to constitute Good Reason if, prior to the Date of Termination specified in the Notice of Termination (each as defined in Section 3.2(a)) given by the Executive in respect thereof, such event or circumstance has been fully corrected and the Executive has been reasonably compensated for any losses or damages resulting therefrom (provided that such right of correction by the Company shall only apply to the first Notice of Termination for Good Reason given by the Executive).
Good Reason
               (a) the assignment to the Executive of duties inconsistent in any material respect with the Executive's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority or responsibilities in effect immediately prior to the earliest to occur of (i) the Change in Control Date, (ii) the date of the execution by the Company of the initial written agreement or instrument providing for the Change in Control or (iii) the date of the adoption by the Board of Directors of a resolution providing for the Change in Control (with the earliest to occur of such dates referred to herein as the "Measurement Date") or a material diminution in such position, authority or responsibilities;
               (b) a reduction in the Executive's annual base salary as in effect on the Measurement Date or as the same was or may be increased thereafter from time to time;
               (c) the failure by the Company to (i) continue in effect any material compensation or benefit plan or program, including without limitation any life insurance, medical, health and accident or disability plan and any vacation or automobile program or policy, in which the Executive participates or which is applicable to the Executive immediately prior to the Measurement Date (a "Benefit Plan"), unless an equitable arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with respect to such plan or program, (ii) continue the Executive's participation therein (or in such substitute or alternative plan) on a basis not materially less favorable than the basis existing immediately prior to the Measurement Date (iii) award cash bonuses to the Executive in amounts and in a manner substantially consistent with past practice in light of the Company's financial performance or (iv) continue to provide any material fringe benefit enjoyed by Executive immediately prior to the Measurement Date;
 
               (d) a change by the Company in the location at which the Executive performs the Executive's principal duties for the Company to a new location that is both (i) outside a radius of 50 miles from the Executive's principal residence immediately prior to the Measurement Date and (ii) more than 30 miles from the location at which the Executive performed the Executive's principal duties for the Company immediately prior to the Measurement Date; or a requirement by the Company that the Executive travel on Company business to a substantially greater extent than required immediately prior to the Measurement Date;
               (e) the failure of the Company to obtain the agreement from any successor to the Company to assume and agree to perform this Agreement, as required by Section 6.1;
               (f) a purported termination of the Executive's employment which is not effected pursuant to a Notice of Termination satisfying the requirements of Section 3.2(a); or
               (g) any failure of the Company to pay or provide to the Executive any portion of the Executive's compensation or benefits due under any Benefit Plan within seven days of the date such compensation or benefits are due, or any material breach by the Company of this Agreement or any employment agreement with the Executive.
     The Executive's right to terminate the Executive's employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness.
          1.5 "" means the Executive's inability, due to a physical or mental disability, for a period of 90 days, whether or not consecutive, during any 360-day period to perform the Executive's duties on behalf of the Company, with or without reasonable accommodation as that term is defined under state or federal law. A determination of disability shall be made by a physician satisfactory to both the Executive and the Company, if the Executive and the Company do not agree on a physician, the Executive and the Company shall each select a physician and these two together shall select a third physician, whose determination as to disability shall be binding on all parties.
Disability
provided
that
     2. . This Agreement, and all rights and obligations of the parties hereunder, shall take effect upon the Effective Date and shall expire upon the first to occur of (a) the expiration of the Term (as defined below) if a Change in Control has not occurred during the Term, (b) the date 18 months after the Change in Control Date, if the Executive is still employed by the Company as of such later date, or (c) the fulfillment by the Company of all of its obligations under Sections 4 and 5.2 if the Executive's employment with the Company terminates within 18 months following the Change in Control Date. "Term" shall mean the period commencing as of the Effective Date and continuing in effect through May 15, 2013.
Term of Agreement
     3. .
Employment Status; Termination Following Change in Control
          3.1 . The Executive acknowledges that this Agreement does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Company any
Not an Employment Contract
 
obligation to retain the Executive as an employee and that this Agreement does not prevent the Executive from terminating employment at any time. If the Executive's employment with the Company terminates for any reason and subsequently a Change in Control shall occur, the Executive shall not be entitled to any benefits hereunder except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 1.2.
          3.2 .
Termination of Employment
               (a) If the Change in Control Date occurs during the Term, any termination of the Executive's employment by the Company or by the Executive within 18 months following the Change in Control Date (other than due to the death of the Executive) shall be communicated by a written notice to the other party hereto (the "Notice of Termination"), given in accordance with Section 7. Any Notice of Termination shall: (i) indicate the specific termination provision (if any) of this Agreement relied upon by the party giving such notice, (ii) to the extent applicable, set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) specify the Date of Termination (as defined below). The effective date of an employment termination (the "Date of Termination") shall be the close of business on the date specified in the Notice of Termination (which date may not be less than 15 days or more than 120 days after the date of delivery of such Notice of Termination), in the case of a termination other than one due to the Executive's death, or the date of the Executive's death, as the case may be. In the event the Company fails to satisfy the requirements of Section 3.2(a) regarding a Notice of Termination, the purported termination of the Executive's employment pursuant to such Notice of Termination shall not be effective for purposes of this Agreement.
               (b) The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company, respectively, hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company, respectively, from asserting any such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
               (c) Any Notice of Termination for Cause given by the Company must be given within 90 days of the occurrence of the event(s) or circumstance(s) which constitute(s) Cause. Prior to any Notice of Termination for Cause being given (and prior to any termination for Cause being effective), the Executive shall be entitled to a hearing before the Board at which the Executive may, at the Executive's election, be represented by counsel and at which the Executive shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard. Such hearing shall be held on not less than 15 days prior written notice to the Executive stating the Board's intention to terminate the Executive for Cause and stating in detail the particular event(s) or circumstance(s) which the Board believes constitutes Cause for termination.
               (d) Any Notice of Termination for Good Reason given by the Executive must be given within 90 days of the occurrence of the event(s) or circumstance(s) which constitute(s) Good Reason.
 
     4. .
Benefits to Executive
          4.1 . If the Change in Control Date occurs during the Term and the Executive's employment with the Company terminates within 18 months following the Change in Control Date, the Executive shall be entitled to the following benefits:
Compensation
               (a) . If the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company (other than for Cause, Disability or death) or by the Executive for Good Reason within 18 months following the Change in Control Date, then the Executive shall be entitled to the following benefits:
Termination Without Cause or for Good Reason
                    (i) the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the Date of Termination the aggregate of the following amounts:
                         (1) the sum of (A) the Executive's base salary through the Date of Termination, (B) the product of (x) the higher of the Executive's target bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Measurement Date or the Termination Date and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365 and (C) the amount of any accrued vacation pay, to the extent not previously paid (the sum of the amounts described in clauses (A), (B), and (C) shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Accrued Obligations"); and
                         (2) an amount equal to (a) two multiplied by (b) the sum of (x) the higher of the Executive's annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to the Measurement Date or the Termination Date and (y) the higher of the Executive's target bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Measurement Date or the Termination Date.
                    (ii) for two years after the Date of Termination, or such longer period as may be provided by the terms of the appropriate plan, program, practice or policy, the Company shall continue to provide medical, dental and life insurance benefits to the Executive and the Executive's family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them if the Executive's employment had not been terminated, in accordance with the applicable medical, dental and life insurance Benefit Plans in effect on the Measurement Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and the Executive's family, in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies; , , that (A) if the terms of a medical, dental or life insurance Benefit Plan do not permit continued participation therein by a former employee, then an equitable arrangement shall be made by the Company (such as a substitute or alternative plan) to provide as substantially equivalent a benefit as is reasonably possible and (B) if the Executive becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive a particular type of benefits (e.g., medical insurance benefits) from such employer on terms at least as favorable to the Executive and the Executive's family as those being provided by the Company, then the Company shall no longer be required to provide those particular benefits to the Executive and the Executive's family; and
provided
however
 
                    (iii) to the extent not previously paid or provided, the Company shall timely pay or provide to the Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which the Executive is eligible to receive following the Executive's termination of employment under any plan, program, policy, practice, contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliated companies (other than severance benefits) (such other amounts and benefits shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Other Benefits").
               (b) . If the Executive voluntarily terminates the Executive's employment with the Company within 18 months following the Change in Control Date, excluding a termination for Good Reason, or if the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated by reason of the Executive's death or Disability within 18 months following the Change in Control Date, then the Company shall (i) pay the Executive (or the Executive's estate, if applicable), in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the Date of Termination, the Accrued Obligations and (ii) timely pay or provide to the Executive the Other Benefits.
Resignation without Good Reason; Termination for Death or Disability
               (c) . If the Company terminates the Executive's employment with the Company for Cause within 18 months following the Change in Control Date, then the Company shall (i) pay the Executive, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the Date of Termination, the Executive's annual base salary through the Date of Termination, and (ii) timely pay or provide to the Executive the Other Benefits.
Termination for Cause
          4.2 .
Taxes
               (a) In the event that the Company undergoes a "Change in Ownership or Control" (as defined below), and thereafter, the Executive becomes eligible to receive "Contingent Compensation Payments" (as defined below), then subsections (b) and (c) of this Section 4.2 shall apply.
               (b) In the event that the total Contingent Compensation Payments payable to the Executive (without regard to this Section 4.2(b)) exceed 110% of the maximum amount of Contingent Compensation Payments the Executive could receive without being treated as receiving any "excess parachute payments" (as defined in Section 280G(b)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code")), then the Company shall, as soon as administratively feasible after the Executive becomes so eligible determine and notify the Executive (with reasonable detail regarding the basis for its determinations) (i) which of the payments or benefits due to the Executive following such Change in Ownership or Control constitute Contingent Compensation Payments, (ii) the amount, if any, of the excise tax (the "Excise Tax") payable pursuant to Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), by the Executive with respect to such Contingent Compensation Payment and (iii) the amount of the "Gross-Up Payment" (as defined below) due to the Executive with respect to such Contingent Compensation Payment. Within 30 days after delivery of such notice to the Executive, the Executive shall deliver a response to the Company (the "Executive Response") stating either (A) that he agrees with the Company's determination pursuant to the preceding sentence or (B) that he disagrees with such determination, in which case he shall indicate which payment and/or benefits should be characterized as a Contingent Compensation
 
Payment, the amount of the Excise Tax with respect to such Contingent Compensation Payment and the amount of the Gross-Up Payment due to the Executive with respect to such Contingent Compensation Payment. If the Executive states in the Executive Response that he agrees with the Company's determination, the Company shall make the Gross-Up Payment to the Executive within three business days following delivery to the Company of the Executive Response. If the Executive states in the Executive Response that he disagrees with the Company's determination, then, for a period of 15 days following delivery of the Executive Response, the Executive and the Company shall use good faith efforts to resolve such dispute. If such dispute is not resolved within such 15-day period, such dispute shall be settled exclusively by arbitration in Boston, Massachusetts, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having jurisdiction. The Company shall, within three business days following delivery to the Company of the Executive Response, make to the Executive those Gross-Up Payments as to which there is no dispute between the Company and the Executive regarding whether they should be made. The balance of the Gross-Up Payments shall be made within three business days following the resolution of such dispute. The amount of any payments to be made to the Executive following the resolution of such dispute shall be increased by the amount of the accrued interest thereon computed at the prime rate announced from time to time by The Wall Street Journal compounded monthly from the date that such payments originally were due. In the event that the Executive fails to deliver an Executive Response on or before the required date, the Company's initial determination shall be final.
               (c) In the event that the total Contingent Compensation Payments payable to the Executive (without regard to Section 4.2(b)) do not exceed 110% of the maximum amount of Contingent Compensation Payments the Executive could receive without being treated as receiving any "excess parachute payments", then the Company shall not be obligated to provide to the Executive a portion of any Contingent Compensation Payments that the Executive would otherwise be entitled to receive to the extent necessary to eliminate any excess parachute payments for the Executive. For purposes of this Section 4.2(c), the Contingent Compensation Payments so eliminated shall be referred to as the "Eliminated Payments" and the aggregate amount (determined in accordance with Treasury Regulation Section 1.280G-1, Q/A-30 or any successor provision) of the Contingent Compensation Payments so eliminated shall be referred to as the "Eliminated Amount." Any payments or other benefits otherwise due to the Executive following a Change in Ownership or Control that could reasonably be characterized (as determined by the Company) as Contingent Compensation Payments shall not be made until the determination, pursuant to this Section 4.2(c), of which Contingent Compensation Payments shall be treated as Eliminated Payments. Within 30 days after each date on which the Executive first becomes entitled to receive (whether or not then due) a Contingent Compensation Payment relating to such Change in Ownership or Control, the Company shall determine and notify the Executive (with reasonable detail regarding the basis for its determinations) (i) which of such payments and benefits constitute Contingent Compensation Payments and (ii) the Eliminated Amount. Within 30 days after delivery of such notice to the Executive, the Executive shall deliver a response to the Company (the "Executive Response") stating either (A) that he agrees with the Company's determination pursuant to the preceding sentence and notifies the Company which Contingent Compensation Payments, or portions thereof (the aggregate amount of which, determined in accordance with Treasury Regulation Section 1.280G-1, Q/A-30 or any successor
 
provision, shall be equal to the Eliminated Amount), shall be treated as Eliminated Payments or (B) that he disagrees with such determination, in which case he shall indicate which payment and/or benefits should be characterized as a Contingent Compensation Payment and shall indicate the amount of the Eliminated Amount. If the Executive states in the Executive Response that he agrees with the Company's determination, the Company shall make the Contingent Compensation Payment to the Executive within three business days following delivery to the Company of the Executive Response. If the Executive states in the Executive Response that he disagrees with the Company's determination, then, for a period of 15 days following delivery of the Executive Response, the Executive and the Company shall use good faith efforts to resolve such dispute. If such dispute is not resolved within such 15-day period, such dispute shall be settled exclusively by arbitration in Boston, Massachusetts, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having jurisdiction. The amount of any payments to be made to the Executive following the resolution of such dispute shall be increased by the amount of the accrued interest thereon computed at the prime rate announced from time to time by The Wall Street Journal compounded monthly from the date that such payments originally were due. In the event that the Executive fails to deliver an Executive Response on or before the required date, the Company's initial determination shall be final and the Contingent Compensation Payments (or portions thereof) that shall be treated as Eliminated Payments shall be determined by the Company in its absolute discretion.
               (d) For purposes of this Section 4.2, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
                    (i) "Change in Ownership or Control" shall mean a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company determined in accordance with Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code.
                    (ii) "Contingent Compensation Payment" shall mean any payment (or benefit) in the nature of compensation that is made or supplied to a "disqualified individual" (as defined in Section 280G(c) of the Code) and that is contingent (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Code) on a Change in Ownership or Control of the Company.
                    (iii) "Gross-Up Payment" shall mean an amount equal to the sum of (i) the amount of the Excise Tax payable with respect to a Contingent Compensation Payment and (ii) the amount necessary to pay all additional taxes imposed on (or economically borne by) the Executive (including the Excise Taxes, state and federal income taxes and all applicable withholding taxes) attributable to the receipt of such Gross-Up Payment. For purposes of the preceding sentence, all taxes attributable to the receipt of the Gross-Up Payment shall be computed assuming the application of the maximum tax rates provided by law.
          4.3 .
Payments Subject to Section 409A
               (a) Subject to this Section 4.3, payments or benefits under Section 4.1 shall begin only upon the date of a "separation from service" of the Executive (determined as set
 
forth below) which occurs on or after the termination of the Executive's employment. The following rules shall apply with respect to distribution of the payments and benefits, if any, to be provided to the Executive under Section 4.1, as applicable:
                    (i) It is intended that each installment of the payments and benefits provided under Section 4.1 shall be treated as a separate "payment" for purposes of Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued thereunder ("Section 409A"). Neither the Company nor the Executive shall have the right to accelerate or defer the delivery of any such payments or benefits except to the extent specifically permitted or required by Section 409A.
                    (ii) If, as of the date of the "separation from service" of the Executive from the Company, the Executive is not a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A), then each installment of the payments and benefits shall be made on the dates and terms set forth in Section 4.1.
                    (iii) If, as of the date of the "separation from service" of the Executive from the Company, the Executive is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A), then:
                         (1) Each installment of the payments and benefits due under Section 4.1 that, in accordance with the dates and terms set forth herein, will in all circumstances, regardless of when the separation from service occurs, be paid within the Short-Term Deferral Period (as hereinafter defined) shall be treated as a short-term deferral within the meaning of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4) to the maximum extent permissible under Section 409A. For purposes of this Agreement, the "Short-Term Deferral Period" means the period ending on the later of the 15 day of the third month following the end of the Executive's tax year in which the separation from service occurs and the 15 day of the third month following the end of the Company's tax year in which the separation from service occurs; and
th
th
                         (2) Each installment of the payments and benefits due under Section 4.1 that is not described in Section 4.3(a)(iii)(1) and that would, absent this subsection, be paid within the six-month period following the "separation from service" of the Executive from the Company shall not be paid until the date that is six months and one day after such separation from service (or, if earlier, the Executive's death), with any such installments that are required to be delayed being accumulated during the six-month period and paid in a lump sum on the date that is six months and one day following the Executive's separation from service and any subsequent installments, if any, being paid in accordance with the dates and terms set forth herein; , , that the preceding provisions of this sentence shall not apply to any installment of payments and benefits if and to the maximum extent that that such installment is deemed to be paid under a separation pay plan that does not provide for a deferral of compensation by reason of the application of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) (relating to separation pay upon an involuntary separation from service). Any installments that qualify for the exception under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) must be paid no later than the last day of the Executive's second taxable year following his taxable year in which the separation from service occurs.
provided
however
 
               (b) The determination of whether and when a separation from service of the Executive from the Company has occurred shall be made and in a manner consistent with, and based on the presumptions set forth in, Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h). Solely for purposes of this Section 4.3(b), "Company" shall include all persons with whom the Company would be considered a single employer under Section 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code.
               (c) All reimbursements and in-kind benefits provided under the Agreement shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A to the extent that such reimbursements or in-kind benefits are subject to Section 409A.
          4.4 . In the event the Executive is terminated by the Company (other than for Cause, Disability or death), or the Executive terminates employment for Good Reason, within 18 months following the Change in Control Date, the Company shall provide outplacement services through one or more outside firms of the Executive's choosing up to an aggregate of $20,000, with such services to extend until the earlier of (i) 12 months following the termination of the Executive's employment or (ii) the date the Executive secures full time employment.
Outplacement Services
          4.5 . The Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or benefits provided for in this Section 4 by seeking other employment or otherwise. Further, except as provided in Section 4.1(a)(ii), the amount of any payment or benefits provided for in this Section 4 shall not be reduced by any compensation earned by the Executive as a result of employment by another employer, by retirement benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by the Executive to the Company or otherwise.
Mitigation
          4.6 . The Executive shall not be entitled to any payments or other benefits hereunder unless the Executive executes and, if applicable, does not revoke, a full and complete release and separation agreement in the form to be provided by the Company.
Release of Claims by Executive
     5. .
Disputes
          5.1 . All claims by the Executive for benefits under this Agreement shall be directed to and determined by the Board and shall be in writing. Any denial by the Board of Directors of a claim for benefits under this Agreement shall be delivered to the Executive in writing and shall set forth the specific reasons for the denial. The Board shall afford a reasonable opportunity to the Executive for a review of the decision denying a claim. Any further dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled exclusively by arbitration in Boston, Massachusetts, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having jurisdiction.
Settlement of Disputes; Arbitration
          5.2 . The Company agrees to pay as incurred, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal, accounting and other fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur as a result of any claim or contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Executive or others regarding the validity or enforceability of, or liability under,
Expenses
 
any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Executive regarding the amount of any payment or benefits pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code.
     6. .
Successors
          6.1 . The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain an assumption of this Agreement at or prior to the effectiveness of any succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall constitute Good Reason if the Executive elects to terminate employment, except that for purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such succession becomes effective shall be deemed the Date of Termination. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as defined above and any successor to its business or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement, by operation of law or otherwise.
Successor to Company
          6.2 . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If the Executive should die while any amount would still be payable to the Executive or the Executive's family hereunder if the Executive had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to the executors, personal representatives or administrators of the Executive's estate.
Successor to Executive
     7. . All notices, instructions and other communications given hereunder or in connection herewith shall be in writing. Any such notice, instruction or communication shall be sent either (i) by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (ii) prepaid via a reputable nationwide overnight courier service, in each case addressed to the Company, at 81 Wyman Street, Waltham, Massachusetts and to the Executive at the Executive's principal residence as currently reflected on the Company's records (or to such other address as either the Company or the Executive may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith). Any such notice, instruction or communication shall be deemed to have been delivered five business days after it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or one business day after it is sent via a reputable nationwide overnight courier service. Either party may give any notice, instruction or other communication hereunder using any other means, but no such notice, instruction or other communication shall be deemed to have been duly delivered unless and until it actually is received by the party for whom it is intended.
Notice
 
     8. .
Miscellaneous
          8.1 . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
          8.2 . The Company and the Executive agree that any breach of this Agreement by the Company is likely to cause the Executive substantial and irrevocable damage and therefore, in the event of any such breach, in addition to such other remedies which may be available, the Executive shall have the right to specific performance and injunctive relief.
Injunctive Relief
          8.3 . The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the internal laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to conflicts of law principles.
Governing Law
          8.4 . No waiver by the Executive at any time of any breach of, or compliance with, any provision of this Agreement to be performed by the Company shall be deemed a waiver of that or any other provision at any subsequent time.
Waivers
          8.5 . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but both of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          8.6 . Any payments provided for hereunder shall be paid net of any applicable tax withholding required under federal, state or local law.
Tax Withholding
          8.7 . This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations or warranties, whether oral or written, by any officer, employee or representative of any party hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein; and any prior agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein is hereby terminated and cancelled.
Entire Agreement
          8.8 . This Agreement may be amended or modified only by a written instrument executed by both the Company and the Executive.
Amendments
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement under seal as of the day and year first set forth above.
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
     1. . The Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. Executive Severance Policy (the "Policy") is designed to provide separation pay and benefits to certain eligible Executives of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (the "Company") whose employment is involuntarily terminated without cause. This document constitutes the written instrument under which the Policy is maintained and supersedes any prior plan or practice of the Company that provides severance benefits to Executives, including without limitation, the relevant terms of any individual offer or employment letter or contract. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if an Executive is party to an agreement with the Company providing for the payment of benefits in the event the employment of such Executive is terminated after a Change in Control (a "Change in Control Agreement"), such Change in Control Agreement shall not be terminated or cancelled by this Policy and such Change in Control Agreement shall survive and remain in effect in accordance with its own terms. In the event such Executive actually receives benefits under a Change in Control Agreement, such Executive shall not also be entitled to receive benefits under this Policy. This Policy shall become effective as of January 1, 2009.
Introduction
     2. .
Key Definitions
     As used herein, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
          2.1 "" means an event or occurrence set forth in any one or more of subsections (a) through (d) below (including an event or occurrence that constitutes a Change in Control under one of such subsections but is specifically exempted from another such subsection):
Change in Control
               (a) the acquisition by an individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership of any capital stock of the Company if, after such acquisition, such Person beneficially owns (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) 50% or more of either (i) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (i) any acquisition by the Company, (ii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (iii) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i) and (ii) of subsection (c) of this Section 1.1; or
provided
however
               (b) such time as the Continuing Directors (as defined below) do not constitute a majority of the Board (or, if applicable, the Board of Directors of a successor corporation to the Company), where the term "Continuing Director" means at any date a member
 
of the Board (i) who was a member of the Board on the date of the execution of this Agreement or (ii) who was nominated or elected subsequent to such date by at least a majority of the directors who were Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election or whose election to the Board was recommended or endorsed by at least a majority of the directors who were Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election; , , that there shall be excluded from this clause (ii) any individual whose initial assumption of office occurred as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents, by or on behalf of a person other than the Board; or
provided
however
               (c) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization or statutory share exchange involving the Company or a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in one or a series of transactions (a "Business Combination"), unless, immediately following such Business Combination, each of the following two conditions is satisfied: (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, respectively, of the resulting or acquiring corporation in such Business Combination (which shall include, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) (such resulting or acquiring corporation is referred to herein as the "Acquiring Corporation") in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, respectively; and (ii) no Person (excluding the Acquiring Corporation or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) maintained or sponsored by the Company or by the Acquiring Corporation) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Acquiring Corporation, or of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
               (d) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
          2.2 "" means the Executive's willful engagement in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. For purposes of this Section 2.2, no act or failure to act by the Executive shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, in bad faith and without reasonable belief that the Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.
Cause
          2.3 "Continuation Period" means a period beginning on the date of termination of the Executive and continuing for 18 consecutive months in the case of an Officer and for 12 consecutive months in the case of an Executive who is not an Officer.
 
          2.4 "" means the Executive's inability, due to a physical or mental disability, for a period of 90 days, whether or not consecutive, during any 360-day period to perform the Executive's duties on behalf of the Company, with or without reasonable accommodation as that term is defined under state or federal law. A determination of disability shall be made by a physician satisfactory to both the Executive and the Company, if the Executive and the Company do not agree on a physician, the Executive and the Company shall each select a physician and these two together shall select a third physician, whose determination as to disability shall be binding on all parties.
Disability
provided
that
          2.5 "Executive" means an employee of the Company who has been classified by the Company as a Career Band VII Employee or an officer; provided, however, that an employee who is party to an agreement with the Company providing for the payment of separation benefits in the event the employment of such Executive is terminated without cause (other than a Change in Control Agreement) shall not be considered to be an Executive for purposes of this Policy.
          2.6 "Officer" means an Executive who has been designated by the Company's Board of Directors as an officer of the Company.
          2.7 "Severance Multiplier" means 1.5 for an Officer and 1.0 for an Executive who is not an Officer.
     3. . This Policy does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Company any obligation to retain any Executive as an employee and does not prevent any Executive from terminating employment at any time.
Not an Employment Contract
     4. .
Benefits to Executives
          4.1 .
Compensation
               (a) . If an Executive's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company (other than for Cause, Disability or death) then the Executive shall be entitled to the following benefits:
Termination Without Cause
                    (i) the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the date of termination the aggregate of the following amounts:
                         (A) the Executive's Severance Multiplier times the Executive's annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to the date of termination, (B) the Executive's Severance Multiplier times the Executive's target bonus for the year in which the date of termination occurs and (C) the amount of any accrued vacation pay, to the extent not previously paid; and
                    (ii) for the Executive's Continuation Period, or such longer period as may be provided by the terms of the appropriate plan, program, practice or policy, the Company shall continue to provide medical, dental and life insurance benefits to the Executive and the Executive's family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them if the
 
Executive's employment had not been terminated, in accordance with the applicable benefit plans in effect on the date of termination or, if more favorable to the Executive and the Executive's family, in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies; , , that (A) if the terms of a benefit plan do not permit continued participation therein by a former employee, then an equitable arrangement shall be made by the Company (such as a substitute or alternative plan) to provide as substantially equivalent a benefit as is reasonably possible and (B) if the Executive becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive a particular type of benefit (e.g., medical insurance benefits) from such employer on terms at least as favorable to the Executive and the Executive's family as those being provided by the Company, then the Company shall no longer be required to provide those particular benefits to the Executive and the Executive's family; and
provided
however
                    (iii) to the extent not previously paid or provided, the Company shall timely pay or provide to the Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which the Executive is eligible to receive following the Executive's termination of employment under any plan, program, policy, practice, contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliated companies (other than severance benefits) (such other amounts and benefits described in this clause (iii) shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Other Benefits").
               (b) . If the Company terminates the Executive's employment with the Company because of the Executive's disability, the Executive's death or for Cause, then the Company shall (i) pay the Executive or the Executive's estate, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the date of termination, the Executive's base salary through the date of termination and (ii) timely pay or provide to the Executive the Other Benefits.
Termination for Cause, Disability or Death
          4.2 . In the event the Executive is terminated by the Company (other than for Cause, Disability or death), the Company shall provide outplacement services through one or more outside firms of the Executive's choosing up to an aggregate of $20,000, with such services to extend until the earlier of (i) 12 months following the termination of the Executive's employment or (ii) the date the Executive secures full time employment.
Outplacement Services
          4.3 . The Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or benefits provided for in this Section 4 by seeking other employment or otherwise. Further, except as provided in Section 4.1(a)(ii), the amount of any payment or benefits provided for in this Section 4 shall not be reduced by any compensation earned by the Executive as a result of employment by another employer, by retirement benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by the Executive to the Company or otherwise.
Mitigation
          4.4. . The Executive shall not be entitled to any payments or other benefits hereunder unless the Executive executes and, if applicable, does not revoke, a full and complete release of claims and separation agreement, in the form to be provided by the Company.
Release of Claims by Executive
 
          4.5 . An Officer shall not be entitled to any payments or other benefits hereunder unless the Officer has, prior to the effective date of this Policy, executed a Non-Compete Agreement with the Company providing for a restriction period of 18 months.
Non-Compete Obligations
     5. . All claims by the Executive for benefits under this Agreement shall be directed to and determined by the Board and shall be in writing. Any denial by the Board of a claim for benefits under this Agreement shall be delivered to the Executive in writing and shall set forth the specific reasons for the denial. The Board shall afford a reasonable opportunity to the Executive for a review of the decision denying a claim. Any further dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled exclusively by arbitration in Boston, Massachusetts, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having jurisdiction.
Disputes
     6. .
Successors
          6.1 . The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company expressly to assume and agree to perform this Policy to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as defined above and any successor to its business or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement, by operation of law or otherwise.
Successor to Company
          6.2 . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If the Executive should die while any amount would still be payable to the Executive or the Executive's family hereunder if the Executive had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to the executors, personal representatives or administrators of the Executive's estate.
Successor to Executive
     7. . All notices, instructions and other communications given hereunder or in connection herewith shall be in writing. Any such notice, instruction or communication shall be sent either (i) by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (ii) prepaid via a reputable nationwide overnight courier service, in each case addressed to the Company, at 81 Wyman Street, Waltham, Massachusetts and to the Executive at the Executive's principal residence as currently reflected on the Company's records (or to such other address as either the Company or the Executive may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith). Any such notice, instruction or communication shall be deemed to have been delivered five business days after it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or one business day after it is sent via a reputable nationwide overnight courier service. Either party may give any notice, instruction or other communication hereunder using any other means, but no such notice, instruction or other communication shall be
Notice
 
deemed to have been duly delivered unless and until it actually is received by the party for whom it is intended.
     8. .
Miscellaneous
          8.1 . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Policy shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Policy, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
          8.2 . The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Policy shall be governed by the internal laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to conflicts of law principles.
Governing Law
          8.3 . No waiver by the Executive at any time of any breach of, or compliance with, any provision of this Policy to be performed by the Company shall be deemed a waiver of that or any other provision at any subsequent time.
Waivers
          8.4 . Any payments provided for hereunder shall be paid net of any applicable tax withholding required under federal, state or local law.
Tax Withholding
          8.5 . This Policy may be amended or terminated by the Company at any time; provided that this Section 8.5 shall have no force or effect after the occurrence of a Change of Control.
Amendments
     9. .
Section 409A Compliance
     The following rules shall apply with respect to distribution of the payments and benefits, if any, to be provided to the Executive under this Policy:
          9.1 It is intended that each installment of the payments and benefits provided under Section 4 shall be treated as a separate "payment" for purposes of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the guidance issued thereunder ("Section 409A"). Neither the Company nor the Executive shall have the right to accelerate or defer the delivery of any such payments or benefits except to the extent specifically permitted or required by Section 409A.
          9.2 If, as of the date of the "separation from service" of the Executive from the Company (determined as set forth below), the Executive is not a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A), then each installment of the payments and benefits shall be made on the dates and terms set forth in Section 4.
          9.3 If, as of the date of the "separation from service" of the Executive from the Company, the Executive is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A), then:
 
               (a) Each installment of the payments and benefits due under Section 4, that, in accordance with the dates and terms set forth herein, will in all circumstances, regardless of when the separation from service occurs, be paid within the Short-Term Deferral Period (as hereinafter defined) shall be treated as a short-term deferral within the meaning of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4) to the maximum extent permissible under Section 409A. For purposes of this Policy, the "Short-Term Deferral Period" means the period ending on the later of the 15 day of the third month following the end of the Executive's tax year in which the separation from service occurs and the 15 day of the third month following the end of the Company's tax year in which the separation from service occurs; and
th
th
               (b) Each installment of the payments and benefits due under Section 4 that is not described in clause (a), above, and that would, absent this subsection, be paid within the six-month period following the "separation from service" of the Executive from the Company shall not be paid until the date that is six months and one day after such separation from service (or, if earlier, the Executive's death), with any such installments that are required to be delayed being accumulated during the six-month period and paid in a lump sum on the date that is six months and one day following the Executive's separation from service and any subsequent installments, if any, being paid in accordance with the dates and terms set forth herein; , , that the preceding provisions of this sentence shall not apply to any installment of payments and benefits if and to the maximum extent that that such installment is deemed to be paid under a separation pay plan that does not provide for a deferral of compensation by reason of the application of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) (relating to separation pay upon an involuntary separation from service). Any installments that qualify for the exception under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) must be paid no later than the last day of the Executive's second taxable year following his taxable year in which the separation from service occurs.
provided
however
          9.4 The determination of whether and when a separation from service of the Executive from the Company has occurred shall be made in a manner consistent with, and based on the presumptions set forth in, Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h). Solely for purposes of this Section 9.4, "Company" shall include all persons with whom the Company would be considered a single employer under Section 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code.
          9.5 All reimbursements and in-kind benefits provided under the Policy shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A to the extent that such reimbursements or in-kind benefits are subject to Section 409A.

EXHIBIT 10.3
1. Grant of Option.
     This agreement evidences the grant by Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), on May 15, 2008 (the "Grant Date") to Marc N. Casper (the "Participant"), an employee and officer of the Company, of an Option to purchase, in whole or in part, on the terms provided herein and in the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on November 9, 2006, (the "Plan"), a total of 375,000 shares (the "Shares") of common stock, $1.00 par value per share, of the Company ("Common Stock") at $57.58 per Share. Unless earlier terminated, this Option shall expire at 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, on May 15, 2015 (the "Final Exercise Date").
     It is intended that the Option evidenced by this agreement shall not be an incentive stock Option as defined in Section 422 of the Code. Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the term "Participant", as used in this Option, shall be deemed to include any person who acquires the right to exercise this Option validly under its terms. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined shall have the same meaning as in the Plan.
2. . Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d) through (h) of Section 3 below and the Plan, this Option will become exercisable ("vest") as to 20% of the original number of Shares on the first anniversary of the Grant Date and as to an additional 20% of the original number of Shares at the end of each anniversary of the Grant Date following the first anniversary of the Grant Date until the fifth anniversary of the Grant Date. The right of exercise shall be cumulative so that to the extent the Option is not exercised in any period to the maximum extent permissible it shall continue to be exercisable, in whole or in part, with respect to all Shares for which it is vested until the earlier of the Final Exercise Date or the termination of this Option under Section 3 hereof.
Vesting Schedule
3. .
Exercise of Option
     (a) . Each election to exercise this Option shall be in accordance with the instructions described in "The Guide for Employees of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. Stock Option Plans" as may be amended from time to time. The Participant may purchase less than the number of shares covered hereby, provided that no partial exercise of this Option may be for any fractional share.
Form of Exercise
     (b) . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 3, this Option may not be exercised unless the Participant, at the time he
Continuous Relationship with the Company Required
 
or she exercises this Option, is, and has been at all times since the Grant Date, an employee, officer or director of, or consultant or advisor to, the Company or any other entity the employees, officers, directors, consultants, or advisors of which are eligible to receive Option grants under the Plan (an "Eligible Participant").
     (c) . If the Participant ceases to be an Eligible Participant for any reason, then, except as provided in paragraphs (d)-(h) below, the right to exercise this Option shall terminate three months after such cessation (but in no event after the Final Exercise Date), this Option shall be exercisable only to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise this Option on the date of such cessation.
Termination of Relationship with the Company
provided
that
     (d) . If the Participant dies or becomes disabled (as defined below) prior to the Final Exercise Date while he or she is an Eligible Participant, this Option shall vest and become 100% exercisable upon the date of such death or disability and the right to exercise this Option shall terminate one year following such date (but in no event after the Final Exercise Date). For the purposes of this Agreement, a Participant shall be deemed to be "disabled" at such time as the Participant is receiving disability benefits under the Company's Long Term Disability Coverage, as then in effect.
Death or Disability
     (e) . If the Participant's employment or service is terminated by the Company or any Subsidiary without "Cause" (as defined in the Plan) prior to the Final Exercise Date, this Option shall vest and become 100% exercisable upon the date of such termination of employment or service and the right to exercise this Option shall terminate three months following such date (but in no event after the Final Exercise Date).
Discharge Without Cause
     (f) . If the Participant, prior to the Final Exercise Date, is discharged by the Company or a Subsidiary for "Cause" (as defined in the Plan), the right to exercise this Option shall terminate immediately upon the effective date of such discharge. The Participant shall be considered to have been discharged for Cause if the Company determines, within 30 days after the Participant's resignation, that discharge for Cause was warranted.
Discharge for Cause
     (g) . If the Participant "retires" from the Company or a Subsidiary prior to the Final Exercise Date then, subject to Section 3(e) above, this Option shall vest and become 100% exercisable upon the date of such retirement and the right to exercise this Option shall terminate eighteen months following such date (but in no event after the Final Exercise Date), that the retirement date occurs at least one year after the Grant Date. For the purposes of this Agreement, a Participant shall be deemed to have "retired" (i) in the event of a non-employee director of the Company, when he or she ceases to be a director of the Company and (ii) in the event of an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, upon his or her resignation from employment with the Company or a Subsidiary either (A) after the age of 55 and the completion of 10 continuous years service to the Company or a Subsidiary comprising at least 20 hours per week or (B) after the age of 60 and the completion of 5 continuous years service to the Company or a Subsidiary comprising at least 20 hours per week.
Retirement
provided
     (h) . If the Participant's employment or service is terminated by the Company or any Subsidiary without "Cause" (as defined in the Plan) or by the Participant for "Good Reason" (as defined in the Plan), in each case within 18 months following
Change in Control Event
 
a Change in Control Event, this Option shall vest and become 100% exercisable upon the date of such termination of employment or service and the right to exercise this Option shall terminate one year following such date (but in no event after the Final Exercise Date).
4. . No Shares will be issued pursuant to the exercise of this Option unless and until the Participant pays to the Company, or makes provision satisfactory to the Company for payment of, any federal, state or local withholding taxes required by law to be withheld in respect of this Option in accordance with the instructions therefore described in "The Guide for Employees of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. Stock Option Plans" as may be amended from time to time; , , except as otherwise permitted by the Board, the total tax withholding where stock is being used to satisfy such tax obligations cannot exceed the Company's minimum statutory withholding obligations (based on minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income).
Withholding
provided
however
5. . This Option may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered by the Participant, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the lifetime of the Participant, this Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company consents to the gratuitous transfer of this Option by the Participant to or for the benefit of any immediate family member, family trust or family partnership established solely for the benefit of the Participant and/or an immediate family member thereof; that with respect to such proposed transferee the Company would be eligible to use a Form S-8 for the registration of the sale of the Common Stock subject to such Option under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; and that the Company shall not be required to recognize any such transfer until such time as the Participant and such permitted transferee shall, as a condition to such transfer, deliver to the Company a written instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Company confirming that such transferee shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Nontransferability of Option
provided
provided
further
6. . This Option is subject to the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which is furnished to the Participant with this Option.
Provisions of the Plan
7. . The grant of this Option shall not be construed as giving the Participant the right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company or Subsidiary. The Company and Subsidiaries expressly reserve the right at any time to dismiss or otherwise terminate its relationship with the Participant free from any liability or claim under the Plan or this Agreement, except as expressly provided herein.
No Right To Employment or Other Status
8. . If the Participant engages in any conduct in breach of any noncompetition, nonsolicitation or confidentiality obligations to the Company or any Subsidiary under any agreement, policy or plan of the Company or any Subsidiary, then such conduct shall also be deemed to be a breach of the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. Upon such breach, this Option shall be cancelled and, to the extent some or all of this Option was exercised within a period of 12 months prior to such breach, the Participant shall be required to forfeit to the Company, upon demand, any cash or Shares acquired by the Participant upon such exercise or sale.
Restrictive Covenants
 
9. . This Option shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to any applicable conflicts of law.
Governing Law
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Option to be executed under its corporate seal by its duly authorized officer. This Option shall take effect as a sealed instrument.


