FILE:TMO/TMO-8K-20080424080250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
                 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements are set forth the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
in the Companys
Annual
Report on Form 10-
K
for
the year ended December 31, 2007
, under the caption Risk Factors, which is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available in the Investors section of our Website under the heading SEC Filings.
 
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties relating to: the risk that the
legacy
businesses
of Thermo Electron Corporation (Thermo) and Fisher Scientific International Inc. (Fisher)
will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the
merger of Thermo and Fisher
may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; the need to develop new products and adapt to significant technological change; implementation of strategies for improving internal growth; use and protection of intellectual property; dependence on customers capital spending policies and government funding policies; realization of potential future savings from new productivity initiatives; general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties; the effect of changes in governmental regulations; the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on international operations; the effect of laws and regulations governing government contracts; the effect of competing with certain of our customers and suppliers; and the effect of rapid changes in the healthcare industry.
 
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change and, therefore, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 24, 2008, the Registrant announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 29, 2008.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)           Exhibits
The following Exhibit relating to Item 2.02 shall be deemed furnished, and not filed:
99.1           Press Release dated April 24, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, on this 24 day of April, 2008.
th

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We announced a number of new developments in the quarter that fortify our position as the world leader in serving science. Under our Thermo Scientific brand, we launched exciting new instrumentation that simplifies sophisticated analytical technologies so non-experts can use them for a broader range of applications. We also introduced a new siRNA platform that allows life sciences researchers to study more cell types in their quest to develop better treatments for disease. In addition, our new MRSA diagnostic test is designed to make it easier for doctors to screen patients for staph infection when they are admitted to the hospital. Finally, we published our first Fisher Scientific catalog in Chinese to make our broad portfolio of laboratory supplies available to more customers in that growing market.
Mr. Dekkers added, Primarily as a result of more favorable currency translation, we are raising our revenue guidance for the year and now expect to report full year 2008 revenues in the range of $10.6 to $10.7 billion, resulting in 9 to 10% growth over 2007. The revenue increase also leads us to raise our adjusted EPS guidance for 2008 by $0.02, to a range of $3.07 to $3.17. This would result in 16 to 20% growth in adjusted EPS over our 2007 results. (The 2008 guidance does not include any future acquisitions or divestitures, and is based on present currency exchange rates. In addition, the adjusted EPS estimate excludes amortization expense for acquisition-related intangible assets and certain other items detailed later in this press release under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.)
Management uses adjusted operating results to monitor and evaluate performance of the companys business segments.
Analytical Technologies Segment
Revenues in the Analytical Technologies Segment grew 10% in the first quarter of 2008 to $1.09 billion, compared with revenues of $988 million in the 2007 quarter. Adjusted operating income increased 23% in the first quarter of 2008, and adjusted operating margin rose to 21.0%, versus 18.8% in the 2007 period.
Laboratory Products and Services Segment
In the Laboratory Products and Services Segment, revenues grew 9% in the first quarter of 2008 to $1.57 billion, compared with revenues of $1.43 billion in the 2007 quarter. Adjusted operating income increased 15% in the first quarter of 2008, and adjusted operating margin rose to 13.9%, versus 13.3% in the 2007 period.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to the financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we use certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted EPS, adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin, which exclude restructuring and other costs/income and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Adjusted EPS also excludes certain other gains and losses, tax provisions/benefits related to the previous items, benefits from tax credit carryforwards, the impact of significant tax audits or events and discontinued operations. We exclude the above items because they are outside of our normal operations and/or, in certain cases, are difficult to forecast accurately for future periods. We believe that the use of non-GAAP measures helps investors to gain a better understanding of our
core operating results and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts the companys performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or forecasts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



