FILE:TMO/TMO-8K-20091120164614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Indenture
     On November 13, 2009 Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), agreed to issue and sell to several initial purchasers $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.15% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "2012 Notes") and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.25% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Notes", and together with the 2012 Notes, the "Notes") in a private placement for resale to qualified institutional buyers in reliance upon the exemption from registration in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). On November 20, 2009, the Company entered into an indenture (the "Base Indenture") and a first supplemental indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture", and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture") with The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, pursuant to which the Notes were issued on November 20, 2009.
     The 2012 Notes will mature on December 28, 2012 and the 2014 Notes will mature on November 20, 2014. Interest on the 2012 Notes will accrue at the rate of 2.15% per annum, and interest on the 2014 Notes will accrue at the rate of 3.25% per annum. Interest is payable on the 2012 Notes semi-annually in arrears on June 28 and December 28 of each year, commencing June 28, 2010, and interest on the 2014 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 20 and November 20 of each year, commencing May 20, 2010.
     The Company may redeem the 2012 Notes and the 2014 Notes, in each case, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at its option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect of the Notes being redeemed (not including any portion of the payments of interest accrued but unpaid as of the date of redemption) discounted on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months), at a comparable treasury rate plus 15 basis points, in the case of both the 2012 Notes and the 2014 Notes, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, if any.
     Upon the occurrence of a change of control (as defined in the Indenture) of the Company and a contemporaneous downgrade of the Notes below an investment grade rating by at least two of Moody's Investors Service Inc., Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings Limited, the Company will, in certain circumstances, be required to make an offer to purchase each of the 2012 Notes and the 2014 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the 2012 Notes and 2014 Notes to be repurchased, respectively, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase.
     The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company that are effectively subordinated in right of payment to any secured indebtedness of the Company to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness and to all existing and any future liabilities of its subsidiaries; equal in right of payment with all existing and any future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company; and senior in right of payment to any existing and future indebtedness of the Company that is subordinated to the Notes.
     The Indenture contains limited affirmative and negative covenants of the Company. The negative covenants restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to incur debt secured by liens on its principal property or on shares of stock of its principal subsidiaries, engage in sale and lease-back
 
transactions with respect to any principal property and merge or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of its assets.
     Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Indenture, which includes payment defaults, defaults in the performance of affirmative and negative covenants, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults and failure to pay certain indebtedness, the obligations of the Company under the Notes may be accelerated, in which case the entire principal amount of the Notes would be immediately due and payable.
     The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes to redeem $300,000,000 principal amount of its 6% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at a price equal to 103.375% of principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, and to fund a tender offer to purchase $295,360,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 at a price per $1,000 of principal amount equal to the sum of (A) 42.1372 multiplied by the average daily volume weighted average price per share of the Company's common stock over the twenty-one (21) trading days ending on the expiration date of the tender offer and (B) a fixed cash amount of $56.50, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the notes to, but excluding, the settlement date of the tender offer. Both the tender offer and the redemption have been separately disclosed by the Company in its Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 13, 2009. The Company intends to use any proceeds remaining after the tender offer and redemption for general corporate purposes.
3/4
     The foregoing description of certain of the terms of the Indenture does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Base Indenture, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and the Supplemental Indenture, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.2, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Registration Rights Agreement
     In connection with the closing of the issuance and sale of the Notes (the "Closing"), the Company also entered into an Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2009 (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), with Banc of America Securities LLC and Barclays Capital Inc., as representatives of the initial purchasers.
     Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to file with the SEC on or prior to 150 days after the Closing a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for identical new notes registered under the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the registration statement for the exchange offer to be declared effective on or prior to 200 days after the Closing and to commence and complete the exchange offer promptly, but no later than 45 days after such registration statement has become effective. The deadline for consummation of the exchange offer is 245 days after the Closing. The Company has agreed to file a shelf registration statement with the SEC to cover resales of the Notes if the exchange offer is not consummated by this deadline or in certain other specified circumstances.
     If the Company is unable to meet certain registration obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will be obligated to pay additional interest to each holder of the Notes in an amount equal to 0.25% per year for the first 90-day period (or portion thereof) during which such registration defaults are continuing. After the initial 90-day period, the rate will increase to 0.50% per year and continue for the duration of the period that one or more registration defaults are continuing, provided that once the shelf registration statement is declared effective, additional interest resulting from certain registration defaults relating to the exchange offer registration statement will cease to accrue. The Company shall not be required to pay additional interest for more than one registration default at a time.
 
     The foregoing description of certain of the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Registration Rights Agreement, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     The information set forth above under Item 1.01 under the heading "Indenture" is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
     See Exhibit Index attached hereto.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          THIS INDENTURE is dated as of November 20, 2009 among THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC., a Delaware corporation (the "") and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association (the "").
Company
Trustee
          A. This Indenture provides for the issuance of unsecured debt securities (the ""), in an unlimited aggregate principal amount to be issued from time to time in one or more series, to be authenticated by the certificate of the Trustee.
Securities
          B. This Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act (as defined below) that are deemed to be incorporated into this Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
          C. All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as follows for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of Securities:
     Section 1.01 .
Definitions of Terms
          The terms defined in this Section 1.01 (except as in this Indenture otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section 1.01 and shall include the plural as well as the singular. All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act or that are by reference in the Trust Indenture Act defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires), shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Trust Indenture Act and in the Securities Act as in force at the date of the execution of this instrument. All accounting terms used herein and not expressly defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in accordance with U.S. GAAP at the time of any computation.
Securities Act
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means one or more Global Securities, bearing the Private Placement Legend, that will be issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of the Securities of such series sold in global form in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Security
          "", with respect to any specified Person, means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any
Affiliate
 
specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
          "", with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Security for a series of Securities, means the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange at the relevant time.
Applicable Procedures
          "" means an authenticating agent with respect to all or any of the series of Securities appointed with respect to all or any series of the Securities by the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.10.
Authenticating Agent
          "" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
          "" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such Board of Directors.
Board of Directors
          "" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by its Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.
Board Resolution
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means any day other than Saturday, Sunday or a day on which Federal or State banking institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or in the city where the office or agency for payment on the Securities is maintained pursuant to Section 4.02, are authorized or obligated by law, executive order or regulation to close.
Business Day
          "" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with U.S. GAAP as in effect on the date of the Indenture.
Capital Lease Obligation
          "" of any Person means any and all shares, interests, participations, rights in or other equivalents (however designated) of such Person's capital stock, other equity interests whether now outstanding or issued after the date of this Indenture, partnership interests (whether general or limited), any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person and any rights (other than debt securities convertible into Capital Stock), warrants or options exchangeable for or convertible into such Capital Stock.
Capital Stock
          "" means Clearstream Banking S.A., or its successors.
Clearstream
          "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
          "" means Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. until a successor entity shall have become such pursuant to Article X, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor entity.
Company
          "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its chairman of the Board, its vice chairman of the Board, its president or a vice president, and by its treasurer, an assistant treasurer, its secretary or an assistant secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
          "" means the consolidated total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries as reflected in the Company's most recent balance sheet prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP as in effect at the time of such determination, less (a) all current liabilities (excluding any notes and loans payable, current maturities of long-term debt, the current portion of deferred revenue and obligations under capital leases) and (b) acquisition-related intangible assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Consolidated Net Assets includes the goodwill of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Net Assets
          "" means the office of the Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 222 Berkeley Street, Boston, MA 02116.
Corporate Trust Office
          "" means Dollars or Foreign Currency.
Currency
          "" means any custodian, receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator or other similar official under any proceedings under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
          "" means any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
Default
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Defaulted Interest
          "" means a certificated Security registered in the name of the Securityholder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.05.
Definitive Security
          "", with respect to Securities of any series which the Company shall determine will be issued in whole or in part as a Global Security, means The Depository Trust Company (""), New York, New York, another clearing agency, or any successor registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act, and any other applicable U.S. or foreign statute or regulation, which, in each case, shall be designated by the Company pursuant to Section 2.01.
Depositary
DTC
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.15.
Designated Currency
          "" means the restricted period as defined in Rule 903(b)(3) under the Securities Act.
Distribution Compliance Period
          "" or "" means a U.S. dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Dollar
$
 
          "" means, with respect to any monetary amount in a Foreign Currency, at any time for the determination thereof, the amount of Dollars obtained by converting such Foreign Currency involved in such computation into Dollars at the spot rate for the purchase of Dollars with the applicable Foreign Currency as quoted by a financial institution designated by the Company in New York, New York, at approximately 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the date two business days prior to such determination.
Dollar Equivalent
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.01.
Expiration Date
          "" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., or its successor, as operator of the Euroclear System.
Euroclear
          "", with respect to Securities of a particular series, means any event specified in Section 6.01, continued for the period of time, if any, therein designated.
Event of Default
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
          "" means a currency issued by the government of any country other than the United States or a composite currency the value of which is determined by reference to the values of the currencies of any group of countries.
Foreign Currency
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.01.
Foreign Entity
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.03.
Foreign Jurisdiction
          "" means, as of any date of determination, indebtedness of the Company or the indebtedness of a Subsidiary owning property maturing by its terms more than one year after its creation and indebtedness classified as long-term debt under U.S. GAAP as in effect on the date of the Indenture, and in each case ranking at least pari passu with the Securities.
Funded Debt
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means a Security executed by the Company and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with this Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
Global Security
          "" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States that, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any such Governmental Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Governmental Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt; provided, however, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the
Governmental Obligations
 
custodian in respect of the Governmental Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the Governmental Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt.
          "," "" and "," and other words of similar import, refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
herein
hereof
hereunder
          "" means including without limitation.
including
          "" means, with respect to any specified Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent:
indebtedness
          In addition, the term "indebtedness" includes (x) all indebtedness (as defined above) of others secured by a Lien on any asset of the specified Person (whether or not such indebtedness is assumed by the specified Person), provided that the amount of such indebtedness will be the lesser of (A) the fair market value of such asset at such date of determination and (B) the amount of such indebtedness, and (y) to the extent not otherwise included, the guarantee by the specified Person of any indebtedness (as defined above) of any other Person.
          "" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into in accordance with the terms hereof.
Indenture
          "" means any entity that, with respect to DTC, clears through or maintains a direct or indirect, custodial relationship with a Participant.
Indirect Participant
          "" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
          "" when used with respect to any installment of interest on a Security of a particular series, means the date specified herein, in such Security or in a Board Resolution or in an indenture supplemental hereto with respect to such series as the fixed date on which an installment of interest with respect to Securities of that series is due and payable.
Interest Payment Date,
          "" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement.
Lien
          "" means any managing director, the chairman or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer, the president, the chief financial officer, the chief
Officer
 
operating officer, the chief accounting officer, the controller, the general counsel, any vice president, the treasurer, any assistant treasurer, the secretary or any assistant secretary of the Company.
          "" means a certificate, signed by any managing director or by the chairman or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors, or the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or vice president or the secretary or any assistant secretary or the treasurer or any assistant treasurer of the Company that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such certificate shall include the statements provided for in Section 13.06, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof.
Officer's Certificate
          "" means an opinion in writing of legal counsel, who may be an Officer or employee of or counsel for the Company that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such opinion shall include the statements provided for in Section 13.06, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof. Opinions of Counsel may rely on certificates of the Company or governmental or other officials customary for opinions of the type required, including certificates certifying as to matters of fact.
Opinion of Counsel
          "" means a Security that provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01.
Original Issue Discount Security
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.03.
Other Additional Amounts
          "", when used with reference to Securities of any series, subject to the provisions of Section 8.04, means, as of any particular time, all Securities of such series authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except
Outstanding
          (a) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
          (b) Securities, or portions thereof, for the payment or redemption of which funds in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any paying agent other than the Company, or, if the Company shall act as its own paying agent, shall have been set aside, segregated and held in trust by the Company for the Holders of such Securities, provided that if such Securities, or portions thereof, are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been given as herein provided, or provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice; and
          (c) Securities in substitution for which other Securities shall have been authenticated and delivered, or which shall have been paid, pursuant to the terms of Section 2.07, except with respect to any such Security as to which proof satisfactory to the Trustee is presented that such Security is held by a person in whose hands such Security is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company.
          In determining whether the holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any series have given any request, demand, authorization, direction,
 
notice, consent or waiver hereunder, the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01 and the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more currencies that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be based on the Dollar Equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount of such Security.
          "", with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, means a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
          "" means an offering of Securities of a series from time to time, during which any or all of the specific terms of the Securities, including the rate or rates of interest, if any, thereon, the maturity or maturities thereof and the redemption provisions, if any, with respect thereto, are to be determined by the Company or its agents upon the issuance of such Securities in accordance with the terms of the relevant Supplemental Indenture.
Periodic Offering
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.07.
Permitted Liens
          "" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, joint-stock company, association, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof; , , for the purposes of Article X, "Person" shall not include any individual, joint venture, association, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
provided
however
          "" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 2.07 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security
          "" means any single parcel of real property or any permanent improvement thereon (i) owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries located in the United States, including the Company's principal corporate office, any manufacturing facility or plant or any portion thereof and (ii) having a book value, as of the date of determination, in excess of 3% of the Company's most recently calculated Consolidated Net Assets. Principal Property does not include any property that the Board of Directors has determined not to be of material importance to the business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Principal Property
          "" means any direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company that owns a Principal Property.
Principal Subsidiary
          "" means the legend set forth in Section 2.02(b) to be placed on all Restricted Securities issued under this Indenture or pursuant to a Board Resolution or an indenture supplemental hereto with respect to a series of Securities, except where specifically stated otherwise by the provisions of this Indenture, such Board Resolution or such supplemental indenture.
Private Placement Legend
 
          "" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
          "" means, with respect to any series of Securities, a Regulation S Temporary Global Security of such series, if required by Rule 903 of Regulation S, or a Regulation S Permanent Global Security of such series, as the case may be.
Regulation S Global Security
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means one or more permanent Global Securities, bearing the Private Placement Legend, that will be issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of the Securities of such series initially sold or, if required by Rule 903 of Regulation S, of the Regulation S Temporary Global Security of such series upon expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period with respect to such series, as the case may be.
Regulation S Permanent Global Security
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means one or more temporary Global Securities, bearing the Private Placement Legend, and the Regulation S Temporary Global Security Legend issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of the Securities of such series initially sold, if required by Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Regulation S Temporary Global Security
          "" means the legend set forth in Section 2.02(d), which is required to be placed on all Regulation S Temporary Global Securities issued under this Indenture.
Regulation S Temporary Global Security Legend
          "" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and any successor provision thereto.
Regulation S
          "" means any vice president, any trust officer, any assistant trust officer, any assistant vice president, any assistant treasurer, or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means one or more Definitive Securities of such series bearing the Private Placement Legend issued under this Indenture.
Restricted Definitive Security
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means one or more Global Securities of such series bearing the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Restricted Global Security
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means a Security of such series, unless or until it has been (i) effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with a registration statement with respect to such series or (ii) eligible to be resold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any similar provision then in force).
Restricted Security
          "" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and any successor provision thereto.
Rule 144A
 
          "" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company of any Principal Property which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to such Person, excluding (1) temporary leases for a term, including renewals at the option of the lessee, of not more than three years, (2) leases between the Company and a Subsidiary or between Subsidiaries of the Company, (3) leases of a Principal Property executed by the time of, or within 12 months after the latest of, the acquisition, the completion of construction or improvement, or the commencement of commercial operation of the property, and (4) arrangements pursuant to any provision of law with an effect similar to the former Section 168(f)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
          "" means the securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
Securities
          "" "" "" "" or other similar term, means the Person or Persons in whose name or names a particular Security shall be registered on the books of the Company kept for that purpose in accordance with the terms of this Indenture.
Securityholder,
Holder,
holder of Securities,
registered holder,
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.05(a).
Security Register
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.05(a).
Security Registrar
          "", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
          "", with respect to any Person, means any other Person of which at least a majority of the outstanding Voting Stock at the time is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by such Person or by one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.03.
Taxes
          "" means The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. and, subject to the provisions of Article VII, shall include its successors and assigns. The term "Trustee" as used with respect to a particular series of the Securities shall mean the trustee with respect to that series.
Trustee
          "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in effect at the date of execution of this instrument subject to the provisions of Sections 9.01, 9.02, and 10.01.
Trust Indenture Act
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means one or more Definitive Securities representing such series of Securities that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Unrestricted Definitive Security
 
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means one or more permanent Global Securities representing such series of Securities that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Unrestricted Global Security
          "", with respect to any series of Securities, means a Security (i) effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with a registration statement with respect to such series or (ii) distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any similar provision then in force).
Unrestricted Securities
          "" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect from time to time.
U.S. GAAP
          "" means, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the net present value of the lease payments (other than amounts required to be paid on account of property taxes, maintenance, repairs, insurance, water rates and other items that do not constitute payments for property rights) with respect to the term of the lease remaining on the date as of which the amount is being determined, without regard to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease, discounted at the weighted average interest rate on the Securities of all series (including the yield to maturity on any Original Issue Discount Securities) which are outstanding on the effective date of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction.
Value
          "" of a Person means Capital Stock of such Person of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
     Section 2.01 .
Designation and Terms of Securities
          (a) The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more series up to the aggregate principal amount of Securities of that series from time to time authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company or pursuant to one or more indentures supplemental hereto. Prior to the initial issuance of Securities of any series, there shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, and set forth in an Officer's Certificate of the Company, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, with respect to the Securities of the series:
               (1) the title of the Security of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
 
               (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, other Securities of that series);
               (3) the date or dates on which the principal and premium, if any, of the Securities of the series is payable;
               (4) the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable) at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest or the manner of calculation of such rate or rates, if any (including any procedures to vary or reset such rate or rates), and the basis upon which interest will be calculated if other than that of a 360 day year of twelve 30-day months;
               (5) the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest will be payable or the manner of determination of such Interest Payment Dates, and the record date for the determination of holders to whom interest is payable on any such Interest Payment Dates;
               (6) any trustees, authenticating agents or paying agents with respect to such series, if different from those set forth in this Indenture;
               (7) the right, if any, to extend the interest payment periods or defer the payment of interest and the duration of such extension or deferral;
               (8) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;
               (9) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions (including payments made in cash in anticipation of future sinking fund obligations) or at the option of a holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
               (10) the form of the Securities of the series including the form of the Trustee's certificate of authentication for such series;
               (11) if other than denominations of $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which the Securities of the series shall be issuable;
               (12) the Currency or Currencies in which payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, Securities of the series shall be payable;
               (13) if the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of Securities of the series will not be determinable as of any one or more dates prior to such Stated Maturity, the amount which will be deemed to be such principal amount as of any such
 
date for any purpose, including the principal amount thereof which will be due and payable upon any maturity other than the Stated Maturity or which will be deemed to be Outstanding as of any such date (or, in any such case, the manner in which such deemed principal amount is to be determined);
               (14) the terms of any repurchase or remarketing rights;
               (15) if the Securities of the series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of a Global Security or Securities, the type of Global Security to be issued; the terms and conditions, if different from those contained in this Indenture, upon which such Global Security or Securities may be exchanged in whole or in part for other individual Securities in definitive registered form; the Depositary for such Global Security or Securities; and the form of any legend or legends to be borne by any such Global Security or Securities in addition to or in lieu of the legends referred to in Section 2.02;
               (16) whether the Securities of the series will be convertible into or exchangeable for other Securities, common shares or other securities of any kind of the Company or another obligor, and, if so, the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible or exchangeable, including the initial conversion or exchange price or rate or the method of calculation, how and when the conversion price or exchange ratio may be adjusted, whether conversion or exchange is mandatory, at the option of the holder or at the Company's option, the conversion or exchange period, and any other provision in addition to or in lieu of those described herein;
               (17) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01;
               (18) any additional restrictive covenants or Events of Default that will apply to the Securities of the series, or any changes to the restrictive covenants set forth in Article IV or the Events of Default set forth in Section 6.01 that will apply to the Securities of the series, which may consist of establishing different terms or provisions from those set forth in Article IV or Section 6.01 or eliminating any such restrictive covenant or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of the series;
               (19) any provisions granting special rights to holders when a specified event occurs;
               (20) if the amount of principal or any premium or interest on Securities of a series may be determined with reference to an index or pursuant to a formula, the manner in which such amounts will be determined;
               (21) any special tax implications of the Securities, including provisions for Original Issue Discount Securities, if offered;
               (22) whether and upon what terms Securities of a series may be defeased if different from the provisions set forth in this Indenture;
 
               (23) with regard to the Securities of any series that do not bear interest, the dates for certain required reports to the Trustee;
               (24) whether the Securities of the series will be issued as Unrestricted Securities or Restricted Securities, and, if issued as Restricted Securities, the rule or regulation promulgated under the Securities Act in reliance on which they will be sold; and
               (25) any and all additional, eliminated or changed terms that shall apply to the Securities of the series, including any terms that may be required by or advisable under United States laws or regulations (including the Securities Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) or advisable in connection with the marketing of Securities of that series.
          (b) All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical, except that Securities of any particular series may be issued at various times, in different denominations, with different currency of payments due thereunder, with different dates on which the principal or any installment of principal is payable, with different rates of interest, if any, or different methods by which rates of interest may be determined, with different dates from which such interest may accrue or on which such interest may be payable, and with different redemption dates, except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to any such Board Resolution or in any supplemental indenture. If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officer's Certificate of the Company setting forth the terms of the series. The terms of the Securities of any series may provide that such Securities shall be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee upon original issuance from time to time upon written order of persons designated in such Board Resolution or supplemental indenture and that such persons are authorized to determine, consistent with such Board Resolution or supplemental indenture, such terms and conditions of the Securities of such series.
     Section 2.02 .
Form of Securities and Trustee's Certificate
          (a) The Securities of any series and the Trustee's certificate of authentication to be borne by such Securities shall be substantially of the tenor as set forth in an indenture supplemental hereto or as provided in a Board Resolution of the Company and as set forth in an Officer's Certificate of the Company and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, any Board Resolution or any indenture supplemental hereto, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which Securities of that series may be listed, or to conform to usage.
 
          (b) Each Restricted Security (and all Restricted Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear a Private Placement Legend in substantially the following form:
"THE SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) EVIDENCED HEREBY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) SUCH SECURITY MAY BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED ONLY (1)(a) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (b) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A NON-U.S. PERSON IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (c) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF APPLICABLE) OR (d) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS), (2) TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AFFILIATES OR (3) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN CLAUSE (A) ABOVE. NO REPRESENTATION CAN BE MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF THE EXEMPTION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 FOR RESALE OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY."
          (c) To the extent required by the Depositary for particular series of Securities, each Global Security of such series shall bear legends in substantially the following forms:
"THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE ANY SUCH NOTATIONS
 
HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.05(C) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY."
"UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR TO ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ANY ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO SUCH ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
          (d) To the extent required by the Depositary, each Regulation S Temporary Global Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
"THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SECURITY, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR DEFINITIVE SECURITIES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN)."
     Section 2.03 .
Denominations; Provisions for Payment
          The Securities shall be issuable as registered Securities and in the denominations of $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof, subject to Section 2.01(a)(11). The Securities of a particular series shall bear interest payable on the dates and at the rate specified as provided in Section 2.01 with respect to that series. The principal of and the interest on the Securities of any series, as well as any premium thereon in case of redemption thereof prior to maturity, shall be payable in Dollars except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(12), at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose pursuant to Section 4.02. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. Unless otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01(a)(4), interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months.
 
          The interest installment on any Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for Securities of that series shall be paid to the Person in whose name said Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest installment. In the event that any Security of a particular series or portion thereof is called for redemption and the redemption date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Security will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Security as provided in Section 3.03.
          Unless otherwise set forth in a Board Resolution or one or more indentures supplemental hereto establishing the terms of any series of any Securities pursuant to Section 2.01, the term "regular record date" as used in this Section 2.03 with respect to a series of Securities shall mean a date 15 days immediately preceding any Interest Payment Date. Subject to the provisions of this Section 2.03, each Security of a series delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security of such series shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, that were carried by such other Security.
          Unless otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, any interest on any Security that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for such Security ("") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holder on the relevant regular record date, and such Defaulted Interest shall be paid by the Company, at its election, as provided in clause (1) or clause (2) below.
Defaulted Interest
               (1) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner: the Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee funds in an amount equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such funds when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as provided in this clause (1). Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall not be more than 15 nor less than ten days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than ten days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee promptly shall notify the Company of such special record date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Securityholder at his or her address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than ten days prior to such special record date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names
 
such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered on such special record date and shall not be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
               (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on any Securities in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange.
     Section 2.04 .
Execution and Authentications
          The Securities shall be signed on behalf of the Company by any member of the Board of Directors of the Company or by both (a) its president, chief financial officer or vice president and (b) its secretary, any assistant secretary, its treasurer or any assistant treasurer. Signatures may be in the form of a manual or facsimile signature. In the case of Definitive Securities of any series, such signatures may be imprinted or otherwise reproduced on such Securities. The Securities may contain such notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication by the Trustee.
          A Security shall not be valid until authenticated manually by an authorized signatory of the Trustee or by an Authenticating Agent. Such signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and that the holder is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, signed by an Officer (an ""), and the Trustee in accordance with such written order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities.
Authentication Order
          Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.01 and the preceding paragraph, in the case of Securities offered in a Periodic Offering, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Securities from time to time in accordance with instructions or such other procedures acceptable to the Trustee as may be specified by or pursuant to a supplemental indenture or the written order of the Company delivered to the Trustee prior to the time of the first authentication of Securities of such series. With respect to Securities of a series subject to a Periodic Offering, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the authorization by the Company of any of such Securities, the forms and terms thereof and the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability thereof, upon the written order of the Company, Opinion of Counsel, Officer's Certificate and other documents delivered pursuant to this Section 2.04 at or prior to the time of the first authentication of Securities of such series unless and until such written order, Opinion of Counsel, Officer's Certificate or other documents have been superseded or revoked or expire by their terms.
     Section 2.05 .
Transfer and Exchange
          (a) . The Company shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its office or agency designated for such purpose as provided in Section 4.02,
Registration of Transfer and Exchange
 
a register or registers (the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall register the Securities and the transfers of Securities as provided in this Article II and which at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the Trustee. The registrar for the purpose of registering Securities and the transfer of Securities as herein provided shall be appointed as authorized by Board Resolution (the ""). If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Security Registrar, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Security Registrar.
Security Register
Security Registrar
          To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute a new Security or Securities of the same series as the Security presented for a like aggregate principal amount and in authorized denominations and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Security or Securities upon receipt of an Authentication Order. The Trustee shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Security selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
          All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same indebtedness, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Prior to such due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Security, the Trustee, the Company, any paying agent and the Security Registrar may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Securities and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, the Company, the paying agent or the Security Registrar shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          All certifications, certificates and opinions of counsel required to be submitted to the Trustee pursuant to this Section 2.05 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
          (b) . No service charge shall be payable by a holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Security or by a Holder of a Definitive Security for any exchange or registration of transfer of Securities, or for any issue of new Securities in case of partial redemption of any series, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge in relation thereto (other than any such taxes or other governmental charge payable upon exchange or registration of transfer pursuant to Sections 2.06, 3.03(b) and 9.04).
Service Charge
          (c) . A Global Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary for a series of the Securities to a nominee of such Depositary, by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or to another nominee of such Depositary or by such Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary for a series of the Securities or a nominee of such successor Depositary. If at any time the Depositary for a series of the Securities notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such series or if at any time the Depositary for such series shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Exchange Act or other applicable statute or regulation, and a successor Depositary for such series is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities
 
the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, the provisions of Section 2.11 shall no longer be applicable to the Securities of such series. In addition, (i) the Company may at any time determine that the Securities of any series shall no longer be represented by a Global Security and that the provisions of Section 2.11 shall no longer apply to the Securities of such series and (ii) upon an Event of Default if the Trustee so requests, the Securities of any series shall no longer be represented by a Global Security and the provisions of Section 2.11 shall no longer apply to the Securities of such series. In any such event the Company will execute the Definitive Securities of such series, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security of such series and subject to this Section 2.05 the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate evidencing such determination by the Company, if applicable, will authenticate and deliver such Definitive Securities in exchange for such Global Security. Upon the exchange of the Global Security of such series for such Definitive Securities of such series, the Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee. Such Definitive Securities shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its Participants or Indirect Participants or otherwise, shall in writing instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Depositary for delivery to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
          Except as provided in Sections 2.06 and 2.07, a Global Security may not be exchanged for another Security other than as provided in this Section 2.05(c); however, beneficial interests in a Global Security may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.05(d) or (e). The provisions of this Section 2.05(c) are subject to Section 2.11.
          (d) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities of a series shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture, any Board Resolution and any one or more indentures supplemental hereto, and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities of a series shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Securities
               (1) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Security of a series may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Security in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend. Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Security of a series may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series. Subject to Section 2.05(e)(4), no written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Security Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.05(d)(1).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Security
               (2) . Subject to Section 2.05(c), in connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.05(d)(1) above, the
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
 
transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Security Registrar, as applicable, either:
                    (A) (1) an order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security of such series in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or
                    (B) (1) an order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Security of such series in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Security shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (B)(1) above;
provided that in no event shall Definitive Securities of a series be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Security of such series prior to (y) the expiration of the relevant Distribution Compliance Period and (z) the receipt by the Security Registrar of any certificates identified by the Company or its counsel to be required pursuant to Rule 903 and Rule 904 under the Securities Act. Upon satisfaction of all the requirements for transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities of a series contained in this Indenture, any Board Resolution, or one or more indentures supplemental hereto and the Securities of such series or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Security or Securities of such series pursuant to Section 2.05(h).
               (3) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security of a series may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Security of the same series if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.05(d)(2) and the Security Registrar receives a completed certificate in the form of Exhibit A.
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Security
               (4) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security of any series may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.05(d)(2) above and the Security Registrar receives a completed certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit A or Exhibit B, as applicable, and an opinion of counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security
 
with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
          If any such transfer is effected at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security of such series has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.04, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities of such series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests so transferred. Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Security of a series cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series.
          (e) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Securities
          Subject to Section 2.05(c),
               (1) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of a series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Security of such series or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security of such series, then, upon receipt by the Security Registrar of a completed certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit A or Exhibit B, as applicable, and certificates and opinions of counsel, if applicable, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Security of such series to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.05(h), and the Company shall execute a Restricted Definitive Security of such series in the appropriate principal amount and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order pursuant to Section 2.04, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions such Restricted Definitive Security. Any Restricted Definitive Security of such series issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series pursuant to this Section 2.05(e) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary for such series and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Restricted Definitive Securities of such series to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Any Restricted Definitive Security of such series issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series pursuant to this Section 2.05(e)(1) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
               (2) . A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of a series may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series only if the Security
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
Registrar receives a completed certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit A or Exhibit B, as applicable, and an opinion of counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
               (3) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of a series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.05(d)(2), the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Unrestricted Global Security of such series to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.05(h), and the Company shall execute an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series in the appropriate principal amount and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.04, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions such Unrestricted Definitive Security. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.05(e)(3) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary for such series and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Unrestricted Definitive Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.05(e)(3) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
               (4) . Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 2.05, a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Temporary Global Security of a series may not be (A) exchanged for a Definitive Security of such series prior to (y) the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period with respect to such series (unless such exchange is effected by the Company, does not require an investment decision on the part of the Holder thereof and does not violate the provisions of Regulation S) and (z) the receipt by the Security Registrar of any certificates identified by the Company or its counsel to be required pursuant to Rule 903(b)(3)(ii)(B) under the Securities Act or (B) transferred to a U.S. person (as such term is defined in Regulation S) or for the account or benefit of a U.S. person (other than an initial purchaser of such Regulation S Temporary Global Security) or a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Security of such series prior to the events set forth in clause (A) above or unless the transfer is pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or 904.
Transfer or Exchange of Regulation S Temporary Global Securities
 
          (f) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Beneficial Interests
               (1) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security of a series proposes to exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Securities of such series to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
                    (A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security of such series proposes to exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series, a completed certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B; or
                    (B) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act or to a non-U.S. person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or 904 under the Securities Act, a completed certificate to that effect set forth in Exhibit A, the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Security of such series, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Security of such series and, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Security of such series or the Regulation S Global Security of such series as applicable.
               (2) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security of a series may exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series or transfer such Restricted Definitive Security of such series to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series only if the Security Registrar receives a completed certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit A or Exhibit B, as applicable, and an opinion of counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.05(f)(2), the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Securities of such series so transferred or exchanged and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Security of such series.
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
               (3) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of a series may exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series or transfer such Definitive Securities of such series to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series at any time. Upon receipt of a written request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
 
Security and increase or cause or be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Securities of such series. If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Security of a series to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (2) or (3) of this Section 2.05(f) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security of such series has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.04, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities of such series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Securities of such series so transferred.
          (g) . Upon written request by a Holder of Definitive Securities of a series and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.05(g), the Trustee shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Securities of such series pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05(a). In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 2.05(a), the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents, and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.05(g).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Definitive Securities
               (1) . Any Restricted Definitive Security of a series may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security of such series if the Trustee receives a completed certificate in the form of Exhibit A, including the certifications, certificates and opinions of counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
Restricted Definitive Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
               (2) . Any Restricted Definitive Security of a series may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series if the Security Registrar receives a completed certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit A or Exhibit B, as applicable and an opinion of counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Restricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
               (3) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Securities of a series may transfer such Securities to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series in accordance with subsection 2.05(a). Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Security Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Securities of such series pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
          (h) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Security of a series have been exchanged for Definitive Securities of such series or a particular Global Security of a series has been redeemed, repurchased or cancelled in whole and not in part, each such Global Security of such series shall
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Securities
 
be returned to or retained and cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.08. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Security of such series is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security of such series or for Definitive Securities of such series, the principal amount of Securities of such series represented by such Global Security shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement may be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security of such series, such other Global Security shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement may be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
          (i) . The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, exchange or register the transfer of any Securities during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all the Outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Securities of any series or portions thereof called for redemption, nor (iii) to register the transfer of or exchange a Security of any series between the applicable record date pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(5) and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
No Exchange or Transfer
     Section 2.06 .
Temporary Securities
          Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute temporary Securities (printed, lithographed or typewritten) of any authorized denomination and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. Such temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, but with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Securities, all as may be determined by the Company. Every temporary Security of any series shall be executed by the Company and be authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with like effect, as the definitive Securities of such series. Without unnecessary delay the Company will execute and will furnish definitive Securities of such series and thereupon any or all temporary Securities of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor without charge to the holders, at the office or agency of the Company maintained pursuant to Section 4.02 for the purpose of exchanges of Securities of such series, and the Trustee shall authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in exchange for such temporary Securities an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of such series, unless the Company advises the Trustee to the effect that definitive Securities need not be executed and furnished until further notice from the Company. Until so exchanged, temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series authenticated and delivered hereunder.
     Section 2.07 .
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Securities
          In case any temporary or definitive Security shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company (subject to the next succeeding sentence) shall execute a
 
new Security of the same series, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Security so destroyed, lost or stolen, and upon the Company's written request the Trustee (subject to the next succeeding sentence) shall authenticate and deliver, such Security. In every case the applicant for a substituted Security shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of the applicant's Security and of the ownership thereof. The Trustee may authenticate any such substituted Security and deliver the same upon the written request or authorization of any Officer. Upon the issuance of any substituted Security, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith. In case any Security that has matured or is about to mature shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company, instead of issuing a substitute Security, may pay or authorize the payment of the same (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Security) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as they may require to save them harmless, and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to the satisfaction of the Company and the Trustee of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership thereof.
          Every replacement Security issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2.07 shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Company whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be found at any time, or be enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of the same series duly issued hereunder. All Securities shall be held and owned upon the express condition that the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities, and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) any and all other rights or remedies, notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.
     Section 2.08 .
Cancellation
          All Securities surrendered for the purpose of payment, redemption, exchange or registration of transfer, if surrendered to the Company or any paying agent, shall be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be cancelled by it, and no Securities shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly required or permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture. On written request of the Company at the time of such surrender, the Trustee shall deliver to the Company canceled Securities held by the Trustee. If the Company shall otherwise acquire any of the Securities, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
     Section 2.09 .
Benefits of Indenture
          Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and the holders of the Securities, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Indenture, or under any covenant, condition or provision herein contained; all such covenants, conditions and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and of the holders of the Securities.
     Section 2.10 .
Authenticating Agent
          So long as any of the Securities of any series remain Outstanding, there may be an Authenticating Agent for any or all such series of Securities which the Trustee shall have the right to appoint. The Authenticating Agent shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series, including Securities issued upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. All references in this Indenture to the authentication of Securities by the Trustee shall be deemed to include authentication by an Authenticating Agent for such series. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall be a corporation that has a combined capital and surplus, as most recently reported or determined by it, sufficient under the laws of any jurisdiction under which it is organized or in which it is doing business to conduct a trust business, and that is otherwise authorized under such laws to conduct such business and is subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authorities. If at any time any Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with these provisions, it shall resign immediately. Any Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee at any time may, and upon request by the Company shall, terminate the agency of any Authenticating Agent by giving written notice of termination to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon resignation, termination or cessation of eligibility of any Authenticating Agent, the Trustee may appoint an eligible successor Authenticating Agent acceptable to the Company. Any successor Authenticating Agent, upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder, shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent pursuant hereto.
     Section 2.11 .
Global Securities
          (a) . If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 2.01 that the Securities of a particular series are to be issued as a Global Security, then the Company shall execute one or more Global Securities that (i) shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all of the Outstanding Securities of such series, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and (iii) shall be delivered to the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary or otherwise delivered pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.04 shall authenticate such Global Security or Global Securities.
General
          (b) . The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and the "Terms and Conditions Governing Use
Euroclear and Clearstream Procedures Applicable
 
of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream, respectively, in effect at the relevant time shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Securities of such series that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Clearstream.
     Section 2.12 .
CUSIP Numbers
          The Company in issuing the Securities of a series may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Securityholders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
     Section 2.13 .
Securities Denominated in Foreign Currencies
          Except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.01 for Securities of any series, payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, Securities of such series denominated in any Foreign Currency will be made in such Foreign Currency.
          In the event any Foreign Currency or Currencies in which any payment with respect to any series of Securities may be made ceases to be a freely convertible Currency on United States Currency markets, for any date thereafter on which payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of a series is due, the Company shall select the Currency of payment for use on such date, all as provided in the Securities of such series, in a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto. In such event, the Company shall notify the Trustee of the Currency which it has selected to constitute the funds necessary to meet the Company's obligations on such payment date and of the amount of such Currency to be paid. Such amount shall be determined as provided in the Securities of such series, in a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto. The payment with respect to such payment date shall be deposited with the Trustee by the Company solely in the Currency so selected.
     Section 2.14 .
Wire Transfers
          Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Indenture, the Company may make any payment required to be deposited with the Trustee on account of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, the Securities by any method of wire transfer to an account designated in writing by the Trustee such that funds are available on or before the date such payment is to be made to the Holders of the Securities in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
          The Company may provide pursuant to Section 2.01 for Securities of any series that:
     (a) the obligation, if any, of the Company to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of any series in a Foreign Currency or Dollars (the "") as may be specified pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(12) is of the essence and agree that, to the fullest extent possible under applicable law, judgments in respect of Securities of such series shall be given in the Designated Currency;
Designated Currency
     (b) the obligation of the Company to make payments in the Designated Currency of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Securities shall be discharged, notwithstanding any payment in any other Currency (whether pursuant to a judgment or otherwise), only to the extent of the amount in the Designated Currency that the Securityholder receiving such payment, in accordance with normal banking procedures, may purchase with the amount paid in such other Currency after any premium and cost of exchange on the business day in the country of issue of the Designated Currency or in the international banking community immediately following the day on which such Securityholder receives such payment;
     (c) if the amount in the Designated Currency that may be so purchased for any reason falls short of the amount originally due, the Company shall pay such additional amounts as may be necessary to compensate for such shortfall; and
     (d) any obligation of the Company not discharged by such payment shall be due as a separate and independent obligation and, until discharged as provided herein, shall continue in full force and effect.
     Section 3.01 .
Redemption
          The Company may redeem the Securities of any series issued hereunder on and after the dates and in accordance with the terms established for such series pursuant to Section 2.01.
     Section 3.02 .
Notice of Redemption
          (a) If the Company desires to exercise such right to redeem all or, as the case may be, a portion of the Securities of any series, the Company shall, or shall instruct the Trustee in writing to, give notice of such redemption to holders of the Securities of such series to be redeemed by mailing, first class postage prepaid, a notice of such redemption not less than 15 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption of that series to such holders at their last addresses as they shall appear upon the Security Register (unless a shorter period is specified in the Securities to be redeemed). Any notice that is mailed in the manner
 
herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the registered holder receives the notice. In any case, failure duly to give such notice to the holder of any Security of any series designated for redemption in whole or in part, or any defect in the notice, shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Securities of such series or any other series. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officer's Certificate evidencing compliance with any such restriction.
          Each such notice of redemption shall specify the date fixed for redemption and the redemption price at which Securities of that series are to be redeemed, and shall state that: (i) payment of the redemption price of such Securities to be redeemed will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose, or, if none, at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, upon presentation and surrender of such Securities; (ii) interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in said notice; (iii) from and after said date interest will cease to accrue; (iv) the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case, and (v) the CUSIP and/or other similar number as contemplated by, and containing the disclaimers and other language contemplated by, Section 2.12. If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the notice to the holders of Securities of that series to be redeemed in whole or in part shall specify the particular Securities to be so redeemed. In case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice that relates to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed, and shall state that on and after the redemption date, upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities of such series in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued.
          (b) If all or less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the Company shall give the Trustee at least 15 days' written notice (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) in advance of the date the Company gives notice to the Securityholders of the date fixed for redemption as to the aggregate principal amount of Securities of the series to be redeemed. If less than all the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee thereupon shall select from Securities of such series Outstanding not previously called for redemption, in accordance with a method determined by the Company (in such manner as complies with applicable legal and stock exchange requirements, if any) and that may provide for the selection of a portion or portions (equal to $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of such Securities of such series of a denomination larger than $1,000, the Securities of such series to be redeemed. The Trustee promptly shall notify the Company in writing of the numbers of the Securities of such series to be redeemed, in whole or in part.
          The Company, if and whenever it shall so elect, by delivery of instructions signed on its behalf by any of its Officers, may instruct the Trustee or any paying agent to call all or any part of the Securities of a particular series for redemption and to give notice of redemption in the manner set forth in this Section 3.02, such notice to be in the name of the Company or its own name, as the Trustee or such paying agent may deem advisable. In any case in which notice of redemption is to be given by the Trustee or any such paying agent, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered to, or permit to remain with, the Trustee or such paying agent, as the case may be, such Security Register, transfer books or other records, or suitable copies or extracts
 
therefrom, sufficient to enable the Trustee or such paying agent to give any notice by mail that may be required under the provisions of this Section 3.02.
     Section 3.03 .
Payment Upon Redemption
          (a) If the giving of notice of redemption shall have been completed as above provided, the Securities or portions of Securities of the series to be redeemed specified in such notice shall become due and payable on the date and at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption, in each case as established pursuant to Section 2.01. Interest on such Securities or portions of Securities shall cease to accrue on and after the date fixed for redemption, unless the Company shall default in the payment of such redemption price and accrued interest with respect to any such Security or portion thereof. On presentation and surrender of such Securities on or after the date fixed for redemption at the place of payment specified in the notice, such Securities shall be paid and redeemed at the applicable redemption price for such series, together with interest accrued thereon to the date fixed for redemption; provided, that, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the date fixed for redemption shall be payable to the Securityholders of such Securities (or one or more Predecessor Securities) registered as such at the close of business on the applicable record date pursuant to Section 2.03.
          (b) Upon presentation of any Security of such series that is to be redeemed in part only, the Company shall execute a new Security of the same series and tenor of authorized denominations in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security so presented and the Trustee shall authenticate, and the office or agency where the Security is presented shall deliver to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, such Security; except that if a Global Security is so surrendered, the Company shall execute a new Global Security of like tenor in a denomination equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Global Security so surrendered and, upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate requesting authentication and delivery, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Depositary for such Global Security, without service charge, such Global Security.
     Section 3.04 .
Sinking Fund
          The provisions of this Section 3.04 and Sections 3.05 and 3.06 shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of such series.
          The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 3.05. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
 
     Section 3.05 .
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
          The Company (i) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any Securities previously called for redemption) and (ii) may apply as a credit Securities of a series that have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities, provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the redemption price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
     Section 3.06 .
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
          Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of the series, the portion thereof, if any, that is to be satisfied by payment of cash in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are denominated (except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01), the portion thereof, if any, that is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 3.05 and the basis for such credit. Together with such Officer's Certificate, the Company will deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 15 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 3.02 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 3.02. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Section 3.03.
          The following covenants shall apply to the Securities, except with respect to any series of Securities for which the supplemental indenture or resolution of the Board of Directors under which such series of Securities is issued or in the form of Security for such series expressly provides that any such covenant shall not apply to such series of Securities:
     Section 4.01 .
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
          The Company will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of a series at the time and place and in the manner provided herein and established with respect to such Securities.
 
     Section 4.02 .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
          So long as any series of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Company will maintain for such series an office or agency where Securities of such series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of such series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such series and this Indenture may be given or served. Such designation will continue with respect to each office or agency until the Company, by written notice signed by any Officer and delivered to the Trustee, shall designate some other office or agency for such purposes or any of them. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. Unless otherwise specified in accordance with Section 2.01 with respect to a series of Securities, the Company initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., 222 Berkeley Street, Boston, MA 02116, acting as the Company's agent, as the office to be maintained by it for each such purpose.
     Section 4.03 .
Paying Agents
          (a) The Company may appoint one or more paying agents, other than the Trustee, for all or any series of the Securities. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as paying agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of their Subsidiaries may act as paying agent.
          (b) The Company shall require each paying agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the paying agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Securityholders or the Trustee all funds held by the paying agent for the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities, and will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a paying agent to pay all funds held by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a paying agent to pay all funds held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the paying agent (including the Company or any of their Subsidiaries serving as the paying agent) shall have no further liability for the funds. If the Company or any of their Subsidiaries acts as paying agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Securityholders all funds held by it as paying agent.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, (i) the agreement to hold funds in trust as provided in this Section 4.03 is subject to the provisions of Section 11.06, and (ii) the Company at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge or defeasance of this Indenture or for any other purpose, may pay, or direct any paying agent to pay, to the Trustee all funds held in trust by the Company or such paying agent, such funds to be held by the Trustee upon the same terms and conditions as those upon which such funds were held by the Company or such paying agent. Upon such payment by any paying agent to the Trustee, such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such funds.
 
     Section 4.04 .
Statement by Officers as to Default
          So long as any of the Securities remain outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, a brief certificate (which need not comply with Section 13.06) executed by the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company on its behalf as to his or her knowledge of the Company's compliance with all covenants and agreements under this Indenture required to be complied with by the Company (such compliance to be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture). Such certificate need not include a reference to any non-compliance that has been fully cured prior to the date as of which such certificate speaks.
          The Company shall provide written notice to the Trustee within 20 days after becoming aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default under Section 6.01.
     Section 4.05 .
Appointment to Fill Vacancy in Office of Trustee
          The Company, whenever necessary to avoid or to fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee, will appoint, in the manner provided in Section 7.10, a Trustee, so that there shall be at all times a Trustee hereunder.
     Section 4.06 .
Existence
          Subject to Article X, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence.
     Section 4.07
Limitation on Liens.
          The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or otherwise cause to become effective any Lien (other than Permitted Liens) on any Principal Property or upon shares of stock of any Principal Subsidiary (whether such Principal Property or shares are now existing or owned or hereafter created or acquired), to secure any indebtedness of the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any indebtedness of any other Person, unless the Company or such Subsidiary also secures all payments due under all Securities of any series having the benefit of this Section (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company then existing or thereafter created ranking equally with the Securities), on an equal and ratable basis with such other indebtedness so secured (or, in the case of indebtedness subordinated to the Securities, prior or senior thereto, with the same relative priority as the Securities will have with respect to such subordinated indebtedness) for so long as such other indebtedness shall be so secured. The foregoing prohibition shall not apply to any of the following Liens (""):
Permitted Liens
     (a) Liens existing on the date when the Company first issues Securities pursuant to this Indenture;
     (b) Liens on property owned or leased by a Person existing at the time such Person is merged with or into or consolidated with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the Company or one or more of its Subsidiaries acquires directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the
 
stock or assets of such Person; provided that such Liens were in existence prior to the contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person merged into, consolidated with or acquired by the Company or such Subsidiary;
     (c) Liens on property existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or any of its Subsidiary, provided that such Liens were in existence prior to the contemplation of such acquisition and do not extend to any property other than the property so acquired by the Company or such Subsidiary;
     (d) Liens to secure indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of or within 18 months after the later of the acquisition of any property and the completion of the construction, alteration, repair or improvement of any property, as the case may be, for the purpose of financing all or a part of the purchase price thereof or cost of the construction, alteration, repair or improvement thereof and Liens to the extent they secure indebtedness in excess of such purchase price or cost and for the payment of which recourse may be had only against such property;
     (e) Liens in favor of the United States or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of constructing or improving the property subject to such Liens;
     (f) any Lien securing indebtedness of a Subsidiary owing to the Company or to one or more of its Subsidiaries;
     (g) Liens incurred or assumed in connection with the issuance of revenue bonds the interest on which is exempt from federal taxation pursuant to Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code;
     (h) Liens created, incurred or assumed in connection with an industrial revenue bond, pollution control bond or similar financing between the Company or any of its Subsidiary and any federal, state or municipal government or other government body or quasi-governmental agency;
     (i) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in clauses (a) through (h) above, inclusive, so long as (1) the principal amount of the indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed the principal amount of indebtedness so secured at the time of the extension, renewal or replacement (except that, where an additional principal amount of indebtedness is incurred to provide funds for the completion of a specific project, the additional principal amount, and any related financing costs, may be secured by the Lien as well) and (2) the Lien is limited to the same property subject to the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (and improvements on the property); and
 
     (j) any Lien on a Principal Property or the shares of stock of a Principal Subsidiary that would not otherwise be permitted by clauses (a) through (i) above, inclusive, securing indebtedness which, together with:
          does not exceed 10% of the Company's Consolidated Net Assets.
     Section 4.08 .
Limitation on Sale/Leaseback Transactions
          The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction with respect to any Principal Property unless:
     (a) the Company or such Subsidiary could incur indebtedness, in a principal amount at least equal to the Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, secured by a Lien on the Principal Property to be leased (without equally and ratably securing debt securities of any series having the benefit of this covenant, including the any series of Securities) pursuant to clauses (a) through (i) under Section 4.07 above;
     (b) the Company applies, during the six months following the effective date of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the Value of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction to either (or a combination of) the voluntary retirement of Funded Debt or to the acquisition of property; or
     (c) the aggregate Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction plus the Value of all other Sale and Leaseback Transactions of Principal Properties entered into after the date the Company first issues Securities under this Indenture permitted solely by this clause (c) and still in existence, plus the aggregate amount of all indebtedness secured by Liens permitted solely by clause (j) of Section 4.07 above does not exceed 10% of the Company's Consolidated Net Assets.
     Section 5.01 .
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Securityholders
          The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee (a) semi-annually at least seven Business Days before each Interest Payment Date for a series of
 
Securities (and in all events at intervals of not more than six months) a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the holders of each series of Securities as of such date, provided that the Company shall not be obligated to furnish or cause to furnish such list at any time that the list shall not differ in any respect from the most recent list furnished to the Trustee by the Company and (b) at such other times as the Trustee may require in writing within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; provided, however, that, in either case, no such list need be furnished for any series for which the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar.
     Section 5.02 .
Preservation of Information; Communications with Securityholders
          (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the holders of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 and as to the names and addresses of holders of Securities received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar (if acting in such capacity).
          (b) Securityholders may communicate as provided in Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities.
     Section 5.03 .
Reports by the Company
          (a) So long as any Securities are outstanding, the Company shall file with the Trustee, within 15 days after it files with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) that the Company is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company shall be deemed to have complied with the previous sentence to the extent that such information, documents and reports are filed with the Commission via EDGAR (or any successor electronic delivery procedure) or posted on its website.
          (b) Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
     Section 5.04 Reports by the Trustee.
          (a) Any Trustee's report required under Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be transmitted on or before July 15 in each year following the date hereof, so long as any Securities are outstanding hereunder, and shall be dated as of a date convenient to the Trustee no more than 60 nor less than 45 days prior thereto.
 
          (b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Securityholders, be filed by the Trustee with the Company, with any stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed and with the Commission. The Company agrees to notify the Trustee when any Securities become listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
          (a) Whenever used herein with respect to Securities of a particular series, "" means any one or more of the following events that has occurred and is continuing, except with respect to any series of Securities for which the supplemental indenture or resolution of the Board of Directors under which such series of Securities is issued or in the form of Security for such series expressly provides that any such Event of Default shall not apply to such series of Securities:
Event of Default
          (1) default in the payment of the principal or any premium on any Security of that series when due (whether at maturity, upon acceleration, redemption or otherwise);
          (2) default for 30 days in the payment of interest on any Security of such series when due;
          (3) failure by the Company to observe or perform any term of the Indenture (other than those referred to in (1) or (2) above and other than a covenant or agreement included in this Indenture not for the benefit of such series) for a period of 90 days after the Company receives a notice of default stating that the Company is in breach. The notice must be sent by either the Trustee or Holders of 25% of the principal amount of the Securities of the affected series;
          (4) (A) failure by the Company to pay indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or for which the Company has guaranteed the payment, in an aggregate principal amount of at least $100,000,000, at the later of final maturity and the expiration of any related applicable grace period and such defaulted payment shall not have been made, waived or extended within 30 days or (B) acceleration of the maturity of any indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or for which the Company has guaranteed the payment, in an aggregate principal amount of at least $100,000,000, if such indebtedness has not been discharged in full or such acceleration has not been rescinded or annulled within 30 days; provided, however, that, if the default under the instrument is cured by the Company, or waived by the holders of the indebtedness, in each case as permitted by the governing instrument, then the Event of Default under this Indenture caused by such default will be deemed likewise to be cured or waived;
          (5) the entry by a court having competent jurisdiction of:
 
          (A) an order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law and such order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
          (B) a final and non-appealable order appointing a Custodian, of the Company, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company, and such order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days;
          (6) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law or the consent by the Company to the entry of a decree or order for relief in an involuntary proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law or the filing by the Company of a consent to an order for relief in any involuntary proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law or to the appointment of a Custodian or the making by the Company of an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or
          (7) any other Event of Default provided in the supplemental indenture or resolution of the Board of Directors under which such series of Securities is issued or in the form of Security for such series.
          (b) In each and every such case (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a)(5) or 6.01(a)(6)), unless the principal of all the Securities of that series shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then Outstanding hereunder, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by such Securityholders), may declare the unpaid principal of all the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a)(5) or 6.01(a)(6) occurs, the principal amount of all the Securities shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become immediately due and payable.
          (c) At any time after the principal of the Securities of that series shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the amount due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then Outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (i) the Company has or has caused to be paid or deposited with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest upon all the Securities of that series and the principal of and premium, if any, on any and all Securities of that series that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate expressed in the Securities of that series to the date of such payment or deposit), and (ii) any and all Events of Default under this Indenture with respect to such series, other than the nonpayment of principal on Securities of that series that shall have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, shall have been remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.06.
 
          No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
          (d) In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right with respect to Securities of that series under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission or annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceedings, the Company and the Trustee shall be restored respectively to their former positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company and the Trustee shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken.
          (e) The Trustee shall give to the Securityholders of any series, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear on the Security Register, notice by mail of all defaults known to the Trustee that have occurred with respect to such series, such notice to be transmitted within 90 days after the occurrence thereof, unless such defaults shall have been cured before the giving of such notice (the term "default" or "defaults" for the purposes of this Section 6.01(e) being hereby defined to mean any event or condition which is, or with notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default); provided that, except in the case of default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities of such series, or in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund installment with respect to the Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees and/or Responsible Officers in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Securityholders of such series.
     Section 6.02 .
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
          (a) The Company covenants that (i) in case it shall default in the payment of any installment of interest on any of the Securities of a series, or any payment required by any sinking or analogous fund established with respect to that series as and when the same shall have become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 30 days, or (ii) in case it shall default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, on any of the Securities of a series when the same shall have become due and payable, whether upon maturity of the Securities of a series or upon redemption or upon declaration or otherwise, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Securities of that series, the whole amount that then shall have been become due and payable on all such Securities for principal, premium, if any, or interest, or both, with interest upon the overdue principal, premium, if any, and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon overdue installments of interest at the rate expressed in the Securities of that series; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06.
          (b) If the Company shall fail to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the
 
amounts so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company and collect the amounts adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company, wherever situated.
          (c) In case of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, readjustment, arrangement, composition or judicial proceedings affecting the Company or its respective creditors or property, the Trustee shall have power to intervene in such proceedings and take any action therein that may be permitted by the court and, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be entitled to file such proofs of claim and other papers and documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and of the holders of Securities of such series allowed for the entire amount due and payable by the Company under this Indenture at the date of institution of such proceedings and for any additional amount that may become due and payable by the Company after such date, and to collect and receive any funds or other property payable or deliverable on any such claim, and to distribute the same in accordance with Section 6.03. Any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby authorized by each of the holders of Securities of such series to make such payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to such Securityholders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it under Section 7.06.
          (d) All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the terms established with respect to Securities of that series, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of such Securities, or the production thereof at any trial or other proceeding relative thereto. Any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for payment to the Trustee of any amounts due under Section 7.06, be for the ratable benefit of the holders of the Securities of such series.
          In case of an Event of Default, the Trustee in its discretion may proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law.
          Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Securityholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities of that series or the rights of any holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Securityholder in any such proceeding.
     Section 6.03 .
Application of Funds Collected
          Any funds collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article VI with respect to a particular series of Securities shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by
 
the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such funds on account of principal, premium, if any, or interest, upon presentation of the Securities of that series, and notation thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
     FIRST: To the payment of costs and expenses of collection and of all amounts payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06;
     SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon Securities of such series for principal, premium, if any, and interest, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such funds have been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest, respectively; and
     THIRD: To the Company.
     Section 6.04 .
Limitation on Suits
          No holder of any Security of any series shall have any right by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to institute any suit, action or proceeding in equity or at law upon or under or with respect to this Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless (i) such holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of an Event of Default and of the continuance thereof with respect to the Securities of such series specifying such Event of Default; (ii) the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own name as trustee hereunder; (iii) such holder or holders shall have offered to the Trustee such reasonable indemnity as it may require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby; (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity, shall have failed to institute any such action, suit or proceeding; and (v) during such 60 day period, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request.
          Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any other provisions of this Indenture, the right of any holder of any Security to receive payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on such Security, as therein provided, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security (or in the case of redemption, on the redemption date), or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates or redemption date, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such holder. By accepting a Security hereunder it is expressly understood, intended and covenanted by the taker and holder of every Security of such series with every other such taker and holder and the Trustee, that no one or more holders of Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of the holders of any other of such Securities, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such holder, or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all holders of Securities of such series. For the protection and enforcement of the provisions of this
 
Section 6.04, each Securityholder and the Trustee shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity.
     Section 6.05 .
Rights and Remedies Cumulative; Delay or Omission not Waiver
          (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.07, all powers and remedies given by this Article VI to the Trustee or to the Securityholders, to the extent permitted by law, shall be deemed cumulative and not exclusive of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the holders of the Securities, by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture or otherwise established with respect to such Securities.
          (b) No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any holder of any of the Securities to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Event of Default occurring and continuing shall impair any such right or power, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or on acquiescence therein. Subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, every power and remedy given by this Article VI or by law to the Trustee or the Securityholders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Securityholders.
     Section 6.06 .
Control by Securityholders
          The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, determined in accordance with Section 8.04, shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to such series; , , that such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture or be unduly prejudicial to the rights of holders of Securities of any other series at the time Outstanding determined in accordance with Section 8.04. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee in good faith, by a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee, shall determine that the proceeding so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability. The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding affected thereby, determined in accordance with Section 8.04, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, on behalf of the holders of all of the Securities of such series, may rescind an acceleration or waive any existing Default or Event of Default with respect to such series and its consequences, if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree, except (i) a default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, any of the Securities of that series; or (ii) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected. Upon any such waiver, the default covered thereby shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for all purposes of this Indenture and the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Securities of such series shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
provided
however
 
     Section 6.07 .
Undertaking to Pay Costs
          All parties to this Indenture agree, and each holder of any Securities by such holder's acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section 6.07 shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder, or group of Securityholders, holding more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Securityholder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security of such series, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security or established pursuant to this Indenture.
     Section 6.08 .
Waiver of Usury, Stay Or Extension Laws
          Each of the Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any usury, stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and each of the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
     Section 7.01 .
Certain Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee
          (a) In case an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series has occurred (that has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise with respect to Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
 
          (b) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
          (1) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default with respect to that series that may have occurred:
          (i) the duties and obligations of the Trustee shall with respect to the Securities of such series be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to the Securities of such series except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
          (ii) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical computations or other facts stated therein);
          (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
          (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series; and
          (4) none of the provisions contained in this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if there is reasonable ground for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Indenture or adequate indemnity against such risk is not reasonably assured to it.
 
     Section 7.02 .
Certain Rights of Trustee
          Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01:
          (a) The Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, security or other paper or document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
          (b) Any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution or an instrument signed in the name of the Company by an Officer (unless other evidence in respect thereof is specifically prescribed herein).
          (c) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
          (d) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Securityholders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that may be incurred therein or thereby.
          (e) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture, provided, however, that the Trustee's conduct does not constitute willful misconduct, bad faith or negligence.
          (f) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, security or other papers or documents, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry into such matters as it may see fit, and if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled upon reasonable notice and at reasonable times to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation.
          (g) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
          (h) The Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee
 
     shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder.
          (i) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
          (j) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officer's Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officer's Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officer's Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded.
          In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
     Section 7.03 .
Trustee not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
          (a) The recitals contained herein and in the Securities shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same.
          (b) The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities.
          (c) The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of any of the Securities or of the proceeds of such Securities, or for the use or application of any funds paid over by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture or established pursuant to Section 2.01, or for the use or application of any funds received by any paying agent other than the Trustee.
     Section 7.04 .
May Hold Securities
          The Trustee or any paying agent or Security Registrar, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent or Security Registrar. However, the Trustee is subject to Sections 7.09 and 7.13.
     Section 7.05 .
Funds Held in Trust
          Subject to the provisions of Section 11.06, all funds received by the Trustee, until used or applied as herein provided, shall be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The
 
Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any funds received by it hereunder except such as it may agree with the Company to pay thereon.
     Section 7.06 .
Compensation and Reimbursement
          (a) The Company shall pay to the Trustee, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be paid, such compensation (which shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust), as the Company and the Trustee from time to time may agree in writing, for all services rendered by it in the execution of the trusts hereby created and in the exercise and performance of any of the powers and duties hereunder of the Trustee. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Company will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses and disbursements incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all Persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense or disbursement as shall have been caused by its own negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith. The Company shall indemnify the Trustee (and its officers, agents, directors and employees) for, and shall hold it harmless against, any and all loss, liability, claim, damage or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee) incurred without negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on the part of the Trustee and arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim of liability (whether asserted by the Company, any Holder or any other Person). The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee so to notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder, except to the extent that the Company has been prejudiced by such failure. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate, to the extent reasonable, in the defense of any such claim, and, if (in the opinion of counsel to the Trustee) the facts and/or issues surrounding the claim are reasonably likely to create a conflict with the Company, the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of separate counsel to the Trustee. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss, liability or expense incurred by the Trustee through the Trustee's own willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
          (b) The obligations of the Company under this Section 7.06 to compensate and indemnify the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses and disbursements shall: (i) be secured by a lien prior to that of the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the holders of particular Securities; and (ii) survive the termination of this Indenture and resignation or removal of the Trustee.
          (c) When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default, the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
 
     Section 7.07 .
Reliance on Officer's Certificate
          Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed), in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, may be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof.
     Section 7.08 .
Disqualification; Conflicting Interests
          If the Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee and the Company shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
     Section 7.09 .
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility
          There shall at all times be a Trustee with respect to the Securities issued hereunder which shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or any State or Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia, or a corporation or other Person permitted to act as trustee by the Commission, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000, and subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State, Territorial, or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 7.09 the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. The Company may not, nor may any Affiliate of the Company, serve as Trustee. In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.09, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 7.10.
     Section 7.10 .
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
          (a) The Trustee or any successor hereafter appointed may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company and by transmitting notice of resignation by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Securityholders of such series, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company promptly shall appoint a successor trustee with respect to Securities of such series. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns, the retiring Trustee, at the expense of the Company, or the Company may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to Securities of
 
such series, or any Securityholder of that series who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months may on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee.
          (b) In case at any time any one of the following shall occur, the Company may remove the Trustee with respect to all or any series of Securities and appoint a successor trustee, or, unless the Trustee's duty to resign is stayed as provided herein, any Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months, on behalf of that holder and all others similarly situated, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee:
          (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section 7.08 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months; or
          (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Securityholder; or
          (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or commence a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or consented to, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation.
          If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of removal, the Trustee being removed may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
     (c) The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding at any time may remove the Trustee with respect to such series upon 30 days' written notice to the Trustee and the Company and may appoint a successor Trustee for such series with the consent of the Company.
     (d) Any resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of a series pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 7.11.
     (e) Any successor trustee appointed pursuant to this Section 7.10 may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more series or all of such series, and at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series.
 
     Section 7.11 .
Acceptance of Appointment By Successor
          (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee. On the request of the Company or the successor trustee, such retiring Trustee, upon payment of its charges, shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all the rights, powers, and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall assign, transfer and deliver to such successor trustee all property and funds held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
          (b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor trustee shall accept such appointment and which (i) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates, (ii) shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (iii) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust, that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee and that no Trustee shall be responsible for any act or failure to act on the part of any other Trustee hereunder. Upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein, and such retiring Trustee shall have no further responsibility with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates for the exercise of rights and powers or for the performance of the duties and obligations vested in the Trustee under this Indenture. Each such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates. On request of the Company or any successor trustee, such retiring Trustee shall assign, transfer and deliver to such successor trustee, to the extent contemplated by such supplemental indenture, the property and funds held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates.
          (c) Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company may execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in Section 7.11(a) or (b), as the case may be.
 
          (d) No successor trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article VII.
          (e) Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee as provided in this Section 7.11, the successor trustee shall cause a notice of its succession to be transmitted to Securityholders.
     Section 7.12 .
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
          Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided that such corporation shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
     Section 7.13 .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Company
          The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship described in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent included therein.
     Section 8.01 .
Evidence of Action by Securityholders
          Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the holders of a majority or specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action the holders of such majority or specified percentage of that series have joined therein may be evidenced by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by such holders of Securities of that series in Person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing.
          The Company may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities of such series, provided,
 
however, that the Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, the giving or making of any notice, declaration, request or direction referred to in the next paragraph. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided, however, that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Trustee in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 13.03.
          The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving or making of (i) any notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 6.01, (iii) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 6.04 or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 6.06, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to join in such notice, declaration, request or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided, however, that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 13.03.
          With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which sets such record dates may designate any day as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; provided, however, that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other party hereto in writing, and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 13.03, on or prior to the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which set
 
such record date shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date.
          Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such principal amount.
     Section 8.02 .
Proof of Execution by Securityholders
          Subject to the provisions of Section 8.01, proof of the execution of any instrument by a Securityholder (such proof will not require notarization) or his agent or proxy and proof of the holding by any Person of any of the Securities shall be sufficient if made in the following manner:
     (a) The fact and date of the execution by any such Person of any instrument may be proved in any reasonable manner acceptable to the Trustee.
     (b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register of such Securities or by a certificate of the Security Registrar thereof.
     (c) The Trustee may require such additional proof of any matter referred to in this Section as it shall deem necessary.
     Section 8.03 .
Who May be Deemed Owners
          Prior to the due presentment for registration of transfer of any Security, the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent and any Security Registrar may deem and treat the Person in whose name such Security shall be registered upon the books of the Company as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon made by anyone other than the Security Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to Section 2.03) interest on such Security and for all other purposes; and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
          None of the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
     Section 8.04 .
Certain Securities Owned by Company Disregarded
          In determining whether the holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Securities of a particular series have concurred in any direction, consent of waiver under this
 
Indenture, the Securities of that series that are owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Securities of that series or by an Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination, except that for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, consent or waiver, only Securities of such series that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. The Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding for the purposes of this Section, if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not an Affiliate. In case of a dispute as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel shall be full protection to the Trustee. Upon request of the Trustee, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee promptly an Officer's Certificate listing and identifying all Securities of a particular series, if any known by the Company to be owned or held by or for the account of any of the above described Persons and, subject to Sections 7.01 and 7.02, the Trustee shall be entitled to accept such Officer's Certificate as conclusive evidence of the facts therein set forth and of the fact that all Securities of such particular series not listed therein are Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination.
     Section 8.05 .
Actions Binding on Future Securityholders
          At any time prior to the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in Section 8.01, of the taking of any action by the holders of the majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any holder of a Security of that series that is shown by the evidence to be included in the Securities the holders of which have consented to such action, by filing written notice with the Trustee, and upon proof of holding as provided in Section 8.02, may revoke such action so far as concerns such Security. Except as aforesaid, any such action taken by the holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of such Security, and of any Security issued in exchange therefor, on registration of transfer thereof or in place thereof, irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Security. Any action taken by the holders of the majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the Company, the Trustee and the holders of all the Securities of that series.
     Section 9.01 .
Supplemental Indentures Without the Consent of Securityholders
          In addition to any supplemental indenture otherwise authorized by this Indenture, the Company and the Trustee from time to time and at any time may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect), without the consent of the Securityholders, for one or more of the following purposes:
 
     (a) to cure any ambiguity, defect, or inconsistency herein or in the Securities of any series;
     (b) to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under this Indenture or under any supplemental indenture as the Board of Directors of the Company may deem necessary or desirable, and which shall not in each case adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities in any material respect;
     (c) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company, or successive successions, and the assumption by the successor Person of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company, as the case may be, pursuant to Article X;
     (d) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities;
     (e) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the holders of all or any outstanding series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all outstanding series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
     (f) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the holders of all or any outstanding series of Securities (and if such Events of Default are to be applicable to less than all outstanding series, stating that such Events of Default are expressly being included solely to be applicable to such series);
     (g) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, provided that any such change or elimination shall not become effective with respect to any outstanding Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision;
     (h) to secure the Securities of any series;
     (i) to make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Securityholder of Outstanding Securities in any material respect;
     (j) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Securities of any series as provided in Section 2.01, to provide which, if any, of the covenants of the Company shall apply to such series, and to provide which of the Events of Default shall apply to such series or to define the rights of the holders of such series of Securities;
     (k) to comply with requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act;
     (l) to issue additional Securities of any series; provided that such additional Securities have the same terms as, and be deemed part of the same series as, the
 
applicable series of Securities issued hereunder to the extent required by Section 2.01(b); or
     (m) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trust hereunder by more than one Trustee.
          Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by Board Resolutions authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 9.05, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained.
          Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section 9.01 may be executed by the Company and the Trustee without the consent of the holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 9.02.
     Section 9.02 .
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Securityholders
With the consent (evidenced as provided in Section 8.01) of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding affected by such supplemental indenture or indentures, the Company, when authorized by Board Resolutions, and the Trustee from time to time and at any time may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner not covered by Section 9.01 the rights of the holders of the Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the holders of each Security then Outstanding and affected thereby, shall (i) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security or any other Security which would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01(b), or change any place of payment where, or the coin or Currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or (ii) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or (iii) modify any of the provisions of this Section or Section 6.06, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby.
 
          A supplemental indenture that changes or eliminates any covenant, Event of Default or other provision of this Indenture that has been expressly included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, if any, or which modifies the rights of the holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant, Event of Default or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the holders of Securities of any other series.
          It shall not be necessary for the consent of Securityholders of a series affected thereby under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
          Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Section 9.02, the Company shall mail or caused to be mailed a notice thereof by first class mail to the Holders of Securities of each series affected thereby at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
     Section 9.03 .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
          Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article IX or Section 10.01, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended with respect to such series in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the holders of Securities of the series affected thereby shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
     Section 9.04 .
Securities Affected by Supplemental Indentures
          Securities of any series affected by a supplemental indenture and authenticated and delivered after the execution of such supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Section 10.01 may bear a notation in form approved by the Company, provided such form meets the requirements of any exchange upon which such series may be listed, as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of that series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the Company, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Securities of that series then Outstanding.
     Section 9.05 .
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
          Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by Board Resolutions authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and, if applicable, upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Securityholders required to consent thereto as
 
aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee in its discretion may but shall not be obligated to enter into such supplemental indenture. The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, shall receive an Opinion of Counsel and Officer's Certificate as conclusive evidence that any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article IX is authorized or permitted by, and conforms to, the terms of this Article IX.
     Section 10.01 .
Consolidation, Merger and Sale of Assets
          The Company shall not consolidate with, merge with or into, or sell, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company or the Company's Subsidiaries taken as a whole (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) to, any Person or permit any Person to merge with or into it unless:
          (a) The Company shall be the continuing Person, or the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which we are merged or that acquired or leased such property and assets, shall be a Person validly existing under the laws of the United States of America or any jurisdiction thereof, or, subject to the conditions set forth in Section 10.03, a jurisdiction outside the United States (a ""), and shall expressly assume, by a supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee, all of the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities;
Foreign Entity
          (b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
          (c) the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel, in each case stating that such consolidation, merger or transfer and such supplemental indenture complies with this Section 10.01 and that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to such transaction have been complied with.
          To the extent that a Board Resolution or supplemental indenture pertaining to any series provides for different provisions relating to the subject matter of this Article X, the provisions in such Board Resolution or supplemental indenture shall govern for purposes of such series.
     Section 10.02 .
Successor Person Substituted
          Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 10.01 of this Indenture, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition is made shall succeed to and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor
 
Person had been named as the Company; provided that the Company shall not be released from its obligation to pay the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities in the case of a lease of all or substantially all of its property and assets.
     Section 10.03 .
Other Additional Amounts
          If the Company or any successor to the Company under this Indenture shall be a Foreign Entity, the Company or its successor shall pay and shall provide notice to the Trustee of the payment of, such additional amounts ("") as may be necessary in order that every net payment on each Security, after withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge ("") imposed upon or as a result of such payment by the jurisdiction outside the United States in which such Foreign Entity is organized and existing (or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein (such jurisdiction, a "")), shall not be less than the amount provided for in such Security to be then due and payable; provided, however, that no such Other Additional Amounts shall be payable on account of:
Other Additional Amounts
Taxes
Foreign Jurisdiction
          (a) any Tax which would not have been so imposed but for the existence of any present or former connection between such Holder (or between a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member, shareholder of or possessor of a power over such Holder, if such Holder is an estate, a trust, a partnership or a corporation) and the Foreign Jurisdiction giving rise to payments of the Other Additional Amounts, including, without limitation, such Holder (or such fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member, shareholder or possessor) being or having been a citizen or resident of the Foreign Jurisdiction or treated as a resident thereof, or being or having been engaged in trade or business or present therein, or having had a permanent establishment therein;
          (b) any Tax which would not have been so imposed but for the presentation by the Holder of such Security or any payment appertaining thereto for payment on a date more than 15 days after the date on which such payment became due and payable or the date on which payment thereof is duly provided for, whichever occurs later;
          (c) any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, transfer, personal property or similar Tax;
          (d) any Tax which is payable otherwise than by deduction or withholding from payments of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on such Security;
          (e) any Tax imposed on a Holder that is a partnership or a fiduciary, but only to the extent that any beneficial owner or member of the partnership or beneficiary or settlor with respect to the fiduciary would not have been entitled to the payment of Other Additional Amounts had the beneficial owner, member, beneficiary or settlor directly received its beneficial or distributive share of payments on such Security; or
          (f) any combination of items (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e).
          Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security, such mention shall be
 
deemed to include mention of the payment of Other Additional Amounts provided by the terms of this Indenture or by the terms of such Securities to the extent that, in such context, Other Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to such terms, and express mention of the payment of Other Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provision hereof shall not be construed as excluding Other Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
     Section 11.01 .
Applicability of Article
          If the Securities of a series are denominated and payable only in Dollars (except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01), then the provisions of this Article XI relating to defeasance of Securities shall be applicable except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.01 for Securities of such series. Defeasance provisions, if any, for Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency may be specified pursuant to Section 2.01.
     Section 11.02 .
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
          If at any time:
          (a) either
          (i) the Company shall have delivered or shall have caused to be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Securities of a series theretofore authenticated (other than any Securities that shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and that shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.07) and Securities for whose payment funds or Governmental Obligations have theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereupon repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 11.06; or
          (ii) all such Securities of a particular series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and the Company shall irrevocably deposit or cause to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds, cash or Governmental Obligations that will generate enough cash, or a combination thereof sufficient to pay in Dollars (except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01) at maturity or upon redemption all Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal, premium, if any, and interest due or to become due on such date of maturity or redemption date, as the case may be;
          (b) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to such series; and
 
          (c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such series have been complied with,
then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect with respect to such series except for the following provisions that shall survive until the date of maturity or redemption date, as the case may be: (A) the rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 11.03(c) and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities when due, (B) the Company's obligation with respect to such Securities under Sections 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 2.07, 4.02, 4.03, 7.05 and 7.10 hereof, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (D) this Article XI. Sections 7.06 and 11.06 shall survive to such date and thereafter, and the Trustee, on demand of the Company and at the cost and expense of the Company shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to such series.
     Section 11.03 .
Defeasance and Discharge of Obligations; Covenant Defeasance
          (a) If at any time:
          (i) all such Securities of a particular series not heretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that have not become due and payable as described in Section 11.02 shall have been paid by the Company by depositing irrevocably with the Trustee in trust funds or an amount of Governmental Obligations sufficient to pay at maturity or upon redemption all such Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal, premium, if any, and interest due or to become due to such date of maturity or date fixed for redemption, as the case may be, and
          (ii) the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other amounts payable hereunder by the Company with respect to such series,
then, after the date such funds or Governmental Obligations, as the case may be, are deposited with the Trustee, the obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to such series shall cease to be of further effect except, to the extent applicable to each, for the following provisions that shall survive until such Securities shall mature and be paid: (A) the rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 11.03(c) and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities when due, (B) the Company's obligation with respect to such Securities under Sections 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 2.07, 4.02, 4.03, 7.05 and 7.10 hereof, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (D) this Article XI. Thereafter, Sections 7.06 and 11.06 shall survive such satisfaction and discharge.
          (b) In addition, each of the Company, at its option and at any time, by written notice executed by an Officer delivered to the Trustee, may elect to have its obligations, to the extent applicable to each, under Sections 4.07, 4.08 and 5.03 and any covenant contained in Article X, and any other covenant contained in the Board Resolution or supplemental indenture
 
relating to such series pursuant to Section 2.01, discharged with respect to all Outstanding Securities of a series, this Indenture and any indentures supplemental to this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (""), such discharge to be effective on the date the conditions set forth in clauses (i) through (vii) of Section 11.03(c) are satisfied, and such Securities shall thereafter be deemed to be not "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration of Securityholders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be "Outstanding" for all other purposes under this Indenture. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to the Outstanding Securities of a series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a)(3) or otherwise, nor shall there be thereafter any event constituting an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a)(4), but except as specified in this Section 11.03(b), the remainder of the Company's obligations under the Securities of such series, this Indenture, and any indentures supplemental to this Indenture with respect to such series shall be unaffected thereby.
covenant defeasance
          (c) The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 11.03 to the Outstanding Securities of the applicable series:
          (i) the Company irrevocably deposits in trust with the Trustee or, at the option of the Trustee, with a trustee satisfactory to the Trustee and the Company under the terms of an irrevocable trust agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, cash or Governmental Obligations that will generate cash sufficient to pay principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Outstanding Securities of such series to maturity or redemption, as the case may be, and to pay all other amounts payable by it hereunder, provided that (A) the trustee of the irrevocable trust shall have been irrevocably instructed to pay such funds or the proceeds of such Governmental Obligations to the Trustee and (B) the Trustee shall have been irrevocably instructed to apply such funds or the proceeds of such Governmental Obligations to the payment of said principal, premium, if any, and interest with respect to the Securities of such series;
          (ii) the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent specified herein relating to defeasance or covenant defeasance, as the case may be, have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel to the same effect;
          (iii) no Event of Default under clauses (1), (2), (5) or (6) of Section 6.01(a) shall have occurred and be continuing, and no event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become such an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, on the date of such deposit;
          (iv) in the event of an election under Section 11.02(a), the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this instrument, there has been a change in the applicable Federal
 
income tax law, in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit, defeasance and discharge were not to occur;
          (v) in the event of an election under Section 11.02(b), the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and Covenant Defeasance to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit and Covenant Defeasance were not to occur; and
          (vi) notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section 11.03, such covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions or limitations which may be imposed on the Company pursuant to Section 2.01.
          After such irrevocable deposit made pursuant to this Section 11.03 and satisfaction of the other conditions set forth herein, the Trustee upon request shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of the Company's obligations pursuant to this Section 11.03.
     Section 11.04 .
Deposited Funds to be Held in Trust
          All funds or Governmental Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Sections 11.02 or 11.03 shall be held in trust and shall be available for payment as due, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company acting as its own paying agent), to the holders of the particular series of Securities for the payment or redemption of which such funds or Governmental Obligations have been deposited with the Trustee.
     Section 11.05 .
Payment of Funds Held by Paying Agents
          In connection with the provisions of Section 11.02 or 11.03, all funds or Governmental Obligations then held by any paying agent under the provisions of this Indenture shall, upon demand of the Company, be paid to the Trustee and thereupon such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such funds or Governmental Obligations.
     Section 11.06 .
Repayment to the Company
          Any funds or Governmental Obligations deposited with any paying agent or the Trustee, or then held by the Company, in trust for payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least one year after the date upon which the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company, as applicable, or if then held by the Company shall be
 
discharged from such trust; and thereafter, the paying agent and the Trustee shall be released from all further liability with respect to such funds or Governmental Obligations, and the holder of any of the Securities entitled to receive such payment shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company, as applicable, for the payment thereof. Anything in this Article XI to the contrary notwithstanding, subject to Section 7.06, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon request by the Company any funds or Governmental Obligations (or other property and any proceeds therefrom) held by it as provided in Sections 11.02 or 11.03 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect a defeasance or covenant defeasance, as the case may be, in accordance with this Article XI.
     Section 11.07 .
Reinstatement
          If the Trustee or paying agent is unable to apply any funds or Governmental Obligations in accordance with Section 11.02 or 11.03 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture, any indentures supplemental to this Indenture with respect to the applicable series of Securities and the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 11.02 or 11.03, as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or paying agent is permitted to apply all such funds or Governmental Obligations in accordance with Section 11.02 or 11.03, as the case may be; provided, however, that if the Company has made any payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on any Securities of such series following the reinstatement of its obligations as aforesaid, the Company, as applicable, shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders of such Securities of such series to receive such payment from the funds or Governmental Obligations held by the Trustee or paying agent.
     Section 12.01 .
No Recourse
          No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that this Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, shareholders, officers or directors as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom; and that
 
any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, shareholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issuance of such Securities.
     Section 13.01 .
Effect on Successors and Assigns
          All the agreements of the Company in this Indenture or the Securities shall bind its respective successor whether so expressed or not. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor whether so expressed or not.
     Section 13.02 .
Actions by Successor
          Any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture authorized or required to be done or performed by any board, committee or officer of the Company shall and may be done and performed with like force and effect by the corresponding board, committee or officer of any corporation that shall at the time be the lawful sole successor of the Company, as applicable.
     Section 13.03 .
Notices
          Any notice or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the other's address:
 
          The Company or the Trustee by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
          All notices and communications (other than those sent to Securityholders) shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
          Any notice or communication to a Securityholder shall be mailed by first-class mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, to his address shown on the Security Register. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Securityholder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Securityholders.
          In the event of suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give notice by mail, then such notification as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute sufficient notice for every purpose hereunder.
          If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is conclusively presumed duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
     Section 13.04 .
Governing Law
          This Indenture and each Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State without regard to conflicts of laws principles that would require the application of any other law. This Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of this Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
     Section 13.05 .
Treatment of Securities as Debt
          It is intended that the Securities will be treated as indebtedness and not as equity for United States federal income tax purposes. The provisions of this Indenture shall be interpreted to further this intention.
     Section 13.06 .
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
          (a) Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signer, all conditions precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
 
          (b) Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant in this Indenture shall include: (1) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
     Section 13.07 .
Payments on Business Days
          Except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01 pursuant to a Board Resolution, and as set forth in an Officer's Certificate or established in one or more indentures supplemental to this Indenture, in any case where the date of maturity of interest or principal of any Security or the date of redemption of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest or principal and premium, if any, may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the nominal date of maturity or redemption, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such nominal date.
     Section 13.08 .
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
          If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control.
     Section 13.09 .
Counterparts
          This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
     Section 13.10 .
Separability
          In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Indenture or in the Securities of any series shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Indenture or of such Securities, but this Indenture and such Securities shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.
     Section 13.11 .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
          This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or a Subsidiary. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
 
     Section 13.12 .
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc
          The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
     Section 13.13 .
Consent to Jurisdiction and Service of Process
          The Company agrees that any legal suit, action or proceeding brought by any party to enforce any rights under or with respect to this Indenture, any Security or any other document or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby may be instituted in any state or federal court in The City of New York, State of New York, United States of America, irrevocably waives to the fullest extent permitted by law any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding, irrevocably waives to the fullest extent permitted by law any claim that and agrees not to claim or plead in any court that any such action, suit or proceeding brought in such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum and irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit, action or proceeding or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof.
          To the extent that the Company has or hereafter may acquire any immunity from jurisdiction of any court (including any court in the United States, the State of New York or other jurisdiction in which the Company or any successor thereof may be organized or any political subdivisions thereof) or from any legal process (whether through service of notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution, execution or otherwise) with respect to itself or its property or assets, this Indenture, the Securities or any other documents or actions to enforce judgments in respect of any thereof, then the Company hereby irrevocably waives such immunity, and any defense based on such immunity, in respect of its obligations under the above-referenced documents and the transactions contemplated thereby, to the extent permitted by law.
     Section 13.14 .
Waiver of Jury Trial
          EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
     Section 13.15 .
USA Patriot Act
          The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act the Trustee, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account with The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.. The parties to this Indenture agree that they
 
will provide the Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the USA Patriot Act.
     Section 13.16 .
Force Majeure
          In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
          , the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 81 Wyman Street Waltham, Massachusetts 02454 Attention: Seth H. Hoogasian
[Trustee] [Address]
Re: [insert description of Securities]
Ladies and Gentlemen,
          Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of ______, ______, between Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware company (the "") and ______, a ______, as trustee (the ""), [as supplemented by that certain supplemental indenture dated as of ______][and the Board Resolution adopted ______] (together, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. ______ (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Security or Securities or interest[s] in such Security or Securities specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $______ in such Security or Securities or interest[s] (the ""), to ______ (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Company
Trustee
Indenture
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
[CHECK ALL THAT APPLY
          1.     The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Security is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Security for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A (a "") in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security or a Definitive Security Pursuant to Rule 144A.
Securities Act
QIB
          2.     The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security or a Definitive Security pursuant to Regulation S.
 
Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (y) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (z) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904 (b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed Transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, the Transfer is not being made to a U.S. person (as such is defined in Regulation S) or for the account or benefit of a U.S. person (other than an initial purchaser of the Securities) and the interest transferred will be held immediately thereafter through Euroclear or Clearstream. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
          3.    The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities and Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
o
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Definitive Security pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S.
          (a)    Such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act; or
o
          (b)    Such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a Subsidiary thereof; or
o
          (c)    Such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; or
o
          (d)    Such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Security or Restricted Definitive Security and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form attached as Exhibit C to the Indenture. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on
o
 
transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
          4.    
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or of an Unrestricted Definitive Security.
          (a)    (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144.
          (b)    (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S.
          (c)    (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
o
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption.
 
          This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
_________________________________ Dated:
_________________________________ [Insert Name of Transferor]
 
[CHECK ONE OF (a) OR (b)]
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 81 Wyman Street Waltham, Massachusetts 02454 Attention: Seth H. Hoogasian
[Trustee] [Address of Trustee]
Re: [insert description of the Securities]
Ladies and Gentlemen,
          Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of ______, ______, between Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware company (the "") and , a , as trustee (the "") [as supplemented by that certain supplemental indenture dated as of ][and the Board Resolution adopted ] (together, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Company
______
______
Trustee
______
______
Indenture
          ______, (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Security or Securities or interest[s] in such Security or Securities specified herein, in the principal amount of $______ in such Security or Securities or interest[s] (the ""). In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Owner
Exchange
          1. .
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Unrestricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security
          (a)    In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security.
Securities Act
          (b)    In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security.
 
Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
          (c)    In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security.
          (d)    In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security.
          2. .
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities for Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
          (a)    In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a Restricted Definitive Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Security issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Restricted Definitive Security.
 
          (b)    In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in the: [CHECK ONE] 144A Global Security or Regulation S Global Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security.
o
o
          This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
_________________________________ [Insert Name of Owner]
Dated: ____________________________
 
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 81 Wyman Street Waltham, Massachusetts 02454 Attention: Seth H. Hoogasian
[Trustee] [Address of Trustee]
Re: [insert description of the Securities]
Ladies and Gentlemen,
          Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of ______, ______, between Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware company (the "") and ______, a ______, as trustee (the "") [as supplemented by that certain supplemental indenture dated as of ______][and the Board Resolution adopted ______] (together, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Company
Trustee
Indenture
          In connection with our proposed purchase of $______ aggregate principal amount of: (a) a beneficial interest in a Global Security, or (b) a Definitive Security, we confirm that:
     1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Securities or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Securities or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
     2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Securities have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Securities and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Securities or any interest therein, we will do so only (1) in the United States to a person whom the seller reasonably believes is a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, (2) outside the United States in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act, (3) pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder (if available) or (4) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, in each of cases (1) through (4) in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States, and we further agree to notify any purchaser of the Securities from us of the resale restrictions referred to above.
 
     3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Securities or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that any subsequent transfer by us of the Securities or beneficial interest therein acquired by us must be effected through one of the initial purchasers of the Securities.
     4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Securities, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
     5. We are acquiring the Securities or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
          You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
________________________________ Dated: __________, __________
________________________________ [Insert Name of Accredited Investor]

Exhibit 99.2
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
     THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is dated as of November 20, 2009 among THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC., a Delaware corporation (the "") and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association (the "").
Company
Trustee
     A. The Company and the Trustee executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2009, (the ""), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of unsubordinated debt securities evidencing its unsecured indebtedness.
Base Indenture
     B. Pursuant to Board Resolution, the Company has authorized the issuance of $350,000,000 principal amount of 2.150% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "") and $400,000,000 principal amount of 3.250% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "and together with the 2012 Notes, the "").
2012 Notes
2014 Notes
Notes
     C. The entry into this First Supplemental Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects authorized by the provisions of the Base Indenture.
     D. The Company desires to enter into this First Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture to establish the terms of the Notes in accordance with Section 2.01 of the Base Indenture and to establish the form of the Notes in accordance with Sections 2.01(a)(10) and 2.02 of the Base Indenture.
     E. All things necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement according to its terms have been done.
     NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, The Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Notes as follows:
Section 1.1 .
Terms of the Notes
     The following terms relate to the Notes:
     (1) The 2012 Notes shall constitute a series of Notes having the title "2.150% Senior Notes due 2012" and the 2014 Notes shall constitute a separate series of Notes having the title "3.250% Senior Notes due 2014".
     (2) The aggregate principal amount of the 2012 Notes (the "") and the 2014 Notes (the "" and together with the Initial 2012 Notes, the "") that may be initially authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be $350,000,000 and $400,000,000, respectively. The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of Notes, issue additional 2012 Notes (in any such case "") or additional 2014 Notes (in any such case, "") having the same
Initial 2012 Notes
Initial 2014 Notes
Initial Notes
Additional 2012 Notes
Additional 2014 Notes
 
ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Initial 2012 Notes or the Initial 2014 Notes, as the case may be. Any Additional 2012 Notes and the Initial 2012 Notes, and any Additional 2014 Notes and the Initial 2014 Notes, as the case may be, shall each constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the 2012 Notes shall include the Initial 2012 Notes and any Additional 2012 Notes and all references to the 2014 Notes shall include the Initial 2014 Notes and any Additional 2014 Notes, unless the context otherwise requires. The aggregate principal amount of each of the Additional 2012 Notes and Additional 2014 Notes shall be unlimited.
     (3) The entire Outstanding principal of the 2012 Notes and 2014 Notes shall be payable on December 28, 2012 and November 20, 2014, respectively.
     (4) The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 2.150% per year for the 2012 Notes and 3.250% per year for the 2014 Notes plus Special Interest, if any, payable pursuant to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement and as set forth in the Notes. The date from which interest shall accrue on the 2012 Notes shall be November 20, 2009, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the 2012 Notes shall be June 28 and December 28 of each year, beginning June 28, 2010. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the June 13 and December 13 prior to each Interest Payment Date (in connection with the 2012 Notes, a ""). The date from which interest shall accrue on the 2014 Notes shall be November 20, 2009, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the 2014 Notes shall be May 20 and November 20 of each year, beginning May 20, 2010. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the May 5 and November 5 prior to each Interest Payment Date (in connection with the 2014 Notes, a ""). The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
regular record date
regular record date
     (5) The Notes shall be issuable in whole in the form of one or more registered Restricted Global Securities, and the Depository for such Restricted Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York. The Notes shall be substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (2012 Notes) and Exhibit B (2014 Notes) the terms of which are herein incorporated by reference. The Notes shall be issuable in denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
     (6) The Notes may be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the maturity date, as provided in Section 1.3.
     (7) The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
     (8) Except as provided herein, the holders of the Notes shall have no special rights in addition to those provided in the Base Indenture upon the occurrence of any particular events.
     (9) The Notes will be general unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company and will be ranked equally among themselves.
 
     (10) The Notes are not convertible into shares of common stock or other securities of the Company.
     (11) The restrictive covenant set forth in Section 1.4 shall be applicable to the Notes.
Section 1.2
Additional Defined Terms
     As used herein, the following defined terms shall have the following meanings with respect to the Notes only:
          "" means the Notes are downgraded below Investment Grade Rating by any two of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "") commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Company of the occurrence of a Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by at least two of such Rating Agencies on such 60th day, such extension to last with respect to each such Rating Agency until the date on which such Rating Agency considering such possible downgrade either (x) rates the Notes below Investment Grade or (y) publicly announces that it is no longer considering the Notes for possible downgrade, provided that no such extension will occur if on such 60th day the Notes are rated Investment Grade by at least two of such Rating Agencies in question and are not subject to review for possible downgrade by such Rating Agencies).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
Trigger Period
          "" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) as a result of which any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any "person" or "group" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), or any "person" or "group" consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's board of directors are not Continuing Directors; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company (which shall include a parent
Change of Control
 
company) and (b)(i) the holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of our Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (ii) no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following such transaction.
          "" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
          "" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
          "" means, with respect to any redemption date, (a) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (b) if we obtain fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the arithmetic average of those quotations or (c) if we obtain only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation, such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
          "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of the Company who (1) was a member of the board of directors of the Company on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to the board of directors of the Company with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors of the Company at the time of such nomination or election (either by specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
          "" means the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2009, between the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, relating to the Notes, as such agreement may be amended or supplemented from time to time and, with respect to any debt securities (other than the Notes) issued under this Indenture as part of the same series as the Notes, one or more registration rights agreements between the Company and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of such additional debt securities to register such additional debt securities under the Securities Act.
Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement
          "" means Fitch Ratings Limited.
Fitch
          "" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company as Independent Investment Banker (initially, Banc of America Securities LLC).
Independent Investment Banker
 
          "" means a rating by Moody's equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent under a successor rating category of Moody's) or a rating by S&P equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P) or a rating by Fitch equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of Fitch).
Investment Grade Rating
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
          "" means (1) Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for any reason, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
          "" means each of (i) Banc of America Securities LLC and Barclays Capital Inc., and their respective successors and (ii) two other nationally recognized investment banking firms (or their affiliates) that the Company selects in connection with the particular redemption, and their respective successors, provided that if at any time any of the above is not a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, the Company will substitute that entity with another nationally recognized investment banking firm that the Company selects that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
          "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the arithmetic average, as determined by the trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
          "" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC business and any successor to its rating agency business.
S&P
          "" means, for any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated yield to maturity, computed as the second business day immediately preceding that redemption date, of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that redemption date.
Treasury Rate
          "" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
          "" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
 
          "" means all additional interest then owing pursuant to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement.
Special Interest
Section 1.3 .
Optional Redemption
     (a) The provisions of Article Three of the Base Indenture, as amended by the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes.
     (b) The 2012 Notes and the 2014 Notes shall be redeemable, in each case, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Company's option. Upon redemption of the Notes, the Company shall pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
, in addition to such Redemption Price, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Securityholders of such Notes registered as such at the close of business on the applicable record date pursuant to the Notes and the Indenture.
plus
     (c) On and after the Redemption Date for the Notes, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any. On or before the Redemption Date for the Notes, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or a Paying Agent, funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the Notes to be redeemed on the Redemption Date, and (except if the date fixed for redemption shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes shall be redeemed in accordance with Section 3.02 of the Base Indenture.
     (d) Notice of any redemption shall be mailed at least 15 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each holder of the Notes to be redeemed; provided, however, that the Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Date at least 15 days prior to the date of the giving of such notice (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee). Such notice shall be provided in accordance with Section 3.02 of the Base Indenture. If the Redemption Price cannot be determined at the time such notice is to be given, the actual Redemption Price, calculated as described above in clause (b), shall be set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company delivered to the Trustee no later than two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date. Notice of redemption having been given as provided in the Indenture, the
 
Notes called for redemption shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption Date, and from and after such Redemption Date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any) such Notes shall cease to bear interest. Installments of interest on the Notes to be redeemed that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable on the Interest Payment Date in accordance with the Indenture.
Section 1.4 .
Additional Covenant
     The following additional covenant shall apply with respect to the Notes so long as any of the Notes remain Outstanding:
     (1) Change of Control Triggering Event.
     (a) If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Notes, unless the Company shall have exercised its option to redeem the 2012 Notes and 2014 Notes in full, as set forth in Section 1.3 of this First Supplemental Indenture, or have defeased the Notes or have satisfied and discharged the Notes, as set forth in Article XI of the Base Indenture, the Company shall make an offer (the "") to each holder of the 2012 Notes and 2014 Notes to repurchase any and all of such holder's 2012 Notes and 2014 Notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2012 Notes and 2014 Notes to be repurchased (such principal amount to be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000), plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the 2012 Notes and 2014 Notes to be repurchased up to, but not including, the date of repurchase (the ""). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, notice shall be mailed to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 15 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "").
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
     (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
     The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as possible after the date of purchase.
     (c) The Company shall comply in all material respects with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of this Section 1.4, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 1.4 by virtue of any such conflict.
Section 1.5 .
Events of Default
     (a) With respect to the Notes, "" means any one or more of the following events that has occurred and is continuing:
Event of Default
     (1) default in the payment of the principal or any premium on any Note of that series when due (whether at maturity, upon acceleration, redemption or otherwise);
     (2) default for 30 days in the payment of interest on any Note of such series when due;
     (3) failure by the Company to comply with Section 1.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture;
     (4) failure by the Company to observe or perform any term of the Indenture (other than those referred to in (1), (2) or (3) above and other than a covenant or agreement included in this Indenture not for the benefit of such series) for a period of 90 days after the Company receives a notice of default stating that the Company is in breach. The notice must be sent by either the Trustee or Holders of 25% of the principal amount of the Notes of the affected series;
     (5) (A) failure by the Company to pay indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or for which the Company has guaranteed the payment, in an aggregate principal amount of at least $100,000,000, at the later of final maturity and the expiration of any related applicable grace period and such defaulted payment shall not have been made, waived or extended within 30 days or (B) acceleration of the maturity of any indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or for which the Company has guaranteed the payment, in an aggregate principal amount of at least $100,000,000, if such indebtedness has not been discharged in full or such acceleration has not been rescinded or annulled within 30 days; , that, if the default under the instrument is cured by the Company, or waived by the holders of the indebtedness, in each case as permitted by the governing instrument, then the Event of Default under this Indenture caused by such default will be deemed likewise to be cured or waived;
provided, however
     (6) the entry by a court having competent jurisdiction of:
 
     (A) an order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law and such order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
     (B) a final and non-appealable order appointing a Custodian of the Company, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company, and such order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days;
     (7) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or the consent by the Company to the entry of a decree or order for relief in an involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law, or the filing by the Company of a consent to an order for relief in any involuntary proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law , or to the appointment of a Custodian or the making by the Company of an assignment for the benefit of creditors.
Section 2.1 .
Definitions
     Capitalized terms used but not defined in this First Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Base Indenture.
Section 2.2 .
Confirmation of Indenture
     The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Section 2.3 .
Concerning the Trustee
     In carrying out the Trustee's responsibilities hereunder, the Trustee shall have all of the rights, protections and immunities which it possesses under the Indenture. The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except the Trustee's certificate of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture or of the Notes. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of the Notes or the proceeds thereof.
Section 2.4 .
Governing Law
     This First Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in
 
accordance with the laws of said State without regard to conflicts of laws principles that would require the application of any other law.
Section 2.5 .
Separability
     In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 2.6 .
Counterparts
     This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 2.7 .
No Benefit
     Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person other than the parties hereto and their successors or assigns, and the holders of the Notes, any benefit or legal or equitable rights, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture or the Base Indenture.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
[Insert the Private Placement Legend and/or the Global Security legend, as applicable]
promises to pay to or registered assigns, the principal sum of THREE HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION Dollars on December 28, 2012.
Interest Payment Dates: June 28 and December 28
Record Dates: June 13 and December 13
     Each holder of this Security (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Security hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
     This Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Security are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed in accordance with Section 2.04 of the Indenture.
Date: November 20, 2009
 
This is one of the 2.150% Senior Notes due 2012 issued by Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Date: November 20, 2009
 
This security is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's unsubordinated debt securities, dated as of November 20, 2009 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2009 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "Indenture." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This security is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "Security," and collectively, the "Securities"), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the holders of the Securities (the "Securityholders"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
     1. . The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at an annual rate of 2.150%. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on June 28 and December 28 of each year (each such day, an "Interest Payment Date"). If any Interest Payment Date, redemption date or maturity date of this Security is not a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date such payment was due, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date to the date of such payment on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that, if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Security is authenticated between a regular record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; and provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be June 28, 2010. Interest will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In certain circumstances, Special Interest may be payable as provided in Section 1.1(4) of the First Supplemental Indenture. Any such Special Interest shall be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated interest payable on this Security.
Interest
     2. . The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Securities are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Security for such interest installment. In the event that the Securities or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Securities will instead be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Securities as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Securities shall be payable in the coin or currency of the
Method of Payment
 
United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
     3. . Initially, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee, will act as paying agent and Security Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any paying agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Securityholder. The Company or any of their Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
     4. . The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("TIA") as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Securities are unsecured general obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "2.150% Senior Notes due 2012", initially limited to $350,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., 81 Wyman Street Waltham, Massachusetts, Attention: Seth H. Hoogasian.
Indenture
     5. . The Securities may be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the maturity date, as provided in Section 1.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Optional Redemption
     The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Securities.
     6. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem this Security or the Company has defeased this Security or satisfied and discharged this Security, the holder of this Security will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion, (such principal amount to be equal to $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000), of this Security at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the amount to be repurchased to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder, in accordance with Section 1.4(1)(a) of the First Supplemental Indenture, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Change of Control Triggering Event
     7. . The Securities are in registered form without coupons in the denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Securities may be registered and Securities may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Securities may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer (duly endorsed or with the form of transfer endorsed thereon duly executed if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) at the office of the Security Registrar or at the office of any transfer agent designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but a Securityholder may be required to pay any applicable taxes or other governmental charges. If the Securities are to be redeemed, the
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
Company will not be required to: (i) issue, register the transfer of, or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all of the outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing; (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Security of any series or portions thereof selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any such Security being redeemed in part; nor (iii) register the transfer of or exchange of a Security of any series between the applicable record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
     8. . The registered Securityholder may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
     9. . Any funds or Governmental Obligations deposited with any paying agent or the Trustee, or then held by the Company, in trust for payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least one year after the date upon which the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company, as applicable, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company, as applicable, for payment as unsecured general creditors.
Repayment to the Company
     10. . The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
     11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the securities of a series issued pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if notice is given by such holders), may declare the unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest, if any, due and payable immediately. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights or powers under the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the holders, unless such holders have offered the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture will have the right to
Defaults and Remedies
 
direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the securities of such series.
     12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, or any paying agent or Security Registrar, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent or Security Registrar.
Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar May Hold Securities
     13. . No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect hereof or thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that the Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder and thereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, shareholders, officers or directors as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, shareholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the acceptance of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others
     14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to discharge and defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
     15. . This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Security.
Authentication
     16. . The Company is obligated to pay Other Additional Amounts on this Security to the extent provided in Section 10.03 of the Indenture.
Additional Amounts
     17. . In addition to the rights provided to the Holders of Securities under the Indenture, Holders shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 20, 2009, among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof.
Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement
     18. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants
Abbreviations
 
by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
     19. . The Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and this Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State.
Governing Law
 
          To assign this Security, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Security to
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
and irrevocably appoint _________________________________________________________________ agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
Date:
                    
                    
Signature Guarantee:
                    
                    
 
          If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.4(1) of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
      1.4(1) Change of Control Triggering Event
o
          If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.4(1) of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $.
                    
 
[Insert the Private Placement Legend and/or the Global Security legend, as applicable]
promises to pay to            or registered assigns, the principal sum of FOUR HUNDRED MILLION Dollars on November 20, 2014.
Interest Payment Dates: May 20 and November 20
Record Dates: May 5 and November 5
          Each holder of this Security (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Security hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
          This Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Security are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed in accordance with Section 2.04 of the Indenture.
Date: November 20, 2009
 
This is one of the 3.250% Senior Notes due 2014 issued by Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Date: November 20, 2009
 
This security is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's unsubordinated debt securities, dated as of November 20, 2009 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2009 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "Indenture." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This security is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "Security," and collectively, the "Securities"), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the holders of the Securities (the "Securityholders"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
     1. . The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at an annual rate of 3.250%. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on May 20 and November 20 of each year (each such day, an "Interest Payment Date"). If any Interest Payment Date, redemption date or maturity date of this Security is not a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date such payment was due, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date to the date of such payment on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that, if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Security is authenticated between a regular record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; and provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be May 20, 2010. Interest will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In certain circumstances, Special Interest may be payable as provided in Section 1.1(4) of the First Supplemental Indenture. Any such Special Interest shall be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated interest payable on this Security.
Interest
     2. . The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Securities are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Security for such interest installment. In the event that the Securities or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Securities will instead be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Securities as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Securities shall be payable in the coin or currency of the
Method of Payment
 
United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
     3. . Initially, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee, will act as paying agent and Security Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any paying agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Securityholder. The Company or any of their Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
     4. . The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("TIA") as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Securities are unsecured general obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "3.250% Senior Notes due 2014", initially limited to $400,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., 81 Wyman Street Waltham, Massachusetts, Attention: Seth H. Hoogasian.
Indenture
     5. . The Securities may be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the maturity date, as provided in Section 1.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Optional Redemption
     The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Securities.
     6. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem this Security or the Company has defeased this Security or satisfied and discharged this Security, the holder of this Security will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion, (such principal amount to be equal to $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000), of this Security at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the amount to be repurchased to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder, in accordance with Section 1.4(1)(a) of the First Supplemental Indenture, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Change of Control Triggering Event
     7. . The Securities are in registered form without coupons in the denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Securities may be registered and Securities may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Securities may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer (duly endorsed or with the form of transfer endorsed thereon duly executed if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) at the office of the Security Registrar or at the office of any transfer agent designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but a Securityholder may be required to pay any applicable taxes or other governmental charges. If the Securities are to be redeemed, the
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
Company will not be required to: (i) issue, register the transfer of, or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all of the outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing; (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Security of any series or portions thereof selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any such Security being redeemed in part; nor (iii) register the transfer of or exchange of a Security of any series between the applicable record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
     8. . The registered Securityholder may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
     9. . Any funds or Governmental Obligations deposited with any paying agent or the Trustee, or then held by the Company, in trust for payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least one year after the date upon which the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company, as applicable, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company, as applicable, for payment as unsecured general creditors.
Repayment to the Company
     10. . The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
     11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the securities of a series issued pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if notice is given by such holders), may declare the unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest, if any, due and payable immediately. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights or powers under the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the holders, unless such holders have offered the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture will have the right to
Defaults and Remedies
 
direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the securities of such series.
     12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, or any paying agent or Security Registrar, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent or Security Registrar.
Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar May Hold Securities
     13. . No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect hereof or thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that the Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder and thereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, shareholders, officers or directors as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, shareholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the acceptance of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others
     14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to discharge and defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
     15. . This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Security.
Authentication
     16. . The Company is obligated to pay Other Additional Amounts on this Security to the extent provided in Section 10.03 of the Indenture.
Additional Amounts
     17. . In addition to the rights provided to the Holders of Securities under the Indenture, Holders shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 20, 2009, among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof.
Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement
     18. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants
Abbreviations
 
by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
     19. . The Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and this Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State.
Governing Law
 
          To assign this Security, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Security to
          
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
and irrevocably appoint ________________________________________________________________________________ agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Date:
                    
                    
Signature Guarantee:
                    
                    
                    
 
          If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.4(1) of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
      1.4(1) Change of Control Triggering Event
o
          If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.4(1) of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $.
                    

Exhibit 99.3
EXECUTION COPY
November 20, 2009
Banc of America Securities LLC Barclays Capital Inc.      As representatives of the several Purchasers      named in Schedule A to the Purchase Agreement c/o Banc of America Securities LLC One Bryant Park New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the Purchasers (as defined herein) upon the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement (as defined herein) its $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.150% Senior Notes due 2012 and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.250% Senior Notes due 2014. As an inducement to the Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and in satisfaction of a condition to the obligations of the Purchasers thereunder, the Company agrees with the Purchasers for the benefit of holders (as defined herein) from time to time of the Registrable Securities (as defined herein) as follows:
Company
          SECTION 1. . For purposes of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement (which is sometimes referred to herein as the ""), the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
Certain Definitions
Agreement
          "" shall mean the interest that would otherwise accrue on the Securities under the terms thereof and the Indenture, without giving effect to the provisions of this Agreement.
Base Interest
          The term "" shall mean any broker or dealer registered with the Commission under the Exchange Act.
broker-dealer
          "" shall mean the date on which the Securities are initially issued.
Closing Date
          "" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or any other federal agency at the time administering the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, whichever is the relevant statute for the particular purpose.
Commission
          "" means the EDGAR filing system of the Commission and the rules and regulations pertaining thereto promulgated by the Commission in Regulation S-T under
EDGAR System
 
the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, in each such case as the same may be amended or succeeded from time to time (and without regard to format).
          "," in the case of (i) an Exchange Registration, shall mean the time and date as of which the Commission declares the Exchange Registration Statement effective or as of which the Exchange Registration Statement otherwise becomes effective and (ii) a Shelf Registration, shall mean the time and date as of which the Commission declares the Shelf Registration Statement effective or as of which the Shelf Registration Statement otherwise becomes effective.
Effective Time
          "" shall mean any holder of Registrable Securities that has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company in accordance with Section 3(d)(ii) or 3(d)(iii) hereof.
Electing Holder
          "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any successor thereto, as the same shall be amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 3(c) hereof.
Exchange Registration
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Registration Statement
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Securities
          "" shall mean the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA
          "" means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of the Company or used or referred to by the Company in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Free Writing Prospectus
          The term "" shall mean each of the Purchasers and other persons who acquire Registrable Securities from time to time (including any successors or assigns), in each case for so long as such person owns any Registrable Securities.
holder
          "" shall mean the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2009, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, as supplemented by the first supplemental indenture dated as of November 20, 2009 between the Company and the Trustee and as the same shall be further amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Indenture
          "" means a Notice of Registration Statement and Selling Securityholder Questionnaire substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto.
Notice and Questionnaire
 
          The term "" shall mean a corporation, limited liability company, association, partnership, organization, business, individual, government or political subdivision thereof or governmental agency.
person
          "" shall mean the Purchase Agreement, dated November 13, 2009 among the Purchasers and the Company relating to the Securities.
Purchase Agreement
          "" shall mean the Purchasers named in Schedule A to the Purchase Agreement.
Purchasers
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(c) hereof.
Qualifying Securities
          "" shall mean the Securities; that a Security shall cease to be a Registrable Security upon the earliest to occur of the following: (i) in the circumstances contemplated by Section 2(a) hereof, the Security has been exchanged for an Exchange Security in an Exchange Offer as contemplated in Section 2(a) hereof (that any Exchange Security that, pursuant to the last two sentences of Section 2(a), is included in a prospectus for use in connection with resales by broker-dealers shall be deemed to be a Registrable Security with respect to Sections 5, 6 and 9 until resale of such Registrable Security has been effected within the Resale Period referred to in Section 2(a)); (ii) in the circumstances contemplated by Section 2(b) hereof, a Shelf Registration Statement registering such Security under the Securities Act has been declared or becomes effective and such Security has been sold or otherwise transferred by the holder thereof pursuant to and in a manner contemplated by such effective Shelf Registration Statement; (iii) such Security is sold pursuant to Rule 144 under circumstances in which any legend borne by such Security relating to restrictions on transferability thereof, under the Securities Act or otherwise, is removed by the Company or pursuant to the Indenture; (iv) such Security is eligible to be resold to the public pursuant to Rule 144 and any legend borne by such Security relating to restrictions on transferability thereof has been removed by the Company; or (v) such Security shall cease to be outstanding.
Registrable Securities
provided, however,
provided
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(c) hereof.
Registration Default
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(c).
Registration Default Period
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 4 hereof.
Registration Expenses
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(a) hereof.
Resale Period
          "" shall mean (i) a holder that is an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of Rule 405, (ii) a holder who acquires Exchange Securities outside the ordinary course of such holder's business, (iii) a holder who has arrangements or understandings with any person to participate in the Exchange Offer for the purpose of distributing Exchange Securities and (iv) a holder that is a broker-dealer, but only with respect to Exchange Securities
Restricted Holder
 
received by such broker-dealer pursuant to an Exchange Offer in exchange for Registrable Securities acquired by the broker-dealer directly from the Company.
          "," """ shall mean, in each case, such rule promulgated under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as the same shall be amended from time to time.
Rule 144
Rule 405" and
Rule 415
          "" shall mean, collectively, the $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.150% Senior Notes due 2012 and the $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.250% Senior Notes due 2014 of the Company to be issued and sold to the Purchasers, and securities issued in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof pursuant to the Indenture.
Securities
          "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, or any successor thereto, as the same shall be amended from time to time.
Securities Act
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(c) hereof.
Special Interest
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 3(i) hereof.
Suspension Event
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(c) hereof.
Suspension Period
          "" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(b).
Trigger Date
          "" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, or any successor thereto, and the rules, regulations and forms promulgated thereunder, all as the same shall be amended from time to time.
Trust Indenture Act
          Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference herein to a "Section" or "clause" refers to a Section or clause, as the case may be, of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, and the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section or other subdivision.
          SECTION 2. .
Registration Under the Securities Act
          (a) Except as set forth in Section 2(b) below, the Company agrees to file under the Securities Act, as soon as practicable, but no later than 150 days after the Closing Date, a registration statement relating to an offer to exchange (such registration statement, the "", and such offer, the "") any and all of the Securities for a like aggregate principal amount of debt securities issued by the Company, which
Exchange Registration Statement
Exchange Offer
 
debt securities are substantially identical to the Securities (and are entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, which has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act), except that they have been registered pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and do not contain provisions for the additional interest contemplated in Section 2(c) below (such new debt securities hereinafter called ""). The Company agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable, but no later than 200 days after the Closing Date. The Exchange Offer will be registered under the Securities Act on the appropriate form and will comply with all applicable tender offer rules and regulations under the Exchange Act. The Company further agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to commence and complete the Exchange Offer promptly, but no later than 45 days after such registration statement has become effective, hold the Exchange Offer open for at least 30 days and exchange Exchange Securities for all Registrable Securities that have been properly tendered and not withdrawn on or prior to the expiration of the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer will be deemed to have been "completed" only if the debt securities received by holders other than Restricted Holders in the Exchange Offer for Registrable Securities are, upon receipt, transferable by each such holder without restriction under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and without material restrictions under the blue sky or securities laws of a substantial majority of the States of the United States of America. The Exchange Offer shall be deemed to have been completed upon the earlier to occur of (i) the Company having exchanged the Exchange Securities for all outstanding Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer and (ii) the Company having exchanged, pursuant to the Exchange Offer, Exchange Securities for all Registrable Securities that have been properly tendered and not withdrawn before the expiration of the Exchange Offer, which shall be on a date that is at least 30 days following the commencement of the Exchange Offer. The Company agrees (x) to include in the Exchange Registration Statement a prospectus for use in any resales by any holder of Exchange Securities that is a broker-dealer and (y) to keep such Exchange Registration Statement effective for a period (the "") beginning when Exchange Securities are first issued in the Exchange Offer and ending upon the earlier of the expiration of the 180th day after the Exchange Offer has been completed or such time as such broker-dealers no longer own any Registrable Securities. With respect to such Exchange Registration Statement, each such holder shall have the benefit of the rights of indemnification and contribution set forth in Sections 6(a), (c), (d) and (e) hereof.
Exchange Securities
Resale Period
          (b) If (i) on or prior to the time the Exchange Offer is completed, any law, Commission rules or regulations or applicable interpretations thereof by the staff of the Commission are changed such that the debt securities received by holders other than Restricted Holders in the Exchange Offer for Registrable Securities are not or would not be, upon receipt, transferable by each such holder without restriction under the Securities Act, (ii) the Exchange Offer has not been completed within 245 days following the Closing Date or (iii) the Exchange Offer is not available to any holder of the Securities (the date on which any of the conditions described in (i) through (iii) above occurs, a ""), the Company shall, in lieu of (or, in the case of clause (iii), in addition to) conducting the Exchange Offer contemplated by Section 2(a), file under the Securities Act as soon as practicable, but no later than the later of 60 days after the Trigger Date (but in no event fewer than 150 days after the Closing Date), a "shelf" registration statement providing for the registration of, and the sale on a continuous or delayed basis by the holders of, all of the Registrable Securities, pursuant to Rule 415 or any
Trigger Date
 
similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission (such filing, the "" and such registration statement, the ""). The Company agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts (x) to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective no later than 120 days after the Trigger Date and to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective for a period ending on the earlier of the first anniversary of the Effective Time or such time as all of the Registrable Securities have been sold thereunder or cease to be outstanding or cease otherwise to be Registrable Securities, , , that no holder shall be entitled to be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or to use the prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Registrable Securities unless such holder is an Electing Holder, and (y) after the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, promptly upon the request of any holder of Registrable Securities that is not then an Electing Holder, to use commercially reasonable efforts to enable such holder to use the prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Registrable Securities, including, without limitation, any action necessary to identify such holder as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement, , , that nothing in this clause (y) shall relieve any such holder of the obligation to return a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company in accordance with Section 3(d)(iii) hereof. The Company further agrees to supplement or make amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement, as and when required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or rules and regulations thereunder for shelf registration, and the Company agrees to furnish to each Electing Holder copies of any such supplement or amendment prior to its being used or promptly following its filing with the Commission.
Shelf Registration
Shelf Registration Statement
provided
however
provided
however
          The Company's obligation to file a Shelf Registration Statement under clause (i) of this Section 2(b), to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to become and remain effective and to comply with its other undertakings in this Section 2(b) shall terminate upon the completion of the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 2(a).
          (c) In the event that (i) the Company has not filed the Exchange Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement on or before the date on which such registration statement is required to be filed pursuant to Section 2(a) or 2(b), respectively, or (ii) such Exchange Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement has not become effective or been declared effective by the Commission on or before the date on which such registration statement is required to become or be declared effective pursuant to Section 2(a) or 2(b), respectively, or (iii) the Exchange Offer has not been completed within 45 days after the initial effective date of the Exchange Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Offer (if the Exchange Offer is then required to be made), (iv) any Exchange Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement required by Section 2(a) or 2(b) hereof is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter either be withdrawn by the Company or shall become subject to an effective stop order issued pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement (except as specifically permitted herein) without being succeeded immediately by an additional registration statement filed and declared effective; or (v) the Company requires Holders to refrain from disposing of their Registrable Securities due to a Suspension Event (as defined in Section 3(i)) to the extent that such period exceeds 45 days in any one instance or 90 days in the aggregate during any consecutive 12-month period (a "") (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (v), a "
Suspension Period
Registration
 
" and each period during which a Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, a ""), then, as liquidated damages for such Registration Default, subject to the provisions of Section 9(b), special interest (""), in addition to the Base Interest, shall accrue at a per annum rate of 0.25% for the first 90 days of the Registration Default Period, and at a per annum rate of 0.50% thereafter for the remaining portion of the Registration Default Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) in the event that the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective on or before the date on which it is required to be filed pursuant to Section 2(b), Special Interest will only be payable with respect to Registrable Securities that are held by Electing Holders and otherwise entitled to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement, and whose inclusion has been requested therein ("") and (y) once the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective, Special Interest payable for Registration Defaults with respect to the Exchange Registration Statement under clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 2(c) will cease to accrue with respect to Qualifying Securities that have been included in the Shelf Registration Statement, and interest on such Qualifying Securities will revert to its original rate. In no event shall the Company be required to pay Special Interest for more than one Registration Default at a time.
Default
Registration Default Period
Special Interest
Qualifying Securities
          (d) The Company shall take all actions necessary or advisable to be taken by them to ensure that the transactions contemplated herein are effected as so contemplated.
          (e) Any reference herein, other than any such reference in Section 3(d)(vi), to a registration statement or prospectus as of any time shall be deemed to include any document incorporated, or deemed to be incorporated, therein by reference as of such time and any reference herein, other than any such reference in Section 3(d)(vi), to any post-effective amendment to a registration statement or to any prospectus supplement as of any time shall be deemed to include any document incorporated, or deemed to be incorporated, therein by reference as of such time.
          SECTION 3. .
Registration Procedures
          If the Company files a registration statement pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b), the following provisions shall apply:
     (a) At or before the Effective Time of the Exchange Offer or the Shelf Registration, as the case may be, the Company shall qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
     (b) In the event that such qualification would require the appointment of a new trustee under the Indenture, the Company shall appoint a new trustee thereunder pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture.
     (c) In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the registration of Exchange Securities as contemplated by Section 2(a) (the ""), if applicable, the Company shall, as soon as practicable (or as otherwise specified):
Exchange Registration
     (i) prepare and file with the Commission, as soon as practicable but no later than 150 days after the Closing Date, an Exchange Registration Statement
 
on any form which may be utilized by the Company and which shall permit the Exchange Offer and resales of Exchange Securities by broker-dealers during the Resale Period to be effected as contemplated by Section 2(a), and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Exchange Registration Statement to become effective as soon as practicable thereafter, but no later than 200 days after the Closing Date;
     (ii) subject to the provisions of Section 3(i), as soon as practicable prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and supplements to such Exchange Registration Statement and the prospectus included therein as may be necessary to effect and maintain the effectiveness of such Exchange Registration Statement for the periods and purposes contemplated in Section 2(a) hereof and as may be required by the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and the instructions applicable to the form of such Exchange Registration Statement, and promptly provide each broker-dealer holding Exchange Securities with such number of copies of the prospectus included therein (as then amended or supplemented), in conformity in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, as such broker-dealer reasonably may request prior to the expiration of the Resale Period, for use in connection with resales of Exchange Securities;
     (iii) promptly notify each broker-dealer that has requested or received copies of the prospectus included in such Exchange Registration Statement, and confirm such advice in writing, (A) when such Exchange Registration Statement or the prospectus included therein or any prospectus amendment or supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to such Exchange Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective, (B) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of such Exchange Registration Statement or the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for that purpose, or (C) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Exchange Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose;
     (iv) use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of such Exchange Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto at the earliest practicable date;
     (v) use its commercially reasonable efforts to (A) register or qualify the Exchange Securities under the securities laws or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as are contemplated by Section 2(a) no later than the commencement of the Exchange Offer, to the extent required by such laws, (B) keep such registrations or qualifications in effect and comply with such laws so as to permit the continuance of offers, sales and dealings therein in such jurisdictions until the expiration of the Resale Period and (C) take any and all other actions as may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each broker-dealer holding Exchange
 
Securities to consummate the disposition thereof in such jurisdictions; , , that the Company shall not be required for any such purpose to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction wherein it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for the requirements of this Section 3(c)(v), (2) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction or subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not currently so subject or (3) make any changes to its certificate of incorporation, by-laws or similar organizational document or any agreement between it and its stockholders;
provided
however
     (vi) use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the consent or approval of each governmental agency or authority, whether federal, state or local, which may be required to effect the Exchange Registration, the Exchange Offer and the offering and sale of Exchange Securities by broker-dealers during the Resale Period;
     (vii) provide a CUSIP number for each series of Exchange Securities, not later than the applicable Effective Time; and
     (viii) comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission.
     (d) In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the Shelf Registration, if applicable, as contemplated by Section 2(b) the Company shall, as soon as practicable (or as otherwise specified):
     (i) prepare and file with the Commission, as soon as practicable but in any case within the time periods specified in Section 2(b), a Shelf Registration Statement on any form which may be utilized by the Company and which shall register all of the Registrable Securities for resale by the holders thereof in accordance with such method or methods of disposition as may be specified by such of the holders as, from time to time, may be Electing Holders and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to become effective as soon as practicable but in any case within the time periods specified in Section 2(b);
     (ii) not less than 30 calendar days prior to the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, mail the Notice and Questionnaire to the holders of Registrable Securities; no holder shall be entitled to be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement as of the Effective Time, and no holder shall be entitled to use the prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Registrable Securities at any time, unless such holder has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company by the deadline for response set forth therein; , , holders of Registrable Securities shall have at least 21 calendar days from the date on which the Notice and Questionnaire is first mailed to such holders to return a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company;
provided
however
 
     (iii) after the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, upon the request of any holder of Registrable Securities that is not then an Electing Holder, promptly send a Notice and Questionnaire to such holder; that the Company shall not be required to take any action to name such holder as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or to enable such holder to use the prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Registrable Securities until such holder has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company;
provided
     (iv) subject to Section 3(i), as soon as practicable prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and supplements to such Shelf Registration Statement and the prospectus included therein as may be necessary to effect and maintain the effectiveness of such Shelf Registration Statement for the period specified in Section 2(b) hereof and as may be required by the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and the instructions applicable to the form of such Shelf Registration Statement, and furnish to the Electing Holders copies of any such supplement or amendment simultaneously with or prior to its being used or filed with the Commission, to the extent such documents are not publicly available on the Commission's EDGAR System;
     (v) comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all of the Registrable Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the Electing Holders provided for in such Shelf Registration Statement;
     (vi) provide (A) the Electing Holders, (B) the underwriters (which term, for purposes of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, shall include a person deemed to be an underwriter within the meaning of Section 2(a)(11) of the Securities Act), if any, thereof, (C) any sales or placement agent therefor, (D) counsel for any such underwriter or agent and (E) not more than one counsel for all the Electing Holders the opportunity to participate in the preparation of such Shelf Registration Statement, each prospectus included therein or filed with the Commission and each amendment or supplement thereto;
     (vii) promptly notify each of the Electing Holders, any sales or placement agent therefor and any underwriter thereof (which notification may be made through any managing underwriter that is a representative of such underwriter for such purpose) and confirm such advice in writing, (A) when such Shelf Registration Statement or the prospectus included therein or any prospectus amendment or supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to such Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective, (B) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of such Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for that purpose, (C) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, or (D) if at any time
 
when a prospectus is required to be delivered under the Securities Act, that offers and sales of Exchange Securities should be suspended as provided in Section 3(i);
     (viii) use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto at the earliest practicable date;
     (ix) if requested by any managing underwriter or underwriters, any placement or sales agent or any Electing Holder, promptly incorporate in a prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information as is required by the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and as such managing underwriter or underwriters, such agent or such Electing Holder specifies should be included therein relating to the terms of the sale of such Registrable Securities, including information with respect to the principal amount of Registrable Securities being sold by such Electing Holder or agent or to any underwriters, the name and description of such Electing Holder, agent or underwriter, the offering price of such Registrable Securities and any discount, commission or other compensation payable in respect thereof, the purchase price being paid therefor by such underwriters and with respect to any other terms of the offering of the Registrable Securities to be sold by such Electing Holder or agent or to such underwriters; and make all required filings of such prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment promptly after notification of the matters to be incorporated in such prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment;
     (x) furnish to each Electing Holder, each placement or sales agent, if any, therefor, each underwriter, if any, thereof and the respective counsel referred to in Section 3(d)(vi) a copy of such Shelf Registration Statement, each such amendment and supplement thereto (in each case including all exhibits thereto (in the case of an Electing Holder of Registrable Securities, upon request) and documents incorporated by reference therein), in each case to the extent such documents are not publicly available on the Commission's EDGAR System, and such number of copies of such Shelf Registration Statement (excluding exhibits thereto and documents incorporated by reference therein unless specifically so requested by such Electing Holder, agent or underwriter, as the case may be) and of the prospectus included in such Shelf Registration Statement (including each preliminary prospectus and any summary prospectus), in conformity in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder in order to facilitate the offering and disposition of the Registrable Securities owned by such Electing Holder, offered or sold by such agent or underwritten by such underwriter and to permit such Electing Holder, agent and underwriter to satisfy the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; and the Company, subject to Section 3(i), hereby consents to the use of such prospectus (including such preliminary and summary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto by each such Electing Holder and by any such agent and underwriter, in each case in the form most recently provided to such person by the Company, in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities
 
covered by the prospectus (including such preliminary and summary prospectus) or any supplement or amendment thereto;
     (xi) use commercially reasonable efforts to (A) register or qualify the Registrable Securities to be included in such Shelf Registration Statement under such securities laws or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Electing Holder and each placement or sales agent, if any, therefor and underwriter, if any, thereof shall reasonably request, (B) keep such registrations or qualifications in effect and comply with such laws so as to permit the continuance of offers, sales and dealings therein in such jurisdictions during the period the Shelf Registration is required to remain effective under Section 2(b) and (C) take any and all other actions as may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each such Electing Holder, agent, if any, and underwriter, if any, to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Registrable Securities during the period the Shelf Registration is required to remain effective under Section 2(b); , , that the Company shall not be required for any such purpose to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction wherein it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for the requirements of this Section 3(d(xi), (2) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction or subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not currently so subject or (3) make any changes to its certificate of incorporation, by-laws or similar organizational document or any agreement between it and its stockholders;
provided
however
     (xii) use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the consent or approval of each governmental agency or authority, whether federal, state or local, which may be required to effect the Shelf Registration or the offering or sale in connection therewith or to enable the selling holder or holders to offer, or to consummate the disposition of, their Registrable Securities;
     (xiii) unless any Registrable Securities shall be in book-entry only form, cooperate with the Electing Holders and the managing underwriters, if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold, which certificates, if so required by any securities exchange upon which any Registrable Securities are listed, shall be penned, lithographed or engraved, or produced by any combination of such methods, on steel engraved borders, and which certificates shall not bear any restrictive legends; and, in the case of an underwritten offering, enable such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the managing underwriters may request at least two business days prior to any sale of the Registrable Securities, in each case as provided in the Indenture;
     (xiv) provide a CUSIP number for each series of Registrable Securities, not later than the applicable Effective Time;
     (xv) subject to the requirements of Section 7, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other reasonable actions in connection therewith
 
(including those requested in writing by the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, by means of an underwritten offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the holders and any underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries and the Shelf Registration Statement, prospectus and any documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference therein, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same at reasonable and customary times if reasonably requested, (2) in the case of an underwritten offering, obtain opinions of counsel to the Company (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the holders and such underwriters, counsel to the underwriters and the one counsel for the holders) addressed to each Electing Holder and underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (3) in the case of an underwritten offering, obtain "comfort" letters from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other certified public accountant of any subsidiary of the Company, or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement) addressed to each Electing Holder and underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings; (4) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold or the underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of the Company made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in any underwriting agreement; and (5) undertake such obligations relating to expense reimbursement, indemnification and contribution as are provided in Section 6 hereof;
     (xvi) notify in writing each holder of Registrable Securities of any proposal by the Company to amend or waive any provision of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement pursuant to Section 9(h) hereof and of any amendment or waiver effected pursuant thereto, each of which notices shall contain the text of the amendment or waiver proposed or effected, as the case may be;
     (xvii) in the event that any broker-dealer registered under the Exchange Act shall underwrite any Registrable Securities or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the Conduct Rules (the "") of FINRA or any successor thereto, as amended from time to time) thereof, whether as a holder of such Registrable Securities or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker
Conduct Rules
 
or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, assist such broker-dealer in complying with the requirements of such Conduct Rules, including by (A) if such Conduct Rules shall so require, engaging a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in such Conduct Rules) to participate in the preparation of the Shelf Registration Statement relating to such Registrable Securities, to exercise usual standards of due diligence in respect thereto and, if any portion of the offering contemplated by such Shelf Registration Statement is an underwritten offering or is made through a placement or sales agent, to recommend the yield of such Registrable Securities, (B) indemnifying any such qualified independent underwriter to the extent of the indemnification of underwriters provided in Section 6 hereof (or to such other customary extent as may be requested by such underwriter), and (C) providing such information to such broker-dealer as may be required in order for such broker-dealer to comply with the requirements of the Conduct Rules; and
     (xviii) comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission.
     (e) In the event that the Company, pursuant to Section 3(i) below, has notified the Electing Holders, the placement or sales agent, if any, therefor and the managing underwriters, if any, thereof, that offers and sales of Exchange Securities have been suspended, the Company, as soon as commercially practicable, will notify such persons when offers and sales of Exchange Securities may be made.
     (f) In the event of a Shelf Registration, in addition to the information required to be provided by each Electing Holder in its Notice and Questionnaire, the Company may require such Electing Holder to furnish to the Company such additional information regarding such Electing Holder and such Electing Holder's intended method of distribution of Registrable Securities as may be required in order to comply with the Securities Act. Each such Electing Holder agrees to notify the Company as promptly as practicable of any inaccuracy or change in information previously furnished by such Electing Holder to the Company or of the occurrence of any event in either case as a result of which any prospectus relating to such Shelf Registration contains or would contain an untrue statement of a material fact regarding such Electing Holder or such Electing Holder's intended method of disposition of such Registrable Securities or omits to state any material fact regarding such Electing Holder or such Electing Holder's intended method of disposition of such Registrable Securities required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, and promptly to furnish to the Company any additional information required to correct and update any previously furnished information or required so that such prospectus shall not contain, with respect to such Electing Holder or the disposition of such Registrable Securities, an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances under which they were made.
     (g) Until the earlier to occur of the expiration of one year after the Closing Date or the time that the Securities are freely resaleable pursuant to Rule 144, the
 
Company will not, and will not permit any of its "affiliates" (as defined in Rule 144) who are controlled by the Company to, resell any of the Securities that have been reacquired by any of them except pursuant to an effective registration statement or a valid exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act
     (h) The Company represents, warrants and covenants that it (including its agents and representatives) will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any Free Writing Prospectus.
     (i) The Company may suspend the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement (a "") by notifying the Electing Holders, the placement or sales agent, if any, and the managing underwriters, if any, that it is suspending the use of any Shelf Registration Statement and that such persons may not use such Shelf Registration Statement or any prospectus included therein for offers and sales of Securities; that, if such notice of a Suspension Event has been given to such persons, the Company shall, as promptly as practicable following a determination that the Suspension Event no longer exists and that such persons may recommence such offers and sales, notify such persons of such determination. Each Electing Holder, placement or sales agent, if any, and managing underwriter, if any, agrees that upon receipt of any notice from the Company pursuant to this Section 3(i), such person shall forthwith discontinue the disposition of Securities until such person shall have been notified by the Company that offers and sales of the Registrable Securities may recommence, and, if so directed by the Company, such person shall deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies (other than permanent file copies) of the prospectus in such person's possession at the time of receipt of such notice. If, upon termination of a Suspension Period, in the Company's judgment it is necessary to amend or supplement the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company will prepare and furnish to each Electing Holder, placement agent or underwriter, as requested, a reasonable number of copies of a prospectus supplemented or amended so that, as thereafter delivered to purchasers of such Securities during the Resale Period, such prospectus shall conform in all material respects to the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act.
Suspension Event
provided
          SECTION 4. .
Registration Expenses
          The Company agrees to bear and to pay, or cause to be paid promptly upon delivery of itemized invoices, all expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, including (a) all Commission and any FINRA registration, filing and review fees and expenses including reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for the placement or sales agent or underwriters in connection with such FINRA registration, filing and review, (b) all fees and expenses in connection with the qualification of the Securities for offering and sale under the State securities and blue sky laws referred to in Section 3(d)(xi) hereof and determination of their eligibility for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as any managing underwriters or the Electing Holders may designate, including any reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Electing Holders or underwriters in connection with such qualification and determination, (c) all expenses relating to the preparation, printing, production, distribution and reproduction of each registration statement required to be filed hereunder, each prospectus
 
included therein or prepared for distribution pursuant hereto, each amendment or supplement to the foregoing, the expenses of preparing the Securities for delivery and the expenses of printing or reproducing any underwriting agreements, agreements among underwriters, selling agreements and blue sky or legal investment memoranda and all other documents in connection with the offering, sale or delivery of Securities to be disposed of (including certificates representing the Securities), (d) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses relating to the offering, sale or delivery of Securities and the preparation of documents referred in clause (c) above, (e) fees and expenses of the Trustee under the Indenture, any agent of the Trustee and any counsel for the Trustee and of any collateral agent or custodian, (f) internal Company expenses (including all salaries and expenses of the Company's officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), (g) reasonable fees, disbursements and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" engaged pursuant to Section 3(d)(xviii) hereof, (h) reasonable fees, disbursements and expenses of one counsel for the Electing Holders retained in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, as selected by the Electing Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities held by Electing Holders (which counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Company), (i) any fees charged by securities rating services for rating the Securities, and (j) fees, expenses and disbursements of any other persons, including special experts, retained by the Company in connection with such registration (collectively, the ""). To the extent that any Registration Expenses are incurred, assumed or paid by any holder of Registrable Securities or any placement or sales agent therefor or underwriter thereof, the Company shall reimburse such person for the full amount of the Registration Expenses so incurred, assumed or paid promptly after receipt of a request therefor and an itemized invoice with respect thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the holders of the Registrable Securities being registered shall pay all agency fees and commissions and underwriting discounts and commissions attributable to the sale of such Registrable Securities and the fees and disbursements of any counsel or other advisors or experts retained by such holders (severally or jointly), other than the counsel and experts specifically referred to above.
Registration Expenses
          SECTION 5. .
Reserved
          SECTION 6. .
Indemnification
          (a) . The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each of the holders of Registrable Securities included in an Exchange Registration Statement, each of the Electing Holders of Registrable Securities included in a Shelf Registration Statement and each person who participates as a placement or sales agent or as an underwriter in any offering or sale of such Registrable Securities against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such holder, agent or underwriter may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Exchange Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, under which such Registrable Securities were registered under the Securities Act, or any preliminary, final or summary prospectus contained therein or furnished by the Company to any such holder, Electing Holder, agent or underwriter, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or any Free Writing Prospectus or any "issuer information" ("") filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, or
Indemnification by the Company
Issuer Information
 
arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading, and will reimburse such holder, such Electing Holder, such agent and such underwriter for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; that the Company shall not be liable to any such person in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in such registration statement, or preliminary, final or summary prospectus, or amendment or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such person expressly for use therein.
provided, however,
          (b) . The Company may require, as a condition to including any Registrable Securities in any registration statement filed pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof and to entering into any underwriting agreement with respect thereto, that the Company shall have received an undertaking reasonably satisfactory to it from the Electing Holder of such Registrable Securities and from each underwriter named in any such underwriting agreement, severally and not jointly, to (i) indemnify and hold harmless the Company and all other holders of Registrable Securities, against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Company or such other holders of Registrable Securities may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in such registration statement, or any preliminary, final or summary prospectus contained therein or furnished by the Company to any such Electing Holder, agent or underwriter, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Electing Holder or underwriter expressly for use therein, and (ii) reimburse the Company for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; , , that no such Electing Holder shall be required to undertake liability to any person under this Section 6(b) for any amounts in excess of the dollar amount of the proceeds to be received by such Electing Holder from the sale of such Electing Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to such registration.
Indemnification by the Holders and any Agents and Underwriters
provided
however
          (c) . An indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above shall promptly notify the indemnifying party in writing of any action, claim, suit, investigation or proceeding commenced or threatened in writing against such indemnified party in respect of which indemnification may be sought by the indemnified party hereunder; provided, however, that no delay or failure on the part of the indemnified party in notifying the indemnifying party shall relieve the indemnifying party from any liability or obligation hereunder except and only to the extent any material prejudice, loss, damage, liability, settlement or expense was caused by or arose out of such delay or failure. The indemnifying party at its own expense shall be entitled, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, to
Notices of Claims, Etc
 
assume and control the defense, compromise or settlement of any such action, claim, suit, investigation or proceeding and to select counsel with respect thereto reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party in a timely manner. In such event, the indemnified party shall be entitled to participate in such defense, compromise, or settlement with its own counsel at its own expense; provided, however, that the indemnifying party shall be responsible for the reasonable fees and expenses of such separate counsel to the extent that (i) the representation of both the indemnifying party and the indemnified party by the counsel selected by the indemnifying party would, based on written advice from such counsel selected by the indemnifying party, present such counsel with a conflict of interest or (ii) the indemnified party reasonably determines that there may be legal defenses available to it which are different from or in addition to those available to the indemnifying party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnifying party shall not be responsible for the fees and expenses of more than one such separate counsel (in addition to any local counsel for all the indemnifying parties) for all of the indemnified parties in connection with any one or series of related or alternative action(s), claim(s), suit(s), investigation(s) or proceeding(s). No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
          (d) . If for any reason the indemnification provisions contemplated by Section 6(a) or Section 6(b) are unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such indemnifying party and indemnified party shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by such indemnifying party or by such indemnified party, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contributions pursuant to this Section 6(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the holders or any agents or underwriters or all of them were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 6(d). The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to above shall be deemed to include any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 6(d), no holder shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the dollar amount of the proceeds received by such holder from the sale of any Registrable Securities (after deducting any
Contribution
 
fees, discounts and commissions applicable thereto) exceeds the amount of any damages which such holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission, and no underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Registrable Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The holders' and any underwriters' obligations in this Section 6(d) to contribute shall be several in proportion to the principal amount of Registrable Securities registered or underwritten, as the case may be, by them and not joint.
          (e) The obligations of the Company under this Section 6 shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each officer, director and partner of each holder, agent and underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any holder, agent or underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act; and the obligations of the holders and any agents or underwriters contemplated by this Section 6 shall be in addition to any liability which the respective holder, agent or underwriter may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each officer and director of the Company (including any person who, with his consent, is named in any registration statement as about to become a director of the Company) and to each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act.
          SECTION 7. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, each holder of Registrable Securities hereby agrees with the Company and each other such holder that no holder of Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration may participate in any underwritten offering hereunder unless (a) the Company gives its prior written consent to such underwritten offering, (b) the managing underwriter or underwriters thereof shall be designated by Electing Holders holding at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities to be included in such offering, provided that such designated managing underwriter or underwriters is or are reasonably acceptable to the Company, (c) each holder of Registrable Securities participating in such underwritten offering agrees to sell such holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled to select the managing underwriter or underwriters hereunder and (d) each holder of Registrable Securities participating in such underwritten offering completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
Underwritten Offerings
          SECTION 8. .
Rule 144
          The Company covenants to the holders of Registrable Securities that to the extent it shall be required to do so under the Exchange Act, the Company shall timely file the reports required to be filed by it under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act (including the reports under Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act referred to in subparagraph (c)(1) of Rule 144 adopted by the Commission under the Securities Act) and the rules and regulations adopted by
 
the Commission thereunder, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitations of the exemption provided by Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar or successor rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission. Upon the request of any holder of Registrable Securities in connection with that holder's sale pursuant to Rule 144, the Company shall deliver to such holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
          SECTION 9. .
Miscellaneous
          (a) . The Company represents, warrants, covenants and agrees that it has not granted, and shall not grant, registration rights with respect to Registrable Securities or any other securities which would be inconsistent with the terms contained in this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement.
No Inconsistent Agreements
          (b) . The parties hereto acknowledge that there would be no adequate remedy at law if the Company fails to perform any of its obligations hereunder and that the Purchasers and the holders from time to time of the Registrable Securities may be irreparably harmed by any such failure, and accordingly agree that the Purchasers and such holders, in addition to any other remedy to which they may be entitled at law or in equity, shall be entitled to compel specific performance of the obligations of the Company under this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, in any court of the United States or any State thereof having jurisdiction.
Specific Performance
          (c) . All notices, requests, claims, demands, waivers and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand (if delivered personally or by courier), with machine confirmation of receipt when sent by facsimile, the next business day after being deposited with a reputable overnight express delivery service or three days after being deposited in the mail (registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested) as follows:
Notices
If to the Company, to it at
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 81 Wyman Street Waltham, MA 02454 Facsimile: 781-622-1283 Attention: Seth H. Hoogasian
with a copy to:
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP 60 State Street
 
Boston, MA 02109 Facsimile: 617-526-6000 Attention: Hal J. Leibowitz
and if to a holder, to the address of such holder set forth in the security register or other records of the Company, or to such other address as the Company or any such holder may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
          (d) . All the terms and provisions of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and the holders from time to time of the Registrable Securities and the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto and such holders; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. In the event that any transferee of any holder of Registrable Securities shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by gift, bequest, purchase, operation of law or otherwise, such transferee shall, without any further writing or action of any kind, be deemed a beneficiary hereof for all purposes and such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such transferee shall be entitled to receive the benefits of, and be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by, all of the applicable terms and provisions of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement. If the Company shall so request, any such successor, assign or transferee shall agree in writing to acquire and hold the Registrable Securities subject to all of the applicable terms hereof.
Parties in Interest
          (e) . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and each other provision set forth in this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement or made pursuant hereto shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation (or statement as to the results thereof) made by or on behalf of any holder of Registrable Securities, any director, officer or partner of such holder, any agent or underwriter or any director, officer or partner thereof, or any controlling person of any of the foregoing, and shall survive delivery of and payment for the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the transfer and registration of Registrable Securities by such holder and the consummation of an Exchange Offer.
Survival
          (f) . This Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          (g) . The descriptive headings of the several Sections and paragraphs of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement are inserted for convenience only, do not constitute a part of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement.
Headings
 
          (h) . This Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement and the other writings referred to herein (including the Indenture and the form of Securities) or delivered pursuant hereto which form a part hereof contain the entire understanding of the parties with respect to its subject matter. This Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to its subject matter. This Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement may be amended and the observance of any term of this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively) only by a written instrument duly executed by the Company and the holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities at the time outstanding. Each holder of any Registrable Securities at the time or thereafter outstanding shall be bound by any amendment or waiver effected pursuant to this Section 9(h), whether or not any notice, writing or marking indicating such amendment or waiver appears on such Registrable Securities or is delivered to such holder.
Entire Agreement; Amendments
          (i) For so long as this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement shall be in effect, this Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement and a complete list of the names and addresses of all the record holders of Registrable Securities shall be made available for inspection and copying on any business day by any holder of Registrable Securities for proper purposes only (which shall include any purpose related to the rights of the holders of Registrable Securities under the Securities, the Indenture and this Agreement) at the offices of the Company at the address thereof set forth in Section 9(c) above and at the office of the Trustee under the Indenture.
Inspection
.
          (j) . This Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement may be executed by the parties in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such respective counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return to us four original counterparts hereof, and upon the acceptance hereof by you, on behalf of each of the Purchasers, this letter and such acceptance hereof shall constitute a binding agreement among each of the Purchasers and the Company. It is understood that your acceptance of this letter on behalf of each of the Purchasers is pursuant to the authority set forth in a form of Agreement among Purchasers, the form of which shall be submitted to the Company for examination upon request, but without warranty on your part as to the authority of the signers thereof.
 
 
 
Exhibit A
The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") has identified you as a DTC Participant through which beneficial interests in $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.150% Senior Notes due 2012 and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.250% Senior Notes due 2014 (together, the "Securities") issued by Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (the "Company") are held.
The Company is in the process of registering the Securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for resale by the beneficial owners thereof. In order to have their Securities included in the registration statement, beneficial owners must complete and return the enclosed Notice of Registration Statement and Selling Securityholder Questionnaire.
as their rights to have the Securities included in the registration statement depend upon their returning the Notice and Questionnaire by . Please forward a copy of the enclosed documents to each beneficial owner that holds interests in the Securities through you. If you require more copies of the enclosed materials or have any questions pertaining to this matter, please contact: Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., 81 Wyman Street, Waltham, MA 02454 (Telephone: []).
It is important that beneficial owners of the Securities receive a copy of the enclosed materials as soon as possible
[Deadline For Response]
 - 
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement (the "Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement") among Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (the "Company") and the Purchasers named therein. Pursuant to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has filed or will file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form [] (the "Shelf Registration Statement") for the registration and resale under Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), of the Company's $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.150% Senior Notes due 2012 and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.250% Senior Notes due 2014 (together, the "Securities"). A copy of the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement is [attached hereto] [has been filed as an exhibit to the Shelf Registration Statement and can be obtained from the Commission's website at www.sec.gov]. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement.
                    
Each beneficial owner of Registrable Securities (as defined below) is entitled to have the Registrable Securities beneficially owned by it included in the Shelf Registration Statement. In order to have Registrable Securities included in the Shelf Registration Statement, this Notice of Registration Statement and Selling Securityholder Questionnaire ("Notice and Questionnaire") must be completed, executed and delivered to the Company's counsel at the address set forth herein for receipt ON OR BEFORE . Beneficial owners of Registrable Securities who do not complete, execute and return this Notice and Questionnaire by such date (i) will not be named as selling securityholders in the Shelf Registration Statement and (ii) may not use the Prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Registrable Securities.
[Deadline for Response]
Certain legal consequences arise from being named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus. Accordingly, holders and beneficial owners of Registrable Securities are advised to consult their own securities law counsel regarding the consequences of being named or not being named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus.
The term "" is defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement.
Registrable Securities
 
The undersigned holder (the "Selling Securityholder") of Registrable Securities hereby elects to include in the Shelf Registration Statement the Registrable Securities beneficially owned by it and listed below in Item (3). The undersigned, by signing and returning this Notice and Questionnaire, agrees to be bound with respect to such Registrable Securities by the terms and conditions of this Notice and Questionnaire and the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 6 of the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, as if the undersigned Selling Securityholder were an original party thereto.
Upon any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, the Selling Securityholder will be required to deliver to the Company and Trustee the Notice of Transfer set forth as Exhibit B to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement.
The Selling Securityholder hereby provides the following information to the Company and represents and warrants that such information is accurate and complete:
 
 
 
 
By signing below, the Selling Securityholder acknowledges that it understands its obligation to comply, and agrees that it will comply, with the provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, particularly Regulation M (or any successor rule or regulation).
In the event that the Selling Securityholder transfers all or any portion of the Registrable Securities listed in Item (3) above after the date on which such information is provided to the Company, the Selling Securityholder agrees to notify the transferee(s) at the time of the transfer of its rights and obligations under this Notice and Questionnaire and the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement.
By signing below, the Selling Securityholder consents to the disclosure of the information contained herein in its answers to Items (1) through (9) above and the inclusion of such
 
information in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus. The Selling Securityholder understands that such information will be relied upon by the Company in connection with the preparation of the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus.
In accordance with the Selling Securityholder's obligation under Section 3(d) of the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement to provide such information as may be required by law for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement, the Selling Securityholder agrees to promptly notify the Company of any inaccuracies or changes in the information provided herein which may occur subsequent to the date hereof at any time while the Shelf Registration Statement remains in effect and to provide such additional information that the Company may reasonably request regarding such Selling Securityholder and the intended method of distribution of Registrable Securities in order to comply with the Securities Act. Except as otherwise provided in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, all notices hereunder and pursuant to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement shall be made in writing, by hand-delivery, first-class mail, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery as follows:
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 81 Wyman Street Waltham, Massachusetts 02454 Attention: Seth H. Hoogasian Fax: 781-622-1283
Hal J. Leibowitz Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP. 60 State Street Boston, Massachusetts 02109 Fax: 617-526-5000
Once this Notice and Questionnaire is executed by the Selling Securityholder and received by the Company's counsel, the terms of this Notice and Questionnaire, and the representations and warranties contained herein, shall be binding on, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the respective successors, heirs, personal representatives, and assigns of the Company and the Selling Securityholder (with respect to the Registrable Securities beneficially owned by such Selling Securityholder and listed in Item (3) above. This Notice and Questionnaire shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of New York.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, by authority duly given, has caused this Notice and Questionnaire to be executed and delivered either in person or by its duly authorized agent.
Dated:
                    
                    
_____________________________ Selling Securityholder (Print/type full legal name of beneficial owner of Registrable Securities)
PLEASE RETURN THE COMPLETED AND EXECUTED NOTICE AND QUESTIONNAIRE FOR RECEIPT ON OR BEFORE TO THE COMPANY'S COUNSEL AT:
[DEADLINE FOR RESPONSE]
 
Exhibit B
The Bank of New York Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. c/o The Bank of New York
[Address of Trustee]
Attention: Trust Officer
Dear Sirs:
Please be advised that has transferred $ aggregate principal amount of the above-referenced Notes pursuant to an effective Registration Statement on Form [] (File No. 333-) filed by the Company.
                    
                    
                    
                    
We hereby certify that the prospectus delivery requirements, if any, of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, have been satisfied and that the above-named beneficial owner of the Notes is named as a "Selling Holder" in the Prospectus dated or in supplements thereto, and that the aggregate principal amount of the Notes transferred are the Notes listed in such Prospectus opposite such owner's name.
[date]
Dated:


