FILE:TMO/TMO-8K-20100225170032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     On February 25, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (the "Company") took the following actions relating to executive compensation:
      The Compensation Committee approved the payout of cash bonuses for 2009 to the Company's executive officers under the Company's 2008 Annual Incentive Award Plan (the "162(m) Plan"), which was approved by the stockholders of the Company at its 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Compensation Committee exercised its discretion to lower the amount of the cash bonuses payable under the 162(m) Plan based on its determinations as to the level of achievement of the applicable supplemental performance metrics and goals for 2009 under the Company's annual cash incentive program, which operates in connection with the 162(m) Plan. The amount of cash bonuses approved by the Compensation Committee to be paid to the Company's "named executive officers" (as defined by Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K) is set forth in the table below.
Annual Cash Incentive Plans  Approval of Payout of Cash Bonuses for 2009.
      The Compensation Committee established the performance goal under the 2008 Annual Incentive Award Plan for 2010 as earnings before interest, taxes and amortization, excluding the impact of restructurings, cost of revenues charges associated with acquisitions or restructurings, selling, general and administrative charges associated with acquisition transaction costs, gains/losses from the sale of a business or real estate, material asset impairment charges and other unusual or nonrecurring items ("Adjusted Operating Income"); and determined the percentage of Adjusted Operating Income that each of the Company's executive officers is entitled to receive as a cash bonus for 2010 under the Plan, subject to the Compensation Committee's right to lower, but not raise, the actual cash bonus to be paid to such executive officer for the year. The Compensation Committee's determination as to whether to lower the actual cash bonus to be paid to executive officers is generally based on the results of its determinations under the Company's annual cash incentive program for that year (which is described in the next paragraph).
Annual Cash Incentive Plans  Establishment of Criteria for 2010 Bonus.
     The Compensation Committee also established a target cash bonus amount for each of the Company's executive officers as well as supplemental performance metrics and goals for the Company under the Company's annual cash incentive program for 2010. The target amount for each of the Company's executive officers, which is a percentage of base salary (ranging from 45% to 115%), was determined by the Compensation Committee based on the salary level and position of such officer within the Company. The supplemental performance metrics and goals are based on (a) (70%) financial measures for the Company, comprised of growth in (i) revenue (adjusted for the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and for foreign currency changes) (35%) and (ii) earnings (adjusted for restructuring charges and certain other items of income or expense) before interest, taxes and amortization as a percentage of revenue (35%) and (b) (30%) non-financial measures of the Company's executive officers' contributions to the achievement of certain business objectives of the Company. For each of the financial measures, the Company's actual performance will be measured relative to the Company's internal operating plan for 2010. After giving effect to the weighting of the supplemental performance metrics and individual performance, a range of
 
performance for the financial and non-financial measures, corresponding to a multiplier of 0 to 2, will be applied to the target cash bonus amounts for the Company's officers, including its executive officers.
     . Effective April 5, 2010, the Compensation Committee increased the annual base salary of the Company's executive officers. The annual base salary approved by the Compensation Committee for each of the Company's named executive officers is set forth in the table below.
Base Salary  Approval of Increases
     . The Company's executive officers have annual target cash bonus amounts, expressed as a percentage of their annual base salaries. The percentages for certain executive officers were adjusted by the Compensation Committee. The revised target bonus percentages approved by the Compensation Committee for the Company's named executive officers are set forth in the table below.
Revised Target Bonus for 2010
 
     
Amendments to Severance Arrangements
     The Committee also approved amendments to the Company's Executive Severance Policy as it relates to the executive officers, and to the 2009 Restatement of Executive Severance Agreement between the Company and Mr. Casper, in order to comply with a recent Internal Revenue Service ruling. The Committee approved these amendments in order to preserve the tax deductibility of the Company's annual performance-bonuses to executive officers. The Committee approved an amendment to the Executive Severance Policy providing that an executive officer who is terminated during the year involuntarily without "cause" (as defined in the Executive Severance Policy) would receive a pro rata bonus for that year, based on his or her target bonus percentage for that year. That pro rata bonus would not be paid until March of the following year, when the other officer bonuses would be paid, and only if the performance goals established pursuant
 
to the Company's 2008 Annual Incentive Award Plan (or similar provision of any applicable shareholder-approved successor plan) applicable to the other officers were met. Amendment No 1 to Executive Severance Policy, dated February 25, 2010, is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1. The Committee also approved an amendment to Mr. Casper's agreement providing that, in the case of involuntary termination without "cause" or "good reason" termination of his employment (as each of those terms is defined in the 2009 Restatement of Executive Severance Agreement by and between the Company and Marc Casper), Mr. Casper would only receive his pro rata bonus for the year of termination if the performance goals established pursuant to the Company's 2008 Annual Incentive Award Plan (or similar provision of any applicable shareholder-approved successor plan) applicable to the other officers were met, and that pro rata bonus would not be paid until March of the following year, when the other officer bonuses would be paid. Amendment No. 1 to 2009 Restatement of Executive Severance Agreement by and between the Company and Marc Casper, dated February 25, 2010, is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.2.
Departure of Director
     On February 21, 2010 and February 25, 2010, Stephen P. Kaufman and Michael A. Bell, respectively, informed the Company of their decision to not stand for re-election to the Company's Board of Directors. Messrs. Kaufman and Bell's terms expire at the Company's 2010 annual meeting of stockholders.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, on this 25 day of February, 2010.
th
 

Exhibit 10.1
This AMENDMENT NO. 1 (the "Amendment") to the Executive Severance Policy dated January 1, 2009 (the "Policy") of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (the "Company") is made as of February 25, 2010. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Policy.
     WHEREAS, the Company designed the Policy to provide separation pay and benefits to certain eligible Executives of the Company whose employment is involuntarily terminated without Cause;
     WHEREAS, the Company desires to amend the Policy to reflect compliance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code");
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration for the mutual promises contained herein, the Policy is amended as follows.
     "2.4. "" means an Executive who has been designated by the Company's Board of Directors as an executive officer of the Company."
Covered Employee
     "(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive the aggregate of the following amounts:
          (A) the sum of (x) the Executive's base salary through the date of termination and (y) the amount of any accrued vacation pay, both to the extent not previously paid, to be paid in a lump sum within 30 days after the date of termination;
          (B) in the case of a Covered Employee, his or her Pro Rata Bonus. A Covered Employee's Pro Rata Bonus shall be the product of (x) the target bonus amount that would have been payable to such Covered Employee for the year (or other award period) in which the date of termination occurs had the Covered Employee remained employed through the completion of the year (or other award period) and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year (or award period) through the date of termination, and the denominator of which is 365 (or total duration of the applicable award period), to be paid no later than the date bonus amounts are paid to similarly situated Executives, provided, that a Pro Rata Bonus shall be payable only if the applicable Performance Goals established pursuant to Section V.A of the Company's 2008 Annual Incentive Award Plan (or similar provision of any applicable shareholder-approved successor plan) with respect to such bonus are achieved; and
 
          (C) the Executive's Severance Multiplier times (x) the Executive's annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to the date of termination and (y) the Executive's target bonus for the year in which termination occurs, in each case to be paid in a lump sum within 30 days after the date of termination; and"
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the parties hereto as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 10.2
This AMENDMENT NO. 1 (the "Amendment") to the 2009 Restatement of Executive Severance Agreement dated November 19, 2003 and amended on November 9, 2006, November 21, 2008 and November 21, 2009 (the "Agreement") by and between Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (the "Company") and Marc N. Casper (the "Executive") is made as of February 25, 2010. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement.
     WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive entered into the Agreement to provide separation pay and benefits to the Executive in the event the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated under certain circumstances;
     WHEREAS, the Company desires to amend the Agreement to reflect compliance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration for the mutual promises contained herein, the parties hereby agree as follows.
     "(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive the aggregate of the following amounts:
          (1) the sum of (A) the Executive's base salary through the date of termination, to be paid in a lump sum within 30 days after the date of termination, (B) the product of (x) the annual bonus paid or payable (including any bonus or portion thereof which has been earned but deferred) for the most recently completed fiscal year (or other award period) and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year (or award period) through the date of termination, and the denominator of which is 365 (or total duration of the applicable award period), to be paid no later than the date bonus amounts are paid to similarly situated Executives; provided, however, that such bonus shall be payable only if the applicable Performance Goals established pursuant to Section V.A of the Company's 2008 Annual Incentive Award Plan (or similar provision of any applicable shareholder-approved successor plan) for the fiscal year (or other award period) in which the termination occurs are achieved, and (C) the amount of any accrued vacation pay, to the extent not previously paid, to be paid in a lump sum within 30 days after the date of termination (the sum of the amounts described in clauses (A), (B), and (C) shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Accrued Obligations"); and
          (2) the sum of (A) two (2) times the Executive's annual base salary and target bonus as in effect immediately prior to the date of termination and (B) the
 
amount of any accrued vacation pay, to the extent not previously paid, in each case to be paid in a lump sum within 30 days after the date of termination; and"
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the parties hereto as of the day and year first above written.


