FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20070206184150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
February 6, 2007                                                            
    
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(212) 765-5500                                                        
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached and being furnished hereby as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (the Company) dated February 6, 2007 reporting the receipt of a tax ruling and amended financial results for the Companys fourth quarter and twelve months ended December 31, 2006.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
* Pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
, February 6, 2007... International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF) today reported that, subsequent to its January 30, 2007 earnings release and before filing its Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company received a tax ruling relating to 2006 and earlier years. As a result of the ruling, accrued tax liabilities at December 31, 2006 are reduced, the impact of which is to increase net income and earnings per share in both the fourth quarter and full year 2006 by $4 million and $.04, respectively. Fourth quarter and full year 2006 results as previously reported and amended are detailed below (dollars in millions except per share data):
New York, N.Y.
About IFF
IFF is a leading creator and manufacturer of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products  from fine fragrances and toiletries, to soaps, detergents and other household products, to beverages and food products. IFF is dedicated to The Pursuit of Excellence in every area of its business, using knowledge, creativity, innovation and technology to continually provide customers with the highest quality products and service and superior consumer understanding. IFF has sales, manufacturing and creative facilities in 30 countries worldwide. For more information, please visit our Web site at .
www.iff.com
Cautionary Statement Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Statements in this report, which are not historical facts or information, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on managements reasonable current assumptions and expectations. Certain of such forward-looking information may be identified by such terms as expect, believe, may, outlook, guidance and similar terms or variations thereof. All information concerning future revenues, tax rates or benefits, interest savings, earnings and other future financial results or financial position, constitutes forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements involve significant risks, uncertainties and other factors. Actual results of the Company may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions in the Companys markets, including economic, population health and political uncertainties; interest rates; the price, quality and availability of raw materials; the Companys ability to implement its business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability and growth targets; the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the Companys principal foreign markets and the success of the Companys hedging and risk management strategies; the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation; uncertainties related to any potential claims and rights of indemnification or other recovery for customer and consumer reaction to its earlier contamination issue; the impact of possible pension funding obligations and increased pension expense on the Companys cash flow and results of operations; and the effect of legal and regulatory proceedings, as well as restrictions imposed on the Company, its operations or its representatives by foreign governments. The Company intends its forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of such statements and does not undertake or plan to update or revise them as more information becomes available or to reflect changes in expectations, assumptions or results.
Douglas J. Wetmore Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Phone: 212-708-7145
Contact
********************
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. Selected Financial Data ()
Amounts in thousands except per share data
(Unaudited)


