FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20080731071743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
( General Instruction A.2. below):
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached and being furnished hereby as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. ("IFF" or the "Company") dated July 31, 2008 reporting IFF's financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.
Non-GAAP financial measures: To supplement the Company's financial results presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company uses, and has also included in the attached press release or as part of its web cast, certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures as disclosed by the Company may also be calculated differently from similar measures disclosed by other companies. To ease the use and understanding of our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, the Company includes the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company discloses, and management internally monitors, the sales performance of international operations on a basis that eliminates the positive or negative effects that result from translating foreign currency sales into U.S. dollars. Management uses this constant dollar measure because it believes that it enhances the assessment of the sales performance of its international operations and the comparability between reporting periods.
The Company uses a non-GAAP financial operating measure which excludes employee separation and restructuring charges in 2008, the gain on the sale of land in 2007 and the benefit of favorable tax rulings relating to prior periods, for each of the 2008 and 2007 periods. Management uses, and will use, this non-GAAP financial measure in evaluating actual performance for the reporting period in relation to historical performance, both for the Company alone and against other companies, as well as in assessing managements own performance.  The Company also discloses non-GAAP effective tax rates, which exclude the effect of the benefits of tax rulings relating to prior years for each of the 2008 and 2007 periods.  Management uses the non-GAAP effective tax rate as additional information in seeking to assess and compare our tax rates without the benefit of particular tax rulings related to prior periods.
Management believes that given the special nature of these items, including information without the impact of these items provides added information and an added financial metric, for both management and investors, to evaluate and understand the Company's operational performance and effective tax rate, as applicable, which assists management and may assist investors in evaluating the Company's period to period financial results. A material limitation of these financial measures is that such measures do not reflect actual GAAP amounts; employee separation and restructuring charges include actual cash outlays, the gain on the disposition of land includes actual cash inflows, and tax benefits reflect actual accounting and cash benefits realized. Management compensates for such limitations by clarifying that these measures are only one operating metric used for analysis and planning purposes and by providing the corresponding GAAP financial measure on its website at in the "Investor Relations" section.
www.IFF.com
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
IFF Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results
Sales Up 11%; 4% in Local Currency
Flavors Sales Up 15%; 8% in Local Currency
Fragrances Sales Up 8%; 1% in Local Currency
Double-Digit Increase in Adjusted EPS
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF), a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances for consumer products, today announced results for the second quarter 2008. On a GAAP basis, earnings per share (EPS) were $0.83 in the 2008 second quarter, versus $0.87 in the prior year quarter. Second quarter 2008 adjusted earnings per share after special items were $0.81, a 13 percent increase versus the $0.72 earned in the prior year quarter on a comparable basis.
The 2008 second quarter results included employee separation costs of $3.4 million or $0.03 per share, and a $3.9 million or $0.05 per share benefit from favorable tax rulings with respect to prior periods. The 2007 second quarter results included a pre-tax gain on a land sale of $5.3 million or $0.04 per share, as well as a $10 million or $0.11 per share benefit from favorable tax rulings with respect to prior periods.
Operating profit for the quarter was 16.0 percent of sales, including employee separation costs, compared to 17.9 percent in the prior year period.
The four percent local currency sales growth during the second quarter keeps us on track to deliver on our long-term revenue and EPS goals, said Robert M. Amen, IFFs Chairman and CEO. While North America continues to be a challenge, total Company revenue benefited from growth in the Greater Asia and Latin America regions where sales grew 20 percent or more. Our non-U.S. sales in the second quarter amounted to 75 percent of total revenue, with more than one-third coming from the world's emerging markets.
Mr. Amen continued, Our teams remain focused on creating innovative and consumer-preferred flavors and fragrances that help our customers grow their brands, especially in the emerging markets where demand for consumer goods is outpacing GDP growth.
Second quarter 2008 sales were $636 million, up 11 percent from the prior year period. Reported sales benefited from the generally weaker U.S. dollar, mainly against the Euro; at comparable exchange rates, sales would have increased 4 percent over the 2007 quarter.
Flavors Business Unit
The 15 percent growth in Flavors sales resulted from both market share gains and volume increases of existing business. Growth in Latin America was particularly strong with Flavors sales up 36 percent in the quarter. Greater Asia posted sales growth of 22 percent. Excluding the impact of currencies, Flavors sales were up 8 percent.
Fragrances Business Unit
Fragrances sales increased 8 percent on a reported basis and 1 percent excluding the impact of currencies  a significant improvement over first quarter 2008 results. Looking at total second quarter reported revenue by geographic region, Fragrances sales grew 18 percent in Greater Asia, 15 percent in Europe and 14 percent in Latin America. These gains offset an 11 percent decline in North America.
Second Quarter 2008 Overview
, as a percentage of sales, was 41.5 percent compared with 42.9 percent in the prior year quarter. This decrease was mainly the result of the decline in North America sales, which impacted absorption of manufacturing expenses, most notably in fragrance compounds. In addition, product mix and some impact of higher material costs also affected margins.
Gross profit
spending, as a percentage of sales, was 8.8 percent versus 8.5 percent in second quarter 2007, which reflects increasing investments in customer applications.
Research and development
expenses, as a percentage of sales, increased to 16.5 percent as compared to 15.9 percent in second quarter 2007. The 2008 expenses included $3.4 million of employee separation costs.
Selling and administrative
totaled $19 million as compared to $8 million in second quarter 2007, due to higher borrowings incurred in connection with the 2007 accelerated share repurchase program, which was completed in June 2008. Average cost of debt was 6.0 percent for the quarter as compared to 4.2 percent in the 2007 second quarter.
Interest expense
for second quarter 2008 was 23.2 percent compared to 19.2 percent in the prior year quarter. Both periods benefited from favorable tax rulings with respect to prior periods; excluding the benefit of these favorable rulings, the effective tax rate for second quarter 2008 and 2007 would have been 27.6 percent and 29.4 percent, respectively.
Effective tax rate
(in millions) was 80.6 compared to 90.1 in second quarter 2007.
Average number of diluted shares
About International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.
IFF is a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products and packaged goods. Consumers experience these unique scents and tastes in fine fragrances and beauty care, detergents and household goods, as well as beverages, confectionary and food products. The Company leverages its competitive advantages of brand understanding and consumer insight combined with its focus on R&D and innovation, to provide customers with differentiated product offerings. A member of the S&P 500 Index, IFF has sales, manufacturing and creative facilities in 31 countries worldwide. For more information, please visit our Web site at
www.iff.com
.
Individuals interested in receiving future updates on IFF via e-mail can register at .
http://ir.iff.biz
Audio Web Cast
An audio Web cast, to discuss the Companys second quarter 2008 financial results and outlook, will be held Thursday, July 31 at 9:00 a.m. ET. Interested parties can access the Web cast, accompanying slide presentation, press release, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) reconciliation and Form 10-Q on the Companys Web site at , under the Investor Relations section. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available on the Companys Web site approximately one hour after the event and will remain available on the IFF Web site until August 14, 2008.
www.iff.com
Cautionary Statement Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Statements in this quarterly release, which are not historical facts or information, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's current assumptions, estimates and expectations. Certain of such forward-looking information may be identified by such terms as expect, believe, outlook, guidance, may, and similar terms or variations thereof. All information concerning future revenues, tax rates or benefits, interest savings, earnings and other future financial results or financial position, constitutes forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements involve significant risks, uncertainties and other factors. Actual results of the Company may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions in the Company's markets, including economic, inflationary and recessionary pressures, high energy and commodity prices, decline of the U.S. dollar, population health and political uncertainties; interest rates; the price, quality and availability of raw materials; the Companys ability to implement its business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability and growth targets; the impact on cash and the impact of increased borrowings related to the July 2007 share repurchase program; the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the Companys principal foreign markets and the success of the Companys hedging and risk management strategies; the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation; the impact of possible pension funding obligations and increased pension expense on the Companys cash flow and results of operations; and the effect of legal and regulatory proceedings, as well as restrictions imposed on the Company, its operations or its representatives by U.S. and foreign governments. The Company intends its forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of such statements and does not undertake or plan to update or revise them as more information becomes available or to reflect changes in expectations, assumptions or results.
Any public statements or disclosures by IFF following this report that modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this report will be deemed to modify or supersede such outlook or other forward-looking statements in or accompanying this report.
CONTACT: International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. Investors: Yvette Rudich, 212-708-7164 Director of Corporate Communications or Media: Melissa Sachs, 212-708-7278 Manager, Corporate Communications


