FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20080501060314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Attached and being furnished hereby as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. ("IFF" or the "Company") dated May 1, 2008 reporting IFF's financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.
 
Non-GAAP financial measures: To supplement the Company's financial results presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company uses, and has also included in the attached press release or as part of its web cast, certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures as disclosed by the Company may also be calculated differently from similar measures disclosed by other companies. To ease the use and understanding of our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, the Company includes the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
The Company discloses, and management internally monitors, the sales performance of international operations on a basis that eliminates the positive or negative effects that result from translating foreign currency sales into U.S. dollars. Management uses this constant dollar measure because it believes that it enhances the assessment of the sales performance of its international operations and the comparability between reporting periods.
 
The Company uses a non-GAAP financial operating measure which excludes a restructuring charge. The Company also uses a non-GAAP financial measure which excludes the benefits of tax rulings relating to prior years. Management believes that given the unique nature of these items, including information without the impact of these items may be more representative of the Company's core operational performance and effective tax rate, as applicable, and may assist investors in evaluating the Company's period to period financial results in a manner consistent with how management evaluates such results. A material limitation of these financial measures is that such measures do not reflect actual GAAP amounts, a restructuring charge includes actual cash outlays, and tax benefits reflect an actual accounting and cash benefit realized. Management compensates for such limitations by clarifying that these measures are only one operating metric used for analysis and planning purposes and by providing the corresponding GAAP financial measureon IFFs website at in the "Investor Relations" section.
 
www.IFF.com
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.
 
 
 
 
May 1, 2008 - International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF), a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances for consumer products, today announced sales of $597 million, a 5 percent increase from first quarter 2007.  Reported sales benefited from the weaker U.S. dollar, mainly against the Euro.  At comparable exchange rates, sales would have increased 1 percent compared to the prior year period.
New York, NY
Earnings per share as reported were $.69 in both the first quarter of 2008 and 2007.  The 2008 first quarter results include pre-tax restructuring charges of $6.2 million or $.06 per share related to employee separation costs due to the elimination of approximately 125 positions in support functions.  Excluding these charges, earnings per share would have been $.75, a 9 percent increase over the same period last year.
Operating profit for the quarter was 16.0 percent of sales, including the pre-tax restructuring charges of $6.2 million, compared to 16.8 percent in the prior year period.
We are very pleased with the continued strength of our Flavors business, which has delivered market share growth for seven consecutive quarters, commented Robert M. Amen, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  Our Fragrance business results were mixed.  Functional Fragrance sales were strong in Asia and Europe, although this performance was offset by weakness in Global Fine Fragrance and North America Functional Fragrance sales.
Despite the challenging U.S. economic environment, which we anticipate will continue for some time, we remain confident about our growth prospectsparticularly in the emerging marketsand our ability to deliver on our financial goals.
 
Flavors Business Unit
 
Flavor sales increased 12 percent over first quarter 2007 due to market share gains from new wins and volume growth of existing business.  Growth was especially strong in Latin America and Asia.  Excluding the impact of currencies, sales growth for Flavors was up 8 percent.
 
Fragrance Business Unit
 
In comparison to first quarter 2007, Fragrance sales were flat, primarily because strong growth in the Greater Asia and European regions was offset by weak demand for fragrances in North America.
 
 
Fragrance Ingredient sales were 6 percent lower due to weaker demand in North America and Europe and a planned shift in product mix to enable gross margin improvement.
 
 
First Quarter 2008 Overview
 
        Gross profit, as a percentage of sales, was 41.1 percent compared with 41.8 percent in the prior year quarter. This decrease was mainly the result of the decline in North America sales, which impacted absorption of manufacturing expenses, most notably in fragrance compounds.  Product mix, mainly lower sales of fine and beauty care compounds, and some impact of higher material costs also effected margins; the average cost of raw materials increased 4 percent over the prior year quarter.
 
        Research and Development spending, as a percentage of sales, was 8.7 percent, higher than the 8.2 percent in the first quarter 2007, and equal to the rate of spend for the full year 2007.
 
        Selling and Administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, declined to 15.1 percent as compared to 16.1 percent in the first quarter of 2007.  The 2008 expenses included the benefit of a $2.6 million insurance recovery related to a 2005 product contamination matter.
 
        Interest expense totaled $18 million as compared to $8 million in 2007, due to higher borrowings incurred in connection with the 2007 accelerated share repurchase program.  Average cost of debt was 5.9 percent for 2008 compared to 4.1 percent in 2007.
 
        The Companys first quarter effective tax rate was 25.4 percent compared to 28.0 percent in the prior year quarter. The 2008 first quarter benefited from favorable tax rulings with respect to prior periods; excluding the benefit of these favorable rulings, the effective tax rate for the first quarter would have been 28.2 percent.
 
        Average number of diluted shares (in thousands) was 81,253 compared to 90,658 in the prior year quarter.
About International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.
 
IFF is a leading creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products and packaged goods.  Consumers experience these unique scents and tastes in fine fragrances and beauty care, detergents and household goods, as well as beverages, confectionary and food products.   The Company leverages its competitive advantages of brand understanding and consumer insight combined with its focus on R&D and innovation, to provide customers with differentiated product offerings.  A member of the S&P 500 Index, IFF has sales, manufacturing and creative facilities in 31 countries worldwide. For more information, please visit our Web site at
www.iff.com
.
Individuals interested in receiving future updates on IFF via e-mail can register at .
http://ir.iff.biz
 
Audio Web Cast
 
An audio Web cast, to discuss the Companys first quarter 2008 financial results and outlook, will be held today at 9:00 a.m. ET.  Interested parties can access the Web cast, accompanying slide presentation, press release, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) reconciliation and Form 10-Q on the Companys Web site at , under the Investor Relations section.  For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available on the Companys Web site
www.iff.com
approximately one hour after the event and will remain available on the IFF Web site until May 15, 2008.
 
2
 
Cautionary Statement Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
Statements in this quarterly release, which are not historical facts or information, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's current assumptions, estimates and expectations. Certain of such forward-looking information may be identified by such terms as "expect," "believe," "outlook," "guidance," "may," and similar terms or variations thereof.  All information concerning future revenues, tax rates or benefits, interest savings, earnings and other future financial results or financial position, constitutes forward-looking information.  Such forward-looking statements involve significant risks, uncertainties and other factors.  Actual results of the Company may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions in the Company's markets, including economic, inflationary and recessionary pressures, high energy and commodity price, decline of the U.S. dollar, population health and political uncertainties; interest rates; the price, quality and availability of raw materials; the Company's ability to implement its business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability and growth targets; the impact on cash and the impact of increased borrowings related to the July 2007 share repurchase program; the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the Company's principal foreign markets and the success of the Company's hedging and risk management strategies; the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation; the impact of possible pension funding obligations and increased pension expense on the Company's cash flow and results of operations; and the effect of legal and regulatory proceedings, as well as restrictions imposed on the Company, its operations or its representatives by U.S. and foreign governments.  The Company intends its forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of such statements and does not undertake or plan to update or revise them as more information becomes available or to reflect changes in expectations, assumptions or results.
Any public statements or disclosures by IFF following this report that modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this report will be deemed to modify or supersede such outlook or other forward-looking statements in or accompanying this report.
Investor Contact:  Yvette Rudich
Director of Corporate Communications
212-708-7164
Media Contact:  Melissa Sachs
Manager, Corporate Communications
212-708-7278
 
3
 
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.
Consolidated Income Statement
(Amounts in thousands except per share data)
 
(Unaudited)
 
4
 
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.
 
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet
 
(Amounts in Thousands)
 
(Unaudited)
 
 
5
 
 
 
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.
 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
(Amounts in thousands)
 
(Unaudited)
 
 
6
 
 
International Flavors & Fragrances
 
Q1 2008 Segment Profit
 
(Amounts in Thousands)
 
(Unaudited)
 
 
 7


