FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20100430162639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
           Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act 
o
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)
 
      
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The shareholders of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (the Company) approved the Companys 2010 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the 2010 Plan) at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 27, 2010.  The 2010 Plan was approved by the Companys Board of Directors (the Board) on February 2, 2010, subject to shareholder approval.  The 2010 Plan replaces the Companys 2000 Stock Award and Incentive Plan and the 2000 Supplemental Stock Award Plan (the 2000 Plans) and will provide the source for future deferrals of cash into deferred stock under the Companys Deferred Compensation Plan (with the Deferred Compensation Plan being deemed a subplan under the 2010 Plan for the sole purpo se of funding deferrals under the IFF Share Fund).
Executive officers and other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries, and non-employee directors, consultants and others who provide substantial services to the Company, are eligible to be granted awards under the 2010 Plan.  In addition, any person who has been offered employment by the Company may be granted awards, but such prospective grantee may not receive any payment or exercise any right relating to the award until he or she has commenced employment or the providing of services.  Two million shares are reserved for delivery to participants under the 2010 Plan, plus shares remaining available for new grants under the 2000 Stock Award and Incentive Plan and shares recaptured from outstanding awards under the 2000 Plans.  The 2010 Plan authorizes a broad range of awards, including: incentive and n on-qualified stock options; stock appreciation rights (SARs); restricted stock; deferred stock (including restricted stock units); other awards based on Company common stock; dividend equivalents; performance shares or other stock-based performance awards; cash-based performance awards tied to achievement of specific performance objectives; and shares issuable in lieu of rights to cash compensation.
The Compensation Committee of the Board will administer the 2010 Plan, although the Board may itself act to administer the 2010 Plan and awards to non-employee directors will be approved under a policy approved by the Compensation Committee and Board.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the 2010 Plan, the Compensation Committee is authorized to select participants, determine the type and number of awards to be granted and the number of shares to which awards will relate or the amount of a performance award, specify times at which awards will be exercisable or settled, including performance conditions that may be required as a condition thereof, set other terms and conditions of such awards, prescribe forms of award agreements, interpret and specify rules and regulations relating to the 2010 Plan, and make all other determin ations which may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the 2010 Plan.  In addition, under the 2010 Plan, in the event of a change in control of the Company (as defined in the 2010 Plan), outstanding awards will immediately vest and be fully exercisable, any restrictions, deferral of settlement and forfeiture conditions of such awards will lapse, and goals relating to performance-based awards will be deemed met or exceeded to the extent specified in the performance-award documents.  However, the Compensation Committee can specify different provisions applicable to a change in control in a participants award agreement.  The Board may amend, suspend, discontinue, or terminate the 2010 Plan or the Committees authority to grant awards thereunder without shareholder approval, except as required by law, regulation or the rules of the NYSE.  However, the 2010 Plan includes a restriction providing that, without shareholder approval, the Company will not amend or replace options or SARs previously granted under the 2010 Plan in a transaction that constitutes a repricing (as defined in the 2010 Plan).  Unless earlier terminated, the authority of the Compensation Committee to make grants under the 2010 Plan will terminate ten years after the latest shareholder approval of the 2010 Plan, and the 2010 Plan will terminate when no shares remain available and the Company has no further obligation with respect to any outstanding award.
 
 
 
 
 
A description of other terms and conditions of the 2010 Plan appears under the heading Item 3Approval of 2010 Stock Award and Incentive Plan in the Companys definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 9, 2010 (the Proxy Statement).  Such description and the other information relating to the 2010 Plan included herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the actual terms of the 2010 Plan, which was filed as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 27, 2010.  At the Annual Meeting, (i) 11 persons were elected to serve as directors of the Company; (ii) the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for 2010 was ratified; and (iii) the Companys 2010 Stock Award and Incentive Plan was approved.  Each of these proposals is described in detail in the Companys Proxy Statement.  The final results for the votes regarding each proposal are set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference is a description of common stock of the Company.  As permitted by the SEC, this description is being provided for purposes of SEC forms which require the incorporation by reference of a description of securities contained in a registration statement filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
As of April 30, 2010, the authorized common stock of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. consists of Five Hundred Million (500,000,000) shares, each with a par value of $.12-1/2 per share (Common Stock).  The Common Stock is currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IFF.
 
Holders of Common Stock are entitled to receive such dividends as the Companys Board of Directors (the Board) may from time to time declare out of funds legally available therefore under the laws of the State of New York, in amounts that the Board may determine in its sole discretion.  Covenants and other restrictions in loan agreements entered into by the Company from time to time may restrict our ability to pay dividends without lender consent.
Holders of Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share on the election of directors and all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders.  There is no cumulative voting.  With respect to the election of directors, at each meeting of stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, except in the case of a contested election, the vote required for election of a director will be the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against the election of a nominee. In a contested election, the persons receiving a plurality of the votes cast at the meeting will be elected as directors. An election will be deemed to be contested if, as of the record date for the stockholder meeting in question, there are more nominees for election than positions on the Board to be filled by elect ion at the meeting.  For all other matters put to a vote of stockholders, assuming a quorum is present, the vote of the holders of a majority of the votes cast will decide any question brought before such meeting, except as otherwise expressly provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws or the laws of the State of New York.
Except as may otherwise be determined by a two-thirds vote of the Board, holders of Common Stock may be entitled to purchase any new or additional issue of any equity or voting shares of the Company or of any security convertible into equity or voting shares, if and to the extent required by the laws of the State of New York and applicable provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation.  Such rights do not apply to shares issued upon the exercise of stock options.
On liquidation, dissolution or winding up, holders of Common Stock are entitled to share ratably in the assets available for distribution to holders of Common Stock, as determined by applicable law.
Under the Certificate of Incorporation, except as otherwise provided by the laws of the State of New York, the Board is authorized, without the approval of the stockholders, to authorize and issue obligations of the Company and to determine the associated rights as to redeemability, convertibility or otherwise in its sole discretion.
Certain provisions of the law of the State of New York may place restrictions on Company stockholders based on their ownership of a substantial amount of the Companys outstanding shares of Common Stock or otherwise have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company.  As a general matter, New York law places restrictions on the ability of the Company to engage in a business combination with a beneficial holder of twenty percent or more of the Companys outstanding Common Stock unless the approval of the Board or disinterested shareholders is timely obtained or other specified conditions are met.
The transfer agent and registrar for the Common Stock is American Stock Transfer & Trust Company.
 
 


