FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20100217064032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
           Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
As previously reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on September 14, 2009 (the September 14, 2009 Form 8-K), Douglas D. Tough was appointed to assume the position of non-executive Chairman of the Board effective October 1, 2009 and was appointed to assume the position of Chief Executive Officer when his contract with his previous employer expired.  On February 17, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that Mr. Tough will assume the position of executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer effective March 1, 2010.  Mr. Toughs compensation and other arrangements entered into in connection with his appointment were previously reported in the September 14, 2009 Form 8-K.  
Kevin Berryman, Nicolas Mirzayantz and Hernan Vaisman will continue to serve as members of the temporary Office of the CEO through February 28, 2010, at which point this temporary office will be disbanded and these executives will return to serving solely in their roles as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Group President, Fragrances and Group President, Flavors, respectively.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
In connection with the matters disclosed under Item 5.02, a copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
International Flavors and Fragrances, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Doug Tough to Assume Role as
IFF Chairman & CEO Effective March 1, 2010
 International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF), a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances for consumer products, today announced that current Non-Executive Chairman, Douglas D. Tough, will assume the role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer effective March 1, 2010.
NEW YORK, N.Y., February 17, 2010
As I begin my journey as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of International Flavors & Fragrances, I am excited to lead our organization into the next decade and leverage the enormous opportunities that exist for such a dynamic Company, said Doug Tough.  Throughout its long history, IFFs strong credentials across a range of critical factors have provided the company with a winning heritage.  Going forward, I will look to work with the talented team to create an even brighter future for IFF and all its constituents.
Doug Tough continued, I am extremely grateful to the senior leadership team as well as all our employees for their focus during the recent transition period.  In a challenging economic environment, they were able to make fundamental enhancements that drove improved performance over the second half of 2009.  I am also grateful to my colleagues on the IFF Board for their support and counsel.  I look forward to leading this outstanding team through the next phase of IFFs growth.
Doug Tough, a proven consumer products executive, joined the Board of IFF in October 2008. He has been CEO of Australia-based Ansell Limited for nearly six years.  Prior to Ansell, he had a 17-year career with Cadbury Schweppes Plc where he held a variety of senior positions overseeing consumer products divisions both in the U.S. and abroad.
 
About IFF
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF), is a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products and packaged goods.  Consumers experience these unique scents and tastes in fine fragrances and beauty care, detergents and household goods, as well as beverages, confectionery and food products.  The Company leverages its competitive advantages of brand understanding and consumer insight combined with its focus on R&D and innovation, to provide customers with differentiated product offerings.  A member of the S&P 500 Index, IFF has sales, manufacturing and creative facilities in 32 countries worldwide. For more information, please visit our website at www.iff.com.
Investor & Media Relations Contact:
International Flavors & Fragrances
Michael DeVeau
212-708-7164
###
 


