FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20101104071241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
( General Instruction A.2. below):
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached and being furnished hereby as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. ("IFF" or the "Company") dated November 4, 2010 reporting IFF's financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010.
An audio webcast, to discuss the Company's third quarter financial results and outlook, will be held today, November 4, 2010, at 10:00 a.m. EST.  Interested parties can access the webcast and accompanying slide presentation on the Company's website at www.iff.com, under the Investor Relations section. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available on the Company's website approximately one hour after the event and will remain available on the IFF website for one year from the date of broadcast.
Non-GAAP financial measures: To supplement the Company's financial results presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company uses, and has also included in the attached press release or as part of its webcast, certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures as disclosed by the Company may also be calculated differently from similar measures disclosed by other companies. To ease the use and understanding of our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, the Company includes a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the attached press release.
For example, the Company discloses, and management internally monitors, the sales performance of international operations on a basis that eliminates the positive or negative effects that result from translating foreign currency sales into U.S. dollars. Management uses this constant dollar measure because management believes that it enhances the assessment of the sales performance of the Companys international operations and the comparability between reporting periods.
The Company uses certain non-GAAP financial operating measures which exclude in 2010, restructuring charges related to the Fragrance European facilities rationalization and in 2009, employee separation costs, including one-time costs associated with the change in the CEO position, and restructuring charges related to costs associated with the Companys European Fragrance rationalization plan. Management uses, and will use these non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating actual performance for the reporting period in relation to historical performance, both for the Company alone and against other companies, as well as in assessing managements own performance.  The Company also calculates EBITDA amounts (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) as an additional indicator of its financial performance and as a benchmark versus certain debt covenants.  The Company discloses free cash flow because the Company believes it is a measurement of cash flow that may be available for investing and financing activities. We define free cash flow as net cash provided from operations less capital expenditures and cash dividends.  The Company also discloses, from time to time, non-GAAP effective tax rates, which exclude the effect of the benefits of tax rulings relating to prior periods, as additional information in seeking to assess and compare our tax rates without the benefit of those tax rulings.
Management believes that, given the special nature of the above items, the inclusion of information without the impact of these items provides added information and an added financial metric, for both management and investors to evaluate and understand the Company's operational performance and effective tax rate, as applicable, and assists management and may assist investors in evaluating the Company's period to period financial results. A material limitation of these financial measures is that such measures do not reflect actual GAAP amounts; restructuring charges and employee separation costs include actual cash outlays; In addition, the calculation of free cash flow does not reflect the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since non-discretionary items such as debt repayments are not deducted in determining such measure and as such, should not be considered a substitute for cash provided by operating activities or other cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP measures we use, as we define then, may differ from similarly named measures used by other entities.  Management compensates for such limitations by clarifying that these measures are only one operating metric used for analysis and planning purposes and by providing the corresponding GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financials measures on IFFs website at www.iff.com under the Investor Relations section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., dated November 4, 2010.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
IFF Reports Third Quarter 2010 Results
Local Currency Sales Up 13%, Reported Sales Increased 10%
Adjusted Operating Margin 18.3%, Reported Operating Margin 17.9%
Adjusted EPS Increased 20%, Reported EPS Up 44%
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 4, 2010--International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF), a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances for consumer products, today reported third quarter 2010 revenue of $673 million, 10 percent higher than the prior year quarter. Revenue in local currency increased 13 percent as foreign currency had a three percentage point impact on results. Reported earnings per share (EPS) were $0.95, compared to $0.66 for the third quarter 2009. EPS in 2010 included a $0.03 per share expense related to ongoing restructuring efforts in Europe, while third quarter 2009 included a $0.16 per share expense relating to restructuring and employee separation costs. Excluding these items, adjusted EPS for the third quarter increased 20 percent to $0.98 versus $0.82 in the prior year quarter.
Our third quarter performance marks the continuation of excellent results, said IFF Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Doug Tough. All categories performed at or above expectations, as both Flavor and Fragrance results were once again supported by strong new win performance. This outstanding top-line performance combined with our continued focus on cost discipline enabled us to deliver a margin profile that has not been achieved in over five years.
Mr. Tough continued, As we look towards the balance of the year, we expect local currency sales in the fourth quarter to remain strong, albeit approaching more normalized levels. We believe that our teams continued ability to win new business will be a critical driver of results going forward as it appears that the benefits of restocking are subsiding. We expect that this performance will support our efforts to drive market share improvements while also creating long-term value for our shareholders.
Flavor Business Unit
Local currency sales in the third quarter increased 10 percent over the comparable 2009 period as all regions reported strong results. For the third consecutive quarter, an accelerated level of demand from existing accounts and new business wins led to double-digit growth in Europe, Africa, Middle East (EAME) and Greater Asia. Performance in North America continued to benefit from double-digit performances in both Confectionery and Beverage; while Latin America experienced strong double-digit growth in Confectionery, Savory and Dairy.
Reported operating profit increased 15 percent year-over-year, or $8 million, to $63 million in the third quarter. This increase was driven by accelerated sales growth, improving input costs and our continued margin improvement initiatives. Operating profit margin in the quarter improved 100 bps to 21.0 percent versus 20.0 percent in the prior year period.
Fragrance Business Unit
Local currency sales in the third quarter increased 15 percent over the prior year period as all regions reported double-digit growth. New business wins and increased volumes once again drove double-digit growth in Fine Fragrance. In Beauty Care, the strong trends in Hair Care and Toiletries continued, as each category grew at a double-digit rate. Functional Fragrance results were solid, as a double-digit performance in Home Care more than offset challenging year-over-year comparison from the prior year period. In Fragrance Ingredients, local currency sales increased 18 percent as continued improvements in underlying demand aided results.
Operating profit increased by $22 million to $69 million in the third quarter, including a $2 million charge related to ongoing restructuring efforts in Europe as compared to $11 million related to restructuring costs in the prior year period. Excluding these items, adjusted operating profit grew 23 percent, or $13 million to $71 million. As a result, adjusted operating profit margin for the quarter increased 190 bps to 19.0 percent, driven by strong new win performance, favorable input costs and benefits from ongoing profit improvement initiatives.
Sales performance by region and product category follows:
Third Quarter 2010 Highlights
Gross profit, as a percentage of sales, was 42.3 percent compared with 40.6 percent in the prior year period. This improvement was mainly attributable to increased sales and moderating input costs.
Research, Selling and Administrative (RSA) expense, as a percentage of sales, decreased 50 bps to 24.1 percent reflecting strong operating leverage and lower costs versus the year-ago period. Excluding the impact relating to the change in CEO position in the prior year period, adjusted RSA, as a percentage of sales, increased 40 bps driven by additional incentive compensation accruals plus higher spending to support growth. Within RSA, R&D expense as a percentage of sales decreased 20 bps to 7.9 percent, although absolute levels increased approximately $4 million versus the year-ago period.
Operating profit increased $33 million to $121 million, including a $2 million expense related to ongoing restructuring efforts in Europe as compared to $16 million related to restructuring and employee separation costs in the prior year period. Excluding these items, adjusted operating profit grew 18 percent, or $19 million, to $123 million. Adjusted operating profit margin increased to 18.3 percent, a 140 bps improvement versus the year-ago period.
Interest expense in the quarter declined $1 million year-over-year reflecting lower levels of outstanding debt.
The effective tax rate in the quarter was 27.4 percent compared to 28.9 percent in the comparable period last year. The year-over-year decrease reflects the mix of earnings across the countries in which the company operates.
Cash flow from operations improved by $8 million to $208 million for the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. This improvement was led by the strong profit performance and a continued focus to drive working capital efficiency.
About IFF
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF), is a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products and packaged goods. Consumers experience these unique scents and tastes in fine fragrances and beauty care, detergents and household goods, as well as beverages, confectionery and food products. The Company leverages its competitive advantages of brand understanding and consumer insight, combined with its focus on R&D and innovation, to provide customers with differentiated product offerings. A member of the S&P 500 Index, IFF has sales, manufacturing and creative facilities in 32 countries worldwide. For more information, please visit our website at .
www.iff.com
Audio Webcast
An audio webcast to discuss the Company's third quarter 2010 financial results and outlook will be held today at 10:00 a.m. EST November 4, 2010. Interested parties can access the webcast and accompanying slide presentation on the Company's website at www.iff.com under the Investor Relations section. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available on the Company's website approximately one hour after the event and will remain available on the IFF website for one year from the date of broadcast.
Cautionary Statement Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Statements in this quarterly release, which are not historical facts or information, are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements are based on managements current assumptions, estimates and expectations. Certain of such forward-looking information may be identified by such terms as expect, anticipate, believe, outlook, guidance, may and similar terms or variations thereof. All information concerning future revenues, tax rates or benefits, interest and other savings, earnings and other future financial results or financial position such as our ability to satisfy our cash requirements, constitutes forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements involve significant risks, uncertainties and other factors. Actual results of the Company may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among othersthe following: general economic and business conditions in the Companys markets, including economic and recessionary pressures; energy and commodity prices; decline in consumer confidence and spending; the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the Companys principal foreign markets and the impact on the availability, effectiveness and cost of the Companys hedging and risk management strategies; political uncertainties; fluctuating interest rates; volatility of the capital and credit markets and any adverse impact on our cost of and access to capital and credit; fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of raw materials; the Companys ability to implement its business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability and growth targets; the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation; the impact of possible pension funding obligations and increased pension expense on the Companys cash flow and results of operations; and the effect of legal and regulatory proceedings, as well as restrictions imposed on the Company, its operations or its representatives by U.S. and foreign governments. The Company intends its forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of such statements and does not undertake or plan to update or revise them as more information becomes available or to reflect changes in expectations, assumptions or results.
Any public statements or disclosures by IFF following this report that modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this report will be deemed to modify or supersede such outlook or other forward-looking statements in or accompanying this report.
Certain other factors which may impact our financial results or which may cause actual results to differ from such forward-looking statements are also discussed in the Companys periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the IFF website at under Investor Relations. You are urged to carefully consider all such factors.
www.iff.com
(1) Includes the following reclassifications and revision for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 to conform to the current year presentation: Cost of goods sold $0.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively; Research and Development (R&D) $(1.8) million and $(5.6) million, respectively; Selling and Administrative $1.7 million and $5.2 million, respectively. The adjustments to R&D above for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 include $(1.0) million and $(4.7) million, respectively, related to the revision of excess foreign R&D credits from income tax expense.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior years operating activities to conform to the 2010 presentation.
(1) Includes $(1.0) million for the three months and $(4.7) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 related to the revision of excess foreign R&D credits from income tax expense to conform to current year presentation.
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.
Reconciliation of Income
(Amounts in thousands)
(Unaudited)
The following information and schedule provides reconciliation information between reported GAAP amounts and certain adjusted amounts. This information and schedule is not intended as, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for reported GAAP amounts or financial statements of the Company prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
CONTACT: International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. Michael DeVeau, 212-708-7164


