FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20111215093539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b)
On December 13, 2011, Beth E. Ford advised International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. that she would be resigning from her position as Executive Vice President, Supply Chain effective as of January 11, 2012.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 15, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF), a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances for consumer products, today announced that Beth E. Ford, Executive Vice President and Head of Supply Chain, has notified the company that she will be stepping down on January 11, 2012 to take a senior leadership role outside the organization. The company is proactively reviewing candidates and expects to name a successor in the near future.
NEW YORK, N.Y., December 15, 2011
"Beth has been instrumental in our efforts to optimize our integrated supply chain" said Doug Tough, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Her deep operational experience and business knowledge have been great assets to our company, and we wish Beth much success in her new role."
About IFF
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF) is a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products. Consumers experience these unique scents and tastes in fine fragrances and beauty care, detergents and household goods, as well as beverages, confectionery and food products. The Company leverages its competitive advantages of consumer insight, research and development, creative expertise, and customer intimacy to provide customers with innovative and differentiated product offerings. A member of the S&P 500 Index, IFF has more than 5,500 employees working in 33 countries worldwide. For more information, please visit our website at www.iff.com.
Investor Relations:
Michael DeVeau
212-708-7164


