FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20110506115610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 3, 2011, Peter A. Georgescu retired from the Board of Directors of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (the "Company").
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 3, 2011. At the Annual Meeting, (i) twelve members were elected to serve as directors of the Company; (ii) the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011 was ratified; (iii) the compensation of the Company's named executive officers was approved in an advisory vote; and (iv) the Company's shareholders voted, in an advisory vote, as set forth below as to the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation. Each of these proposals is described in detail in the Company's Proxy Statement. The final results for the votes regarding each proposal are set forth below.
The directors elected to the Company's Board for terms expiring at the Annual Meeting in the year 2012, as well as the number of votes cast for, votes cast against, votes abstained and broker non-votes with respect to each of these individuals are set forth below:
The proposal to ratify the Audit Committee's selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent accountants for 2011 received the following votes:
 
The advisory proposal to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, as disclosed in the Company's Proxy Statement, including the "Compensation Discussion and Analysis", the compensation tables and related narrative disclosure, received the following votes:
The advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation received the following votes:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


