FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20111116172129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 9, 2011, International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (the ""), IFF Latin American Holdings (Espaa) S.L., a subsidiary of the Company (""), and certain of the Company's other subsidiaries (together with IFF Spain, the "," together with the Company, each a "," and collectively the "") entered into a credit agreement (the "") with Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent and the other lenders, agents, arrangers and bookrunners named therein.
Company
IFF Spain
Subsidiaries
Borrower
Borrowers
Credit Agreement
The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount up to an equivalent of $950 million (the ""). There are three tranches under the Facility. The Tranche A facility is available to all of the Borrowers other than IFF Spain in U.S. dollars, euros, Swiss francs, Japanese yen and British sterling in an aggregate amount up to an equivalent of $458 million and contains sublimits of $25 million for letters of credit and $50 million for swing line borrowings. The Tranche B facility is available to all of the Borrowers in euros, Swiss francs, Japanese yen and British sterling in an aggregate amount up to an equivalent of $354 million and contains sublimits of 25 million for letters of credit and 50 million for swing line borrowings. The Tranche C facility is available to all of the Borrowers in euros only in an aggregate amount up to 100,505,400. The Facility will be available for general corporate purposes of each Borrower and its subsidiaries. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured and the Company has guaranteed the obligations of each other Borrower under the Credit Agreement. The Facility will mature on November 9, 2016, but may be extended for up to two additional one-year periods at the Company's request, subject to the agreement of the lenders having commitments representing more than 50% of the aggregate commitments of all lenders under the Credit Agreement.
Facility
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest, at the Company's option, at a rate equal to either the base rate in effect from time to time as described in the Credit Agreement or LIBOR, in each case plus the applicable margin. The borrowings under the Credit Agreement are available in the currencies set forth in the preceding paragraph but the base rate interest option is only available for borrowings denominated in U.S. dollars. The applicable margin for borrowings under the Credit Agreement may change depending on the Company's public debt rating. The Company will pay quarterly in arrears a commitment fee to each lender at a rate per annum equal to an applicable percentage in effect from time to time of (i) the aggregate amount of each lender's unused commitment plus (ii) its ratable share of the average daily outstanding swing line borrowings under the applicable tranche facility. The applicable percentage used to determine the commitment fee described in the preceding sentence is based on the Company's public debt rating as described in the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, events of default and covenants, including, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, covenants that restrict the ability of the Borrowers and/or certain of their subsidiaries to incur certain additional indebtedness, create or permit liens on assets and engage in mergers or consolidations. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a covenant requiring the Company to maintain, at the end of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of net debt for borrowed money to consolidated EBITDA in respect of the previous 12-month period of not more than 3.25 to 1.
 
If there is an event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders would be permitted to terminate their commitments and accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness under the Credit Agreement.
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by the copy thereof which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 10, 2011, the Company terminated its existing Multicurrency Revolving Facility Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2005 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the "") by and among the Company, certain other borrowers party thereto, the lenders, the agents and arrangers party thereto and Citibank International plc, as agent for the lenders, and repaid all amounts that were outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement.
Existing Credit Agreement
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above with respect to the Credit Agreement is incorporated by reference in this Item 2.03 in its entirety.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
          INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES INC., a New York corporation (the ""), INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES (LUXEMBOURG) S..r.l., a private limited liability company () incorporated in Luxembourg and registered with the Register of Commerce and Companies of Luxembourg under number B 79234 and having its registered address at 6 rue de Mamer, L-8081 Bertrange, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, with a share capital of EUR 163,360,000 (""), INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES (NEDERLAND) HOLDING B.V., a private limited liability company incorporated in the Netherlands (""), INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES I.F.F. (NEDERLAND) B.V., a private limited liability company incorporated in the Netherlands (""), IFF LATIN AMERICAN HOLDINGS (ESPAA) S.L., a Spanish Limited Liability Company (""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the "") and issuers of letters of credit ("") listed on Schedule I hereto, and CITIBANK, N.A. (""), as administrative agent (the "") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows:
Company
socit  responsabilit limite
IFF Lux
NL Holding
IFF Nederland
IFF Spain
Initial Lenders
Initial Issuing Banks
Citibank
Agent
          SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Certain Defined Terms
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(d).
Additional Commitment Lender
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
     "" means an advance by a Lender to a Borrower as a part of a Borrowing consisting of simultaneous Advances under a Facility from each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01, and includes a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance.
Advance
     "" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term "control" (including the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") of a Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 10% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
     "" has the meaning specified in the recital of parties and, as the context may require, includes the Sub-Agent.
Agent
     "" means (a) in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars, the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at Citibank at its office at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Account No. 36852248, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications, (b) in the case of Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, the account of the Sub-Agent designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Company and the
Agent's Account
 
Lenders for such purpose and (c) in any such case, such other account of the Agent as is designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Company and the Lenders for such purpose.
     "" means this Credit Agreement, as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Agreement
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
     "" means as of any date, with respect to any Base Rate Advance or Eurocurrency Rate Advance, as the case may be, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below under the applicable caption:
Applicable Margin
     "" means, as of any date a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below under the caption "Applicable Percentage":
Applicable Percentage
 
     "" means, at any time, with respect to (a) any of the Tranche A Facility, the Tranche B Facility or the Tranche C Facility, a Lender that has a Commitment with respect to such Facility at such time, (b) any Letter of Credit Subfacility, (i) any Issuing Bank that has a Letter of Credit Commitment with respect to such Letter of Credit Subfacility at such time and (ii) if the other Tranche A Lenders or Tranche B Lenders, as applicable, have made Revolving Credit Advances in respect of such Letter of Credit Subfacility pursuant to Section 2.03(c) that are outstanding at such time, each such other Tranche A Lender or Tranche B Lender, as applicable and (c) any Swing Line Subfacility, (i) each Swing Line Bank that has a Swing Line Commitment with respect to such Swing Line Subfacility at such time and (ii) if the other Tranche A Lenders or Tranche B Lenders have made Swing Line Advances in respect of such Swing Line Subfacility pursuant to Section 2.02(b) that are outstanding at such time, each such other Tranche A Lender or Tranche B Lender, as applicable.
Appropriate Lender
     "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.07(b)(iii)), and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C or any other form approved by the Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d).
Assuming Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d)(ii).
Assumption Agreement
     "" means an authorization, consent, approval, resolution, license exemption, filing or registration (including, without limitation, the Environmental Permits).
Authorization
     "" of any Letter of Credit means, at any time, the maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit at such time (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing).
Available Amount
     "" means any proceeding of the type referred to in Section 6.01(e) or Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar foreign, federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
     "" means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
     (a) the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank in New York, New York, from time to time, as Citibank's base rate for loans denominated in Dollars;
     (b) / of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate; and
1
2
     (c) the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate applicable to Dollars for a period of one month ("") plus 1.00% (for the avoidance
One Month LIBOR
 
of doubt, the One Month LIBOR for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or other commercially available source providing such quotations as designated by the Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day.
     "" means an Advance denominated in Dollars that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
     "" means, collectively, the Company, IFF Lux, NL Holding, IFF Nederland, IFF Spain and the Designated Subsidiaries from time to time.
Borrowers
     "" means a Revolving Credit Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing.
Borrowing
     "" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and banks are open for business in London and in the country of issue of the currency of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance (or, in the case of an Advance denominated in Euro, on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open).
Business Day
     "" means, at any time, cash as defined in the Audit and Accounting Guides issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants of the United States of America (as amended from time to time) which includes as at the date of this Agreement currency on hand, demand deposits with financial institutions and other similar deposit accounts.
Cash
     "" means, in respect of an obligation, deposit and pledge (as a first priority perfected security interest) cash collateral in Dollars, in an account to be approved by the Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) for the benefit of the Appropriate Lenders and pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent (and "" has a corresponding meaning).
Cash Collateralize
Cash Collateralization
     "" means, at any time, cash equivalents as defined in the Audit and Accounting Guides issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants of the United States of America (as amended from time to time) which includes as at the date of this Agreement short term instruments having not more than three months to final maturity and highly liquid instruments readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
Cash Equivalents
     "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, or, with respect to any Lender that becomes a party to this Agreement after the date hereof, such later date on which such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation, implementation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (x) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (y) all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
Change in Law
provided
 
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Citibank
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Code
     "" means a Revolving Credit Commitment, a Letter of Credit Commitment or a Swing Line Commitment.
Commitment
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Commitment Date
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Commitment Increase
     "" means lawful currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, lawful currency of The Swiss Federation, lawful currency of Japan and Euros.
Committed Currencies
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Company
     "" means Other Connection Taxes that are imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated) or that are franchise Taxes or branch profits Taxes.
Connection Income Taxes
     "" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
     "", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Revolving Credit Advances of one Type into Revolving Credit Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.09.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
     "" of any Person means, without duplication: (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of assets or services (other than trade payables not overdue by more than 60 days incurred in the ordinary course of such Person's business), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all obligations of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to assets acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such assets), (e) all obligations of such Person as lessee under leases that have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP as in effect on the Effective Date, recorded as capital leases, (f) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of acceptances, letters of credit or similar extensions of credit, (g) all obligations of such Person in respect of Hedge Agreements, (h) receivables sold or discounted (other than any receivables to the extent they are sold on a non-recourse basis), (i) any amount raised by the issue of shares redeemable mandatorily prior to the latest Termination Date, (j) any amount raised under any other transaction (including any forward sale or purchase agreement) having the commercial effect of a borrowing, (k) all Debt of others referred to in paragraphs (a) through (j) above or paragraph (l) below guaranteed directly or indirectly in any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly by such Person through an agreement (1) to pay or purchase such Debt or to advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such Debt, (2) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) assets, or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of such Debt or to assure the holder of such Debt against loss, (3) to supply funds to or in any other manner invest in the debtor (including any agreement to pay for assets or services irrespective of whether such assets are
Debt
 
received or such services are rendered) or (4) otherwise to assure a creditor against loss, and (l) all Debt referred to in paragraphs (a) through (k) above secured by (or for which the holder of such Debt has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on assets (including, without limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Debt.
     "" of a person means all items that, in accordance with GAAP, would be classified as indebtedness on a Consolidated balance sheet of such person other than any amounts which would be classified as indebtedness, in accordance with GAAP, which arise under any Hedge Agreements.
Debt for Borrowed Money
     "" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States of America, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect.
Debtor Relief Laws
     "" means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.07(b).
Default Interest
     "" means at any time, subject to Section 2.20(c), (i) any Lender that has failed for three or more Business Days to comply with its obligations under this Agreement to make an Advance, make a payment to an Issuing Bank in respect of drawing under a Letter of Credit, to make a payment to a Swing Line Bank in respect of Swing Line Advances or make any other payment due hereunder (each, a ""), unless such Lender has notified the Agent and the Company in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding has not been satisfied (which conditions precedent, together with the applicable default, if any, will be specifically identified in such writing), (ii) any Lender that has notified the Agent, the Company, an Issuing Bank or a Swing Line Bank in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder, unless such writing or statement states that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding cannot be satisfied (which conditions precedent, together with the applicable default, if any, will be specifically identified in such writing or public statement), (iii) any Lender that has defaulted on its funding obligations under other loan agreements or credit agreements generally under which it has commitments to extend credit or that has notified, or whose Parent Company has notified, the Agent or the Company in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under loan agreements or credit agreements generally, (iv) any Lender that has, for three or more Business Days after written request of the Agent or the Company, failed to confirm in writing to the Agent and the Company that it will comply with its prospective funding obligations hereunder (provided that such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (iv) upon the Agent's and the Company's receipt of such written confirmation), or (v) any Lender with respect to which a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing with respect to such Lender or its Parent Company; that, for the avoidance of doubt, a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of (1) the control, ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect Parent Company thereof by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality or (2) in the case of a solvent Lender, the precautionary appointment of an administrator, guardian, custodian or other similar official by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality under or based on the law of the country where such Lender is subject to home jurisdiction supervision if applicable law requires
Defaulting Lender
funding obligation
provided
 
that such appointment not be publicly disclosed, so long as, in the case of clause (1) and clause (2), such action does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Lender. Any determination by the Agent that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under any of clauses (i) through (v) above will be conclusive and binding absent manifest error, and such Lender will be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender (subject to Section 2.20(c)) upon notification of such determination by the Agent to the Company, the Issuing Banks, the Swing Line Banks and the Lenders.
     "" means any direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company designated for borrowing privileges under this Agreement pursuant to Section 9.09.
Designated Subsidiary
     "" means, with respect to any Designated Subsidiary, an agreement in the form of Exhibit D hereto signed by such Designated Subsidiary and the Company.
Designation Agreement
     "" and the "" sign each means lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
     "" means, with respect to any Lender, its office set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its Administrative Questionnaire as its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office as such Lender may hereafter designate as its Domestic Lending Office by notice to the Company and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
     "" means NL Holding, IFF Nederland and any Designated Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of the Netherlands.
Dutch Loan Party
     "" means, for means, for any Relevant Period, net income (or net loss) the sum of: (a) interest expense; (b) income tax expense; (c) depreciation expense; (d) amortization expense and all other non-cash charges; (e) extraordinary or unusual losses deducted in calculating net income extraordinary or unusual gains added in calculating net income, (f) all non-recurring non-cash expenses and charges, (g) any non-cash gains or losses from asset sales, (h) non-cash purchase accounting adjustments, (i) customary costs and expenses incurred in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents, (j) non-cash stock-based compensation expense for such period, (k) other expenses reducing such net income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period all non-cash items increasing net income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period, and (l) customary costs and expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, investments, issuances of equity and incurrence of indebtedness to the extent any such transaction is not prohibited by this Agreement, in each case determined in accordance with GAAP for the Relevant Period.
EBITDA
plus
less
less
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
     "" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under Section 9.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 9.07(b)(iii)).
Eligible Assignee
     "" means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to
Environmental Action
 
health, safety or the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.
     "" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial or agency interpretation, policy or guidance relating to pollution or protection of the environment, health, safety or natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Law
     "" means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
     "" (i) in Dollars of any Committed Currency on any date, means the quoted spot rate at which the Sub-Agent's principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for such Committed Currency in London prior to 11:00 A.M. (London time) on such date, (ii) in any Committed Currency of Dollars on any date, means the quoted spot rate at which the Sub-Agent's principal office in London offers to exchange such Committed Currency for Dollars in London prior to 11:00 A.M. (London time) on such date and (iii) in any Committed Currency (other than Euros) or Dollars of Euros on any date, means the quoted spot rate at which the Sub-Agent's principal office in London offers to exchange such Committed Currency or Dollars for Euros in London prior to 11:00 A.M. (London time) on such date.
Equivalent
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
     "" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Company's controlled group, or under common control with the Company, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) the requirements of Section 4043(b) of ERISA are met with respect to a contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver pursuant to Section 412 of the Code with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a "substantial employer," as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 303(k) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan; (g) a determination that any Plan is in "at risk" status (within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA); or (h) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
ERISA Event
 
     "" means, for any Interest Period, the greater of (a) 0.0% and (b) the rate appearing on Reuters EURIBOR01 Page (or on any successor or substitute page of Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for Reuters, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of Reuters, as determined by the Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in Euro by reference to the Banking Federation of the European Union Settlement Rates for deposits in Euro) at approximately 10:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in Euro with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the respective rates per annum at which deposits in Euros are offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Bank's Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period (subject, however, to the provisions of Section 2.08(e)).
EURIBO Rate
     "" means the lawful currency of the European Union as constituted by the Treaty of Rome which established the European Community, as such treaty may be amended from time to time and as referred to in the EMU legislation.
Euro
     "" means, with respect to any Lender, its office, branch or Affiliate located at its address set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its Administrative Questionnaire as its Eurocurrency Lending Office) or such other office, branch or Affiliate as such Lender may hereafter designate as its Eurocurrency Lending Office by notice to the Company and the Agent.
Eurocurrency Lending Office
     "" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
     "" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) (i) in the case of any Advance denominated in Dollars or any Committed Currency other than Euros, the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency is offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Bank's Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period and (ii) in the case of any Advance denominated in Euro, the EURIBO Rate by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period. If the Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) is unavailable, the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two
Eurocurrency Rate
 
Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, , , to the provisions of Section 2.08.
subject
however
     "" means a Revolving Credit Advance denominated in Dollars or a Committed Currency that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(ii).
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
     "" for any Interest Period for all Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurocurrency Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
     "" means any of the following Taxes imposed on or with respect to a Recipient or required to be withheld or deducted from a payment to a Recipient, (a) Taxes imposed on or measured by net income or gross income (however denominated), franchise and similar Taxes, and branch profits Taxes, in each case, (i) imposed as a result of such Recipient being organized under the laws of, or having its principal office or, in the case of any Lender, its Applicable Lending Office located in, the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (or any political subdivision thereof) or (ii) that are Other Connection Taxes, (b) in the case of a Lender, U.S. federal withholding Taxes imposed on amounts payable to or for the account of such Lender with respect to an applicable interest in an Advance or Commitment pursuant to a law in effect on the date on which (i) such Lender acquires such interest in such Advance or Commitment (other than pursuant to an assignment request by the Company under Section 9.07) or (ii) such Lender changes its lending office, except in each case to the extent that, pursuant to Section 2.14, amounts with respect to such Taxes were payable either to such Lender's assignor immediately before such Lender became a party hereto or to such Lender immediately before it changed its lending office, (c) Taxes attributable to such Recipient's failure to comply with Section 2.14(g) and (d) any U.S. federal withholding Taxes imposed under FATCA.
Excluded Taxes
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Extension Date
     "" means the Tranche A Facility, the Tranche B Facility or the Tranche C Facility (all of the foregoing being, collectively, the "").
Facility
Facilities
     "" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
     "" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day
Federal Funds Rate
 
that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
     "" means (a) if the applicable Borrower is a U.S. Person, a Lender that is not a U.S. Person, and (b) if the applicable Borrower is not a U.S. Person, a Lender that is resident or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes.
Foreign Lender
     "" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender (a) with respect to any Issuing Bank, such Defaulting Lender's Ratable Share of the L/C Obligations with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, other than L/C Obligations as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof and (b) with respect to any Swing Line Bank, such Defaulting Lender's Ratable Share of the Swing Line Advances, other that Swing Line Advances as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance wit the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
     "" means any Person (other than a natural Person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States of America or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 7.01.
Guaranteed Obligations
     "" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas and (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as hazardous or toxic or as a pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
     "" means interest rate swap, cap or collar agreements, interest rate future or option contracts, currency swap agreements, currency future or option contracts and other similar agreements.
Hedge Agreements
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
IFF Lux
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
IFF Nederland
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
IFF Spain
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Increase Date
 
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Increasing Lender
     "" means (a) Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by or on account of any obligation of any Loan Party under any Loan Document and (b) to the extent not otherwise described in (a), Other Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.04(b).
Indemnitee
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.08.
Information
     "" means the information memorandum dated October 13, 2011, as modified or supplemented prior to the date hereof, used by the Agent in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Initial Issuing Bank
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Initial Lender
     "" means (x) for each Tranche B Swing Line Advance comprising part of the same Swing Line Borrowing, the period, not to exceed five Business Days, specified by the applicable Borrower in the Notice of Swing Line Borrowing in respect of such Borrowing and (y) for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurocurrency Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower requesting such Borrowing pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by such Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be one, two, three or six months or, subject to clause (c) of this definition, nine or twelve months, as the applicable Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period (which shall promptly notify each of the Appropriate Lenders), select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
     (a) the Borrowers may not select any Interest Period that ends after the latest Termination Date;
     (b) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
     (c) in respect of any Eurocurrency Rate Advance, the Borrowers shall not be entitled to select an Interest Period having a duration of nine or twelve months unless, by 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period (the failure of any Appropriate Lender to so respond by such time being deemed for all purposes of this Agreement as an objection by such Appropriate Lender to the requested duration of such Interest Period); that, if any or all of the Appropriate Lenders object to the requested duration of such Interest Period, the duration of the Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be one, two, three or six
provided
 
months, as specified by the applicable Borrower in the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing as the desired alternative to the Interest Period of nine or twelve months;
     (d) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, , , that, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
however
     (e) whenever the first day of any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Advances occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
     "" with respect to any Letter of Credit means the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit.
Issuance
     "" means a Tranche A Issuing Bank or a Tranche B Issuing Bank.
Issuing Bank
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
     "" means an interest bearing cash deposit account to be established and maintained by the Agent on behalf of the Appropriate Lenders, over which the Agent shall have sole dominion and control, upon terms as may be reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.
L/C Cash Deposit Account
     "" means, as of any date, the aggregate Available Amount of outstanding Letters of Credit and Advances made by an Issuing Bank in accordance with Section 2.03(c) that have not been funded by the Lenders.
L/C Obligations
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.06(b)(i).
L/C Related Documents
     "" means that (a) a Lender or its Parent Company is insolvent, or is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (b) such Lender or its Parent Company is the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation or similar proceeding, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company, or such Lender or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
Lender Insolvency Event
     "" means the Tranche A Lenders, the Tranche B Lenders and the Tranche C Lenders.
Lenders
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
Letter of Credit
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Letter of Credit Agreement
 
     "" means a Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment or a Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment.
Letter of Credit Commitment
     "" means the Tranche A Letter of Credit Subfacility or the Tranche B Letter of Credit Subfacility.
Letter of Credit Subfacility
     "" means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor and any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property.
Lien
     "" means this Agreement, any Note, each Letter of Credit Agreement and each Designation Agreement.
Loan Document
     "" means the Company and each other Borrower.
Loan Party
     "" means the percentage rate per annum calculated by the Agent in accordance with Schedule II.
Mandatory Cost
     "" means any material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
     "" means a material adverse effect on: (a) the business, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender under the Loan Documents; or (c) the ability of any Loan Party or the Company to perform its payment obligations under the Loan Documents.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
     "" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, which is subject to Title IV of ERISA, and that (a) is maintained for employees of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Company and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
     "" means Debt for Borrowed Money less Cash and Cash Equivalents.
Net Debt
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
NL Holding
     "" means any Lender that does not approve any consent, waiver or amendment that (i) requires the approval of all affected Lenders in accordance with the terms of Section 9.01 and (ii) has been approved by the Required Lenders.
Non-Consenting Lender
 
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Non-Extending Lender
     "" means, at any time, a Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender.
Non-Defaulting Lender
     "" means a promissory note of any Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.16 in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of such Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by such Lender to such Borrower.
Note
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Notice Date
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Notice of Issuance
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(b).
Notice of Swing Line Borrowing
     "" means, with respect to any Recipient, Taxes imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (other than connections arising from such Recipient having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document, or sold or assigned an interest in any Advance or Loan Document).
Other Connection Taxes
     "" means all present or future stamp, court or documentary, intangible, recording, filing or similar Taxes that arise from any payment made under, from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, from the receipt or perfection of a security interest under, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document, except any such Taxes that are Other Connection Taxes imposed with respect to an assignment (other than an assignment made pursuant to Section 2.21(b)).
Other Taxes
     "" means (a) with respect to Advances or other amounts denominated in Dollars, the Federal Funds Rate and (b) with respect to Advances or other amounts denominated in Committed Currencies, the rate per annum applicable to an overnight period beginning on one Business Day and ending on the next Business Day equal to the sum of 1% and the average, rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%, if such average is not such a multiple, of the respective rates per annum quoted by each Reference Bank to the Agent on request as the rate at which it is offering overnight deposits in the relevant currency in amounts comparable to such Reference Bank's Eurocurrency Rate Advances.
Overnight Rate
     "" means, with respect to a Lender, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such Lender, or if such Lender does not have a bank holding company, then any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares of such Lender.
Parent Company
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.07(d).
Participant
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.07(d).
Participant Register
 
     "" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001, as amended.
Patriot Act
     "" means, for any Committed Currency, such office of Citibank as shall be from time to time selected by the Agent and notified by the Agent to the Company and the Lenders.
Payment Office
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).
PBGC
     "" means such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced: (a) Liens for Taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent not required to be paid under Section 5.01(c); (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', carriers', workmen's and repairmen's Lien and other similar Lien arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations that are not overdue for a period of more than 60 days; (c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations; (d) easements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real property that do not render title to the real property encumbered thereby unmarketable or materially adversely affect the use of such real property for its present purposes; (e) any netting or set-off arrangement entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of its banking arrangements for the purpose of netting debit and credit balances of the Company and its Subsidiaries; (f) any Lien arising solely by virtue of the maintenance of a bank account by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business pursuant to the general terms and conditions of the bank with which such account is held; and (g) any Lien arising by operation of law and in the ordinary course of trading.
Permitted Liens
     "" means any natural Person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or any political subdivision or agency thereof or other entity.
Person
     "" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan, which is maintained for employees of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 7.05(b).
Post-Petition Interest
     "" has the meaning specified in 9.12(c).
Primary Currency
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.09(a).
Protesting Lender
     "" means, as of any date, the rating that has been most recently announced by either S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Company or, if any such rating agency shall have issued more than one such rating, the lowest such rating issued by such rating agency. For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P and Moody's shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the available rating; (b) if neither S&P nor Moody's shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage will be set in accordance with Level 7 under the definition of "" or "", as the case may be; (c) if the ratings established by S&P and Moody's shall fall within different levels, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the higher rating unless the such ratings differ
Public Debt Rating
Applicable Margin
Applicable Percentage
 
by two or more levels, in which case the applicable level will be deemed to be one level above the lower of such levels; (d) if any rating established by S&P or Moody's shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change; and (e) if S&P or Moody's shall change the basis on which ratings are established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be.
     "" means, with respect to any Lender under any Facility at any time, the percentage of the total Revolving Credit Commitments under such Facility represented by such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment under such Facility. If the applicable Revolving Credit Commitments have terminated or expired, the Ratable Shares shall be determined based upon the applicable Revolving Credit Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Ratable Share
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 5.02(b)(v).
Reacquisition Sale and Leaseback Transaction
     "" means (a) the Agent, (b) any Lender and (c) any Issuing Bank, as applicable.
Recipient
     "" means Citibank, Fortis Bank SA/NV and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Reference Banks
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.07(c).
Register
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01(g).
Regulation U
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, administrators, managers, advisors and representatives of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means each period of twelve months ending on the last day of the Company's financial year and each period of twelve months ending on the last day of each of the first three quarters of the Company's financial year.
Relevant Period
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.06(b).
Removal Effective Date
     "" means at any time Lenders owed in excess of 50% of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount (based on the Equivalent in Dollars at such time) of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having in excess of 50% of the Revolving Credit Commitments; that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders at such time the Revolving Credit Commitments of such Lender at such time.
Required Lenders
provided
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.06(a).
Resignation Effective Date
     "" means a Tranche A Revolving Credit Advance, a Tranche B Revolving Credit Advance or a Tranche C Revolving Credit Advance.
Revolving Credit Advance
 
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made by each of the Appropriate Lenders.
Revolving Credit Borrowing
     "" means, in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Dollars, $10,000,000, in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Sterling, 10,000,000, in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Yen, 100,000,000, in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Francs, 10,000,000, and, in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Euros, 10,000,000.
Revolving Credit Borrowing Minimum
     "" means, in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Dollars, $1,000,000 in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Sterling, 1,000,000, in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Yen, 10,000,000, in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Francs, 1,000,000, and, in respect of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Euros, 1,000,000.
Revolving Credit Borrowing Multiple
     "" means a Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitment, a Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitment or a Tranche C Revolving Credit Commitment.
Revolving Credit Commitment
     "" means Standard & Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
     "" means any Plan that is subject to Title IV of ERISA, but that is not a Multiemployer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Single Employer Plan
     "" means Citibank International plc.
Sub-Agent
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 7.05.
Subordinated Obligations
     "" of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
     "" means a Tranche A Swing Line Bank or a Tranche B Swing Line Bank.
Swing Line Bank
     "" means a Tranche A Swing Line Borrowing or a Tranche B Swing Line Borrowing.
Swing Line Borrowing
     "" means a Tranche A Swing Line Commitment or a Tranche B Swing Line Commitment.
Swing Line Commitment
     "" means a Tranche A Swing Line Subfacility or a Tranche B Swing Line Subfacility.
Swing Line Subfacility
 
     "" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
     "" means the earlier of (a) November 9, 2016, subject to the extension thereof pursuant to Section 2.19 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01; , , that the Termination Date of any Lender that is a Non-Extending Lender to any requested extension pursuant to Section 2.19 shall be the Termination Date in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date for all purposes of this Agreement.
Termination Date
provided
however
     "" means, as to any Lender at any time, the sum of the aggregate principal amount at such time of its outstanding Revolving Credit Advances and such Lender's participation in L/C Obligations and such Lender's pro rata portion of any Swing Line Advances at such time and the Unused Commitments of such Lender at such time.
Total Credit Exposure
     "" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Tranche A Lenders' Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitments at such time.
Tranche A Facility
     "" means an Initial Issuing Bank or any Eligible Assignee to which a portion of the Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment hereunder has been assigned pursuant to Section 9.07 or any other Tranche A Lender appointed by the Company so long as such Eligible Assignee or Lender expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Tranche A Issuing Bank and notifies the Agent of its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Agent in the Register), for so long as such Initial Issuing Bank, Eligible Assignee or Lender, as the case may be, shall have a Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment.
Tranche A Issuing Bank
     "" means the Persons listed on Schedule I as having a Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitment and any other Person that shall have become party hereto with a Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitment pursuant to an Assumption Agreement or an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context requires otherwise, the term "Tranche A Lenders" includes each Tranche A Swing Line Bank.
Tranche A Lenders
     "" means, with respect to each Tranche A Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrowers and their specified Subsidiaries in (a) the Dollar amount set forth opposite the Issuing Bank's name on Schedule I hereto under the caption "Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment" or (b) if such Issuing Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, the Dollar amount set forth for such Issuing Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c) as such Issuing Bank's "Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment", in each case as such amount may be reduced prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05.
Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment
     "" means, at any time, an amount equal to the least of (a) the aggregate amount of the Issuing Banks' Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitments at such time, (b) $25,000,000 and (c) the aggregate amount of the Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitments, as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05. The Tranche A Letter of Credit Subfacility is part of, and not in addition to, the aggregate Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitments.
Tranche A Letter of Credit Subfacility
 
     "" means an Advance by a Tranche A Lender to any Borrower as part of a Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Tranche A Facility and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Tranche A Revolving Credit Advance).
Tranche A Revolving Credit Advance
Type
     "" means as to any Tranche A Lender (a) the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule I hereto as such Lender's "Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitment", (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the Dollar amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement or (c) if such Lender has entered into an Assignment and Assumption, the Dollar amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05 or increased pursuant to Section 2.18.
Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitment
     "" means an Advance made by a Tranche A Swing Line Bank pursuant to Section 2.01(c)(i) or any Lender pursuant to Section 2.02(b).
Tranche A Swing Line Advance
     "" means Citibank, in its capacity as lender of Tranche A Swing Line Advances hereunder, and any other Tranche A Lender appointed by the Company so long as such Lender expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Tranche A Swing Line Bank and notifies the Agent of its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Agent in the Register), for so long as Citibank or such Lender, as the case may be, shall have a Tranche A Swing Line Commitment.
Tranche A Swing Line Bank
     "" means a Borrowing consisting of Tranche A Swing Line Advances made by the Tranche A Swing Line Banks.
Tranche A Swing Line Borrowing
     "" means with respect to each Tranche A Swing Line Bank, the amount set forth opposite such Tranche A Swing Line Bank's name on Schedule I hereto or in the Register maintained by the Agent as its Tranche A Swing Line Commitment, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05.
Tranche A Swing Line Commitment
     "" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $50,000,000 and (b) the aggregate Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitments. The Tranche A Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the aggregate Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitments.
Tranche A Swing Line Subfacility
     "" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Tranche B Lenders' Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitments at such time.
Tranche B Facility
     "" means an Initial Issuing Bank or any Eligible Assignee to which a portion of the Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment hereunder has been assigned pursuant to Section 9.07 or any other Tranche B Lender appointed by the Company so long as such Eligible Assignee or Lender expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Tranche B Issuing Bank and notifies the Agent of its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Agent in the Register), for so long as such Initial Issuing Bank, Eligible Assignee or Lender, as the case may be, shall have a Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment.
Tranche B Issuing Bank
 
     "" means the Persons listed on Schedule I as having a Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitment and any other Person that shall have become party hereto with a Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitment pursuant to an Assumption Agreement or an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context requires otherwise, the term "Tranche B Lenders" includes each Tranche B Swing Line Bank.
Tranche B Lenders
     "" means, with respect to each Tranche B Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrowers and their specified Subsidiaries in (a) the Euro amount set forth opposite the Issuing Bank's name on Schedule I hereto under the caption "Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment" or (b) if such Issuing Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, the Euro amount set forth for such Issuing Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c) as such Issuing Bank's "Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment", in each case as such amount may be reduced prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05.
Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment
     "" means, at any time, an amount equal to the least of (a) the aggregate amount of the Issuing Banks' Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitments at such time, (b) 25,000,000 and (c) the aggregate amount of the Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitments, as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05. The Tranche B Letter of Credit Subfacility is part of, and not in addition to, the aggregate Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitments.
Tranche B Letter of Credit Subfacility
     "" means an Advance by a Tranche B Lender to any Borrower as part of a Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Tranche B Facility.
Tranche B Revolving Credit Advance
     "" means as to any Tranche B Lender (a) the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule I hereto as such Lender's "Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitment", (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the Dollar amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement or (c) if such Lender has entered into an Assignment and Assumption, the Dollar amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05 or increased pursuant to Section 2.18.
Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitment
     "" means an Advance made by a Tranche B Swing Line Bank pursuant to Section 2.01(c)(ii) or any Lender pursuant to Section 2.02(b).
Tranche B Swing Line Advance
     "" means Citibank International plc, in its capacity as lender of Tranche B Swing Line Advances hereunder, and any other Tranche B Lender appointed by the Company so long as such Lender expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Tranche B Swing Line Bank and notifies the Agent of its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Agent in the Register), for so long as Citibank International or such Lender, as the case may be, shall have a Tranche B Swing Line Commitment.
Tranche B Swing Line Bank
     "" means a Borrowing consisting of Tranche B Swing Line Advance made by the Tranche B Swing Line Banks.
Tranche B Swing Line Borrowing
     "" means with respect to each Tranche B Swing Line Bank, the amount set forth opposite such Tranche B Swing Line Bank's name on Schedule I
Tranche B Swing Line Commitment
 
hereto or in the Register maintained by the Agent as its Tranche B Swing Line Commitment, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05.
     "" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) 50,000,000 and (b) the aggregate Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitments. The Tranche B Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the aggregate Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitments.
Tranche B Swing Line Subfacility
     "" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Tranche C Lenders' Tranche C Revolving Credit Commitments at such time.
Tranche C Facility
     "" means the Persons listed on Schedule I as having a Tranche C Revolving Credit Commitment and any other Person that shall have become party hereto with a Tranche C Revolving Credit Commitment pursuant to an Assumption Agreement or an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption.
Tranche C Lenders
     "" means an advance by a Tranche C Lender to any Borrower as part of a Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Tranche C Facility.
Tranche C Revolving Credit Advance
     "" means as to any Tranche C Lender (a) the Euro amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule I hereto as such Lender's "Tranche C Revolving Credit Commitment", (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the Euro amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement or (c) if such Lender has entered into an Assignment and Assumption, the Euro amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05 or increased pursuant to Section 2.18.
Tranche C Revolving Credit Commitment
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of Tranche A Revolving Credit Advance.
Type
     "" means the Unissued Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment or the Unissued Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment.
Unissued Letter of Credit Commitment
     "" means, with respect to any Tranche A Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of any Borrower or its specified Subsidiaries in an amount equal to the excess of (a) the amount of its Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment over (b) the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank under the Tranche A Facility.
Unissued Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment
     "" means, with respect to any Tranche B Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of any Borrower or its specified Subsidiaries in an amount equal to the excess of (a) the amount of its Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment over (b) the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank under the Tranche B Facility.
Unissued Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment
     "" means the Unused Tranche A Commitment, the Unused Tranche B Commitment or the Unused Tranche C Commitment.
Unused Commitment
     "" means, with respect to each Tranche A Lender at any time, (a) such Lender's Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (b) the sum
Unused Tranche A Commitment
minus
 
of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Tranche A Revolving Credit Advances made by such Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time, (ii) such Lender's Ratable Share of (A) the aggregate Available Amount of all the Letters of Credit outstanding at such time under the Tranche A Facility, (B) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by each Issuing Bank under the Tranche A Facility pursuant to Section 2.03(c) that have not been ratably funded by such Lender and outstanding at such time, after giving effect to any adjustments made in accordance with Section 2.20(a) and (C) the aggregate principal amount of all Tranche A Swing Line Advances then outstanding.
plus
     "" means, with respect to each Tranche B Lender at any time, (a) such Lender's Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Tranche B Revolving Credit Advances made by such Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time, (ii) such Lender's Ratable Share of (A) the aggregate Available Amount of all the Letters of Credit outstanding at such time under the Tranche B Facility, (B) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by each Issuing Bank under the Tranche B Facility pursuant to Section 2.03(c) that have not been ratably funded by such Lender and outstanding at such time, after giving effect to any adjustments made in accordance with Section 2.20(a) and (C) the aggregate principal amount of all Tranche B Swing Line Advances then outstanding.
Unused Tranche B Commitment
minus
plus
     "" means, with respect to each Tranche C Lender at any time, (a) such Lender's Tranche C Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (b) the aggregate principal amount of all Tranche C Revolving Credit Advances made by such Lender and outstanding at such time.
Unused Tranche C Commitment
minus
     "" means any Borrower that is a U.S. Person.
U.S. Borrower
     "" means any Person that is a "United States Person" as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.14(g).
U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
     "" means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
     "" means any Loan Party and the Agent.
Withholding Agent
          SECTION 1.02. . In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding".
Computation of Time Periods
          SECTION 1.03. . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) (""). Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature used herein shall be construed, and all computations of amounts and ratios referred to herein shall be made (i) without giving effect to any election under Accounting Standards Codification 825-10-25 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting
Accounting Terms
GAAP
 
Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any Debt or other liabilities of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof at "fair value", as defined therein, (ii) without giving effect to any treatment of Debt in respect of convertible debt instruments under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any such Debt in a reduced or bifurcated manner as described therein, and such Debt shall at all times be valued at the full stated principal amount thereof and (iii) in a manner such that any obligations relating to a lease that was accounted for by a Person as an operating lease as of the Effective Date and any similar lease entered into after the Effective Date by such Person shall be accounted for as obligations relating to an operating lease and not as a capital lease.
          SECTION 2.01. . (a) . (i) . Each Tranche A Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Tranche A Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Dollars or any Committed Currency to any Borrower (other than IFF Spain) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender in an amount (based in respect of any Revolving Credit Advances to be denominated in a Committed Currency by reference to the Equivalent thereof in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing) not to exceed such Lender's Unused Tranche A Commitment. Each Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Tranche A Facility shall be in an amount not less than the Revolving Credit Borrowing Minimum or the Revolving Credit Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and shall consist of Tranche A Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type and in the same currency made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender's Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitment, any Borrower (other than IFF Spain) may borrow under this Section 2.01(a)(i), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(a)(i).
The Advances and Letters of Credit
The Revolving Credit Advances
Tranche A
          (ii) . Each Tranche B Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Tranche B Revolving Credit Advances denominated in any Committed Currency to any Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender in an amount (based in respect of any Tranche B Revolving Credit Advances to be denominated in a Committed Currency by reference to the Equivalent thereof in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing) not to exceed such Lender's Unused Tranche B Commitment. Each Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Tranche B Facility shall be in an amount not less than the Revolving Credit Borrowing Minimum or the Revolving Credit Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and shall consist of Eurocurrency Rate Advances in the same currency made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender's Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitment, any Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01(a)(ii), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(a)(ii).
Tranche B
          (iii) . Each Tranche C Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Tranche C Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Euros to any Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender in an amount (determined by reference to the Equivalent of Euros in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing) not to exceed such Lender's Unused Tranche C Commitment. Each Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Tranche C Facility shall be in an amount not less than the Revolving Credit
Tranche C
 
Borrowing Minimum or the Revolving Credit Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and shall consist of Eurocurrency Rate Advances in the same currency made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Tranche C Revolving Credit Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender's Tranche C Revolving Credit Commitment, any Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01(a)(iii), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(a)(iii).
          (b) . (i) . Each Tranche A Issuing Bank agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Tranche A Lenders set forth in this Agreement, to issue letters of credit (each, a "") denominated in Dollars for the account of any Borrower (other than IFF Spain) and its specified Subsidiaries from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 30 days before the Termination Date applicable to such Issuing Bank in an aggregate Available Amount (i) for all Letters of Credit issued by each Tranche A Issuing Bank not to exceed at any time the lesser of (x) the Tranche A Letter of Credit Subfacility at such time and (y) such Tranche A Issuing Bank's Tranche A Letter of Credit Commitment at such time and (ii) for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Tranche A Commitments of the Lenders at such time. Within the limits referred to above, the Borrowers (other than IFF Spain) may from time to time request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b)(i).
Letters of Credit
Tranche A
Letter of Credit
          (ii) . Each Tranche B Issuing Bank agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Tranche B Lenders set forth in this Agreement, to issue Letters of Credit denominated in Euros for the account of any Borrower and its specified Subsidiaries from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 30 days before the Termination Date applicable to such Issuing Bank in an aggregate Available Amount (i) for all Letters of Credit issued by each Tranche B Issuing Bank not to exceed at any time the lesser of (x) the Tranche B Letter of Credit Subfacility at such time and (y) such Tranche B Issuing Bank's Tranche B Letter of Credit Commitment at such time and (ii) for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Tranche B Commitments of the Lenders at such time. Within the limits referred to above, the Borrowers may from time to time request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b)(ii).
Tranche B
          (c) . (i) . Each Tranche A Swing Line Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Tranche A Swing Line Advances denominated in Dollars to any Borrower (other than IFF Spain) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the Termination Date applicable to the Tranche A Swing Line Bank (A) in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the Tranche A Swing Line Subfacility and (B) in an amount for each such Advance not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Tranche A Commitments of the Tranche A Lenders on such Business Day. Each Tranche A Swing Line Borrowing shall be in an amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and shall consist of Base Rate Advances made on the same day by the Tranche A Swing Line Banks ratably according to their respective Tranche A Swing Line Commitments. Within the limits of the Tranche A Swing Line Subfacility and within the limits referred to in clause (B) above, the Borrowers (other than IFF Spain) may borrow under this Section 2.01(c)(i), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(c)(i).
The Swing Line Advances
Tranche A
          (ii) . The Tranche B Swing Line Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Tranche B Swing Line Advances denominated in Euros to any Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the Termination Date applicable to the Tranche B Swing Line Bank (A) in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the Tranche B Swing Line Subfacility and (B) in an amount for each such Advance not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Tranche B Commitments of the Tranche B
Tranche B
 
Lenders on such Business Day. Each Tranche B Swing Line Borrowing shall be in an amount of 5,000,000 or an integral multiple of 1,000,000 in excess thereof and shall consist of Eurocurrency Rate Advances made on the same day by the Tranche B Swing Line Banks ratably according to their respective Tranche B Swing Line Commitments. Within the limits of the Tranche B Swing Line Subfacility and within the limits referred to in clause (B) above, the Borrowers may borrow under this Section 2.01(c)(ii), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(c)(ii).
          SECTION 2.02. . (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.02(b) or Section 2.03(c), each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (y) 1:00 P.M. (London time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency or (z) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by any Borrower to the Agent (and, in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, simultaneously to the Sub-Agent), which shall give to each Appropriate Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier. Each such notice of a Revolving Credit Borrowing (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, initial Interest Period and currency for each such Revolving Credit Advance. Each Appropriate Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Advances denominated in Dollars, and before 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the applicable Agent's Account, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing in accordance with the respective Commitments under the applicable Facility of such Lender and the other Appropriate Lenders. After the Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower requesting the Revolving Credit Borrowing at the Agent's address referred to in Section 9.02 or at the applicable Payment Office, as the case may be; , , that, if such Borrowing is denominated in the currency of any outstanding Swing Line Advance under the same Facility, the Agent shall first make a portion of such funds equal to the aggregate principal amount of such Swing Line Advances made by the applicable Swing Line Bank and by any other Appropriate Lender and outstanding on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, plus interest accrued and unpaid thereon to and as of such date, available to the applicable Swing Line Bank and such other Appropriate Lenders for repayment of such Swing Line Advances.
Making the Advances
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
provided
however
          (b) Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing in the case of a Tranche A Swing Line Borrowing or (y) 1:00 P.M. (London time) on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing in the case of a Tranche B Swing Line Borrowing, in each case by the applicable Borrower to the applicable Swing Line Banks and the Agent (and, in the case of a Tranche B Swing Line Borrowing, simultaneously to the Sub-Agent), of which the Agent shall give prompt notice to the Appropriate Lenders. Each such notice of a Swing Line Borrowing (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed at once in writing, or telecopier, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) amount of such Borrowing and (iii) Interest Period of such Borrowing (which Interest
Notice of Swing Line Borrowing
 
Period shall end no later than the fifth Business Day after the requested date of such Borrowing). The applicable Swing Line Banks shall, before 5:00 P.M. (New York City time) in the case of a Tranche A Swing Line Borrowing and before 5:00 P.M. (London time) in the case of a Tranche B Swing Line Borrowing on the date of such Swing Line Borrowing, make such Swing Line Borrowing available to the Agent at the Agent's Account, in same day funds. After the Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the applicable Borrower at the Agent's address referred to in Section 9.02. No Swing Line Advance shall be used for the purpose of funding the payment of principal of any other Swing Line Advance.
          Upon written demand by an applicable Swing Line Bank, with a copy of such demand to the Agent, each other Appropriate Lender will purchase from such Swing Line Bank, and such Swing Line Bank shall sell and assign to each such other Lender, such other Lender's Ratable Share of such outstanding Swing Line Advance, by making available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent for the account of such Swing Line Bank, by deposit to the Agent's Account, in same day funds, an amount equal to the portion of the outstanding principal amount of such Swing Line Advance to be purchased by such Lender. Each Borrower hereby agrees to each such sale and assignment. Each Lender agrees to purchase its Ratable Share of (i) an outstanding Tranche A Swing Line Advance on (x) the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by the Swing Line Bank which made such Advance, provided that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Business Day or (y) the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time and (ii) an outstanding Tranche B Swing Line Advance on the third Business Day after the date demand therefor is made by the Swing Line Bank which made such Advance. Upon any such assignment by any Swing Line Bank to any other Lender of a portion of a Swing Line Advance, such Swing Line Bank represents and warrants to such other Lender that such Swing Line Bank is the legal and beneficial owner of such interest being assigned by it, but makes no other representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to such Swing Line Advance, this Agreement, the Notes or the Borrowers. If and to the extent that any Lender shall not have so made the amount of such Swing Line Advance available to the Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such Lender is required to have made such amount available to the Agent until the date such amount is paid to the Agent, at the higher of the Overnight Rate and the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charge by the Agent in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender shall pay to the Agent such amount for the account of such Swing Line Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute a Swing Line Advance made by such Lender on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Swing Line Advance made by such Swing Line Bank shall be reduced by such amount on such Business Day.
          (c) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrowers may not select Eurocurrency Rate Advances for any Revolving Credit Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing is less than the Revolving Credit Borrowing Minimum or if the obligation of the Appropriate Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.12 and (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than six separate Revolving Credit Borrowings.
          (d) Each Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing and Notice of Swing Line Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower requesting the Borrowing. In the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that the related Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, such Borrower shall indemnify each Appropriate Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing for such Revolving Credit Borrowing
 
the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding any loss of profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing when such Revolving Credit Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
          (e) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from an Appropriate Lender prior to the time of any Revolving Credit Borrowing or Swing Line Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 2.02, as applicable, and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower requesting the Borrowing on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and such Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to such Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of such Borrower, the higher of the interest rate applicable at the time to the Advances comprising such Borrowing and the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the higher of the Overnight Rate and the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Agent in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
          (f) The failure of any Appropriate Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Appropriate Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Revolving Credit Advance on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing.
          SECTION 2.03. . (a) . Each Letter of Credit shall be issued upon notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Issuance of such Letter of Credit (or on such shorter notice as the applicable Issuing Bank may agree), by any Borrower to any Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall give the Agent, prompt notice thereof. Each such notice by a Borrower of Issuance of a Letter of Credit (a "") shall be by telecopier or telephone, confirmed immediately in writing (including by telecopier), specifying therein the requested (A) date of such Issuance (which shall be a Business Day), (B) Available Amount and currency of such Letter of Credit, (C) expiration date of such Letter of Credit, (D) name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit and (E) form of such Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit shall be issued pursuant to such application and agreement for letter of credit as such Issuing Bank and the applicable Borrower shall agree for use in connection with such requested Letter of Credit (a ""). If the requested form of such Letter of Credit is acceptable to such Issuing Bank in its reasonable discretion (it being understood that any such form shall have only explicit documentary conditions to draw and shall not include discretionary conditions), such Issuing Bank will, upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.03, make such Letter of Credit available to the applicable Borrower at its office referred to in Section 9.02 or as otherwise agreed with such Borrower in connection with such Issuance. In the event and to the extent that the provisions of any Letter of Credit Agreement shall conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern. No Letter of Credit shall have an expiration date (including all rights of the applicable Borrower or the beneficiary to require renewal) later than 10 Business Days before the Termination Date, that no Letter of Credit may
Issuance of and Drawings and Reimbursement Under Letters of Credit
Request for Issuance
Notice of Issuance
Letter of Credit Agreement
provided
 
expire after the Termination Date of any Non-Extending Lender under the applicable Facility if, after giving effect to such issuance, the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Extending Lenders (including any replacement Lenders) for the period following such Termination Date would be less than the Available Amount of the Letters of Credit under such Facility expiring after such Termination Date.
          (b) . By the Issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing or decreasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, such Issuing Bank under a Facility hereby grants to each Appropriate Lender, and each Appropriate Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit. Each Borrower hereby agrees to each such participation. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Appropriate Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Agent, for the account of such Issuing Bank, such Lender's Ratable Share of each drawing made under a Letter of Credit funded by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date made, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to such Borrower for any reason, which amount will be advanced, and deemed to be an Advance to such Borrower hereunder, regardless of the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.03. Each Appropriate Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each Appropriate such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Appropriate Lender further acknowledges and agrees that its participation in each Letter of Credit will be automatically adjusted to reflect such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit at each time such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment under the applicable Facility is amended pursuant to a Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.18, an assignment in accordance with Section 9.07 or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement.
Participations
          (c) . The payment by an Issuing Bank of a draft drawn under any Letter of Credit which is not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date made shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by any such Issuing Bank of an Advance, which shall be a Base Rate Advance, in the case of a Letter of Credit issued by a Tranche A Issuing Bank and shall be a Eurocurrency Rate Advance having an Interest Period of one month, in the case of a Letter of Credit issued by a Tranche B Issuing Bank, in the amount of such draft, without regard to whether the making of such an Advance would exceed such Issuing Bank's Unused Commitment. Each Issuing Bank shall give prompt notice of each drawing under any Letter of Credit issued by it to the applicable Borrower and the Agent. Upon written demand by such Issuing Bank, with a copy of such demand to the Agent and the applicable Borrower, each Appropriate Lender shall pay to the Agent such Lender's Ratable Share of such outstanding Advance pursuant to Section 2.03(b). Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to make Advances pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Promptly after receipt thereof, the Agent shall transfer such funds to such Issuing Bank. Each Appropriate Lender agrees to fund its Ratable Share of an outstanding Advance on (i) the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by such Issuing Bank, that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) in the case of the Tranche A Facility or later than 11:00 A.M. (London time) in the case of the Tranche B Facility on such Business Day, or (ii) the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time. If and to the extent that any Appropriate Lender shall not have so made the amount of such Advance available to the Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the Agent
Drawing and Reimbursement
provided
 
forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand by any such Issuing Bank until the date such amount is paid to the Agent, for its account or the account of such Issuing Bank, as applicable, at the higher of the Overnight Rate and the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Agent in connection with the foregoing. If such Appropriate Lender shall pay to the Agent such amount for the account of any such Issuing Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute an Advance made by such Lender on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Advance made by such Issuing Bank shall be reduced by such amount on such Business Day.
          (d) . Each Issuing Bank shall furnish (A) to the Agent and each Appropriate Lender (with a copy to the Company) on the first Business Day of each month a written report summarizing Issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the preceding month and drawings during such month under all Letters of Credit and (B) to the Agent and each Appropriate Lender (with a copy to the Company) on the first Business Day of each calendar quarter a written report setting forth the average daily aggregate Available Amount during the preceding calendar quarter of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.
Letter of Credit Reports
          (e) . The failure of any Appropriate Lender to make the Advance to be made by it on the date specified in Section 2.03(c) shall not relieve any other Appropriate Lender of its obligation hereunder to make its Advance on such date, but no Appropriate Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Appropriate Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on such date.
Failure to Make Advances
          SECTION 2.04. . (a) . The Company agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee from the Effective Date in the case of each Initial Lender and from the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing December 31, 2011, and on the Termination Date applicable to each Lender at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time on the aggregate amount of such Lender's Unused Commitment plus its Ratable Share of the average daily outstanding Swing Line Advances under the applicable Facility during such quarter, that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any commitment fee for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Company shall not be required to pay such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender).
Fees
Commitment Fee
provided
          (b) . (i) Each Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of each Appropriate Lender a commission on such Lender's Ratable Share of the average daily aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued for the account of such Borrower and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances in effect from time to time during such calendar quarter, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the quarter ended December 31, 2011, and on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender; , that (x) to the extent that all or a portion of the Fronting Exposure in respect of any Defaulting Lender is reallocated to the Non-Defaulting Lenders pursuant to Section 2.20(a), such fees that would have accrued for the benefit of such Defaulting Lender will instead accrue for the benefit of and be payable to such Non-Defaulting Lenders, in accordance with their respective Revolving Credit Commitments under the applicable Facility, and (y) to the extent that all or any portion of such Fronting Exposure cannot be so reallocated, such fees will instead accrue for the benefit of and be payable to the respective Issuing Banks ratably according to the outstanding Letters of Credit issued by each Issuing Bank under such Facility.
Letter of Credit Fees
provided,
further
pro
rata
 
          (ii) Each Borrower shall pay to each Issuing Bank, for its own account, a fronting fee and such other commissions, issuance fees, transfer fees and other fees and charges in connection with the Issuance or administration of each Letter of Credit as such Borrower and such Issuing Bank shall agree.
          (c) . The Company shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed between the Company and the Agent.
Agent's Fees
          SECTION 2.05. . (a) The Company shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the Unused Commitments or the Unissued Letter of Credit Commitments of the Lenders under any Facility, that each partial reduction (x) shall be in the minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (y) shall be made ratably among the Appropriate Lenders in accordance with their Commitments with respect to such Facility.
Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
provided
          (b) The Company shall have the right, at any time, upon at least three Business Days' notice to a Defaulting Lender (with a copy to the Agent), to terminate in whole such Defaulting Lender's Commitment under this Section 2.05(b), the Borrowers will pay all principal of, and interest accrued to the date of such payment on, Advances owing to such Defaulting Lender and pay any accrued commitment fee payable to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.04(a) and all other amounts payable to such Defaulting Lender hereunder (including but not limited to any increased costs, additional interest or other amounts owing under Section 2.11, any indemnification for taxes under Section 2.14, and any compensation payments due as provided in Section 9.04(c); and upon such payments, the obligations of such Defaulting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged; , , that (i) such Defaulting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04 and its obligations under Section 9.04 shall survive such release and discharge as to matters occurring prior to such date and (ii) no claim that the Borrowers may have against such Defaulting Lender arising out of such Defaulting Lender's default hereunder shall be released or impaired in any way, The aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Appropriate Lenders once reduced pursuant this Section 2.05(b) may not be reinstated; , , , that if pursuant to this Section 2.05(b), the Borrowers shall pay to a Defaulting Lender any principal of, or interest accrued on, the Advances owing to such Defaulting Lender, then the Borrowers shall either (x) confirm to the Agent that the conditions set forth in Section 3.03(a) are met on and as of such date of payment or (y) pay or cause to be paid a ratable payment of principal and interest to all Appropriate Lenders who are not Defaulting Lenders.
provided
however
provided
further
however
          SECTION 2.06. . (a) . Each Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the ratable account of each Lender on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances made to it and then outstanding.
Repayment of Advances and Letter of Credit Drawings
Revolving Credit Advances
          (b) . The obligations of each Borrower under any Letter of Credit Agreement and any other agreement or instrument relating to any Letter of Credit issued for the account of such Borrower shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such Letter of Credit Agreement and such other agreement or instrument under all circumstances, including, without limitation, the following circumstances (it being understood that any such payment by such Borrower is without prejudice to, and does not constitute a waiver of, any rights such Borrower might have or might acquire as a result of the payment by any Lender of any draft or the reimbursement by such Borrower thereof):
Letter of Credit Drawings
 
     (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Note, any Letter of Credit Agreement, any Letter of Credit or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto (all of the foregoing being, collectively, the "");
L/C Related Documents
     (ii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the obligations of such Borrower in respect of any L/C Related Document or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from all or any of the L/C Related Documents;
     (iii) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right that such Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of a Letter of Credit (or any Persons for which any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any Issuing Bank, the Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with the transactions contemplated by the L/C Related Documents or any unrelated transaction;
     (iv) any statement or any other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect;
     (v) payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit;
     (vi) any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any guarantee, for all or any of the obligations of such Borrower in respect of the L/C Related Documents; or
     (vii) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including, without limitation, any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, such Borrower or a guarantor.
          (c) . Each Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the ratable account of the applicable Swing Line Bank and each Appropriate Lender which has made a Swing Line Advance the outstanding principal amount of each Swing Line Advance made to it by each of them on the earlier of the last day of the Interest Period specified in the applicable Notice of Swing Line Borrowing (which Interest Period shall end no later than five Business Days after the requested date of such Borrowing) and the Termination Date applicable to such Lender.
Swing Line Advances
          SECTION 2.07. . (a) . Each Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance made to it and owing to each Lender from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Advances
Scheduled Interest
     (i) . During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance is a Base Rate Advance and for each Tranche A Swing Line Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full or Swing Line Advance is paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
plus
     (ii) . During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance and for each Tranche B Swing Line Advance, a rate
Eurocurrency Rate Advances
 
per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period for such Advance (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time plus (x) Mandatory Cost, if any, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Advance shall be Converted or such Advance shall be paid in full.
plus
          (b) . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), the Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, require the Borrowers to pay interest ("") on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each overdue Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above; , , that following acceleration of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
provided
however
          SECTION 2.08. . (a) Each Reference Bank agrees, if requested by the Agent, to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurocurrency Rate or each EURIBO Rate. If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Company and the Appropriate Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate under Section 2.07(a)(ii).
Interest Rate Determination
          (b) If, with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances under any Facility, the Lenders owed at least 50% of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Facility notify the Agent that the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their Eurocurrency Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the applicable Borrower and the Appropriate Lenders, whereupon (i) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche A Facility, the Borrower of such Eurocurrency Rate Advances will, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) exchange such Advances into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances, (ii) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche B Facility or the Tranche C Facility, the Borrower of such Eurocurrency Rate Advances will, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor prepay such Advances and (iii) the obligation of the Appropriate Lenders to make, or to Convert Tranche A Revolving Credit Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Company and the Appropriate Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
          (c) If any Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify such Borrower and the Appropriate Lenders
 
and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (i) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche A Facility, (x) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (y) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche B Facility or the Tranche C Facility, shall be continued with an Interest Period of one month.
          (d) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than the Revolving Credit Borrowing Minimum, (i) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche A Facility, such Advances shall automatically (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche B Facility or the Tranche C Facility, shall be repaid at the end of the applicable Interest Period.
          (e) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance under the Tranche A Facility will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into Base Rate Advances, (ii) the obligation of the Tranche A Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended and (iii) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance under the Tranche B Facility or the Tranche C Facility shall not be continued with an Interest Period of longer than one month.
          (f) If Reuters LIBOR01 Page is unavailable and fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurocurrency Rate or EURIBO Rate, as the case may be, for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances after the Agent has requested such information,
     (i) the Agent shall forthwith notify the applicable Borrower and the Appropriate Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
     (ii) each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche A Facility, (1) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (2) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Currency, be prepaid by the applicable Borrower or be automatically exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance) and (B) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche B Facility or the Tranche C Facility, shall bear interest at the Overnight Rate, and
     (iii) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
          SECTION 2.09. . The Borrower of any Advance may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.08 and 2.12, Convert all Tranche A Revolving Credit
Optional Conversion of Tranche A Revolving Credit Advances
 
Advances denominated in Dollars of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Tranche A Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Dollars of the other Type; , , that any Conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances, any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(c), no Conversion of any Revolving Credit Advances shall result in more separate Revolving Credit Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(c) and each Conversion of Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be made ratably among the Tranche A Lenders in accordance with their Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitments. Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Dollar denominated Tranche A Revolving Credit Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower giving such notice.
provided
however
          SECTION 2.10. . (a) . Each Borrower may, upon notice at least two Business Days' prior to the date of such prepayment, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, and not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given such Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; , , that (x) each partial prepayment of Revolving Credit Advances shall be in an aggregate principal amount of not less than the Revolving Credit Borrowing Minimum or a Revolving Credit Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof, (y) each partial prepayment of Swing Line Advances shall in an aggregate principal amount of not less than $1,000,000, in the case of the Tranche A Swing Line Advance or 1,000,000, in the case of a Tranche B Swing Line Advance and (z) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, such Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Appropriate Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 9.04(c).
Prepayments of Advances
Optional
provided
however
          (b) . (i) If, on any date, the Agent notifies the Company that, on any interest payment date in respect of a Facility, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of all Advances plus the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding (in each case determined as the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such interest payment date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Advances and Letters of Credit denominated in Committed Currencies) then outstanding exceeds 103% of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Appropriate Lenders on such date, the Borrowers shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, prepay the outstanding principal amount of any Advances owing by the Borrowers in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such sum to an amount not to exceed 100% of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Appropriate Lenders on such date.
Mandatory
     (ii) Each prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.10(b) shall be made together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the principal amounts prepaid and, in the case of any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance on a date other than the last day of an Interest Period or at its maturity, any additional amounts which the applicable Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse to the Appropriate Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 9.04(c). The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b) to the Company and the Appropriate Lenders.
          SECTION 2.11. . (a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
Increased Costs Generally
 
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurocurrency Rate) or any Issuing Bank;
     (ii) subject any Recipient to any Taxes (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes, (B) Taxes described in clauses (b) through (d) of the definition of Excluded Taxes and (C) Connection Income Taxes) on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto; or
     (iii) impose on any Lender or any Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense (other than Taxes or compensated for by the payment of the Mandatory Cost) affecting this Agreement or Advances made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender or such other Recipient of making, converting to, continuing or maintaining any Advance or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Advance, or to increase the cost to such Lender, such Issuing Bank or such other Recipient of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon written request of such Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient, the Borrowers will pay to such Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
          (b) . If any Lender or Issuing Bank reasonably determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or Issuing Bank or any lending office of such Lender or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, regarding capital or liquidity requirements, has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Advances made by, or participations in Letters of Credit or Swing Line Advances held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by any Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrowers will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
          (c) . A certificate of a Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, and demonstrating in reasonable detail the calculations used, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrowers, shall be conclusive absent manifest error. In preparation of any certificate by a Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient under this subsection (c), such Person shall not be required to disclose any information that such Person reasonably deems to be confidential or proprietary. The Borrowers shall pay such Lender, Issuing Bank or Recipient, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
          (d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such
Delay in Requests
 
Lender's, Issuing Bank's or other Recipient's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrowers shall not be required to compensate a Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient pursuant to this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient, as the case may be, notifies the Borrowers of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions, and of such Lender's, Issuing Bank's or other Recipient's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
provided
          SECTION 2.12. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other Governmental Authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any Committed Currency or to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any Committed Currency hereunder, (a) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will automatically, upon such demand (i) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche A Facility (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Currency, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) in the case of Advances outstanding under the Tranche B Facility or the Tranche C Faculty, be prepaid and (b) the obligation of the Appropriate Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
Illegality
provided
however
          SECTION 2.13. . (a) Each Borrower shall make each payment hereunder (except with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency), irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set-off, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent at the applicable Agent's Account in same day funds. Each Borrower shall make each payment hereunder with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency, irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set-off, not later than 11:00 A.M. (at the Payment Office for such Committed Currency) on the day when due in such Committed Currency to the Agent, by deposit of such funds to the applicable Agent's Account in same day funds. The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest, fees or commissions ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.04(b), 2.11, 2.14 or 9.04(c)) to the Appropriate Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.18 or an extension of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.19 and upon the Agent's receipt of such Lender's Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date or Extension Date, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Assumption and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 9.07(c), from and after the effective date
Payments and Computations
 
specified in such Assignment and Assumption, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Assumption shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
          (b) All computations of interest based on clause (a) of the definition of Base Rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all other computations of interest and of fees and Letter of Credit commissions shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days (or, in each case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies where market practice differs, in accordance with market practice), in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest, fees or commissions are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
          (c) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest, fee or commission, as the case may be; , , that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurocurrency Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
          (d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from any Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent such Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at the higher of the Overnight Rate and the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charge by the Agent in connection with the foregoing.
          (e) To the extent that the Agent receives funds for application to the amounts owing by any Borrower under or in respect of this Agreement or any Note in currencies other than the currency or currencies required to enable the Agent to distribute funds to the Appropriate Lenders in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.13, the Agent shall be entitled to convert or exchange such funds into from one currency into another currency to the extent necessary to enable the Agent to distribute such funds in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.13; that each Borrower and each of the Lenders hereby agree that the Agent shall not be liable or responsible for any loss, cost or expense suffered by such Borrower or such Lender as a result of any conversion or exchange of currencies affected pursuant to this Section 2.13(e) or as a result of the failure of the Agent to effect any such conversion or exchange; and provided further that the Borrowers agree to indemnify the Agent and each Lender, and hold the Agent and each Lender harmless, for any and all losses, costs and expenses incurred by the Agent or any Lender for any conversion or exchange of currencies (or the failure to convert or exchange any currencies) in accordance with this Section 2.13(e).
provided
          SECTION 2.14. . (a) . For purposes of this Section 2.14, the term "Lender" includes any Issuing Bank.
Taxes
Issuing Bank
 
          (b) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of any Loan Party under any Loan Document shall be made without deduction or withholding for any Taxes, except as required by applicable law. If any applicable law (as determined in the good faith discretion of an applicable Withholding Agent) requires the deduction or withholding of any Tax from any such payment by a Withholding Agent, then the applicable Withholding Agent shall be entitled to make such deduction or withholding and shall timely pay the full amount deducted or withheld to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law and, if such Tax is an Indemnified Tax, then the sum payable by the applicable Loan Party shall be increased as necessary so that after such deduction or withholding has been made (including such deductions and withholdings applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the applicable Recipient receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deduction or withholding been made.
Payments Free of Taxes
          (c) . The Loan Parties shall timely pay to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law, or at the option of the Agent timely reimburse it for the payment of, any Other Taxes.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
          (d) . The Loan Parties shall jointly and severally indemnify each Recipient, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) payable or paid by such Recipient or required to be withheld or deducted from a payment to such Recipient and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Company by a Lender (with a copy to the Agent), or by the Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Borrower
          (e) . Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Agent, within 10 days after demand therefor, for (i) any Indemnified Taxes attributable to such Lender (but only to the extent that any Loan Party has not already indemnified the Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Loan Parties to do so), (ii) any Taxes attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with the provisions of Section 9.07(d) relating to the maintenance of a Participant Register and (iii) any Excluded Taxes attributable to such Lender, in each case, that are payable or paid by the Agent in connection with any Loan Document, and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to any Lender by the Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Each Lender hereby authorizes the Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under any Loan Document or otherwise payable by the Agent to the Lender from any other source against any amount due to the Agent under this paragraph (e).
Indemnification by the Lenders
          (f) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Taxes by any Loan Party to a Governmental Authority pursuant to this Section 2.14, such Loan Party shall deliver to the Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.
Evidence of Payments
          (g) . (i) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding Tax with respect to payments made under any Loan Document shall deliver to the Company and the Agent, at the time or times reasonably requested by the Company or the Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by the Company or the Agent as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In
Status of Lenders
 
addition, any Lender, if reasonably requested by the Company or the Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Company or the Agent as will enable the Company or the Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in Section 2.14(g)(ii)(A), (ii)(B) and (ii)(D) below) shall not be required if in the Lender's reasonable judgment such completion, execution or submission would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of such Lender.
     (ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that any Borrower is a U.S. Borrower,
     (A) any Lender that is a U.S. Person shall deliver to the Company and the Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Company or the Agent), executed originals of IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. federal backup withholding tax;
     (B) any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to the Company and the Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Company or the Agent), whichever of the following is applicable:
     (1) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (x) with respect to payments of interest under any Loan Document, executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "interest" article of such tax treaty and (y) with respect to any other applicable payments under any Loan Document, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of such tax treaty;
     (2) executed originals of IRS Form W-8ECI;
     (3) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit G-1 to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, a "10 percent shareholder" of the Company within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code (a "") and (y) executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN; or
U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
     (iii) to the extent a Foreign Lender is not the beneficial owner, as determined under U.S. federal income tax principles, executed originals of IRS Form W-8IMY, accompanied by IRS Form W-8ECI, IRS Form W-8BEN, a U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit G-2 or Exhibit G-3, IRS Form W-9, and/or other certification documents from each beneficial owner, as applicable; that if the Foreign Lender is a partnership and one
provided
 
or more direct or indirect partners of such Foreign Lender are claiming the portfolio interest exemption, such Foreign Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit G-4 on behalf of each such direct and indirect partner;
     (A) any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to the Company and the Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Company or the Agent), executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in U.S. federal withholding Tax, duly completed, together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Company or the Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made; and
     (B) if a payment made to a Lender under any Loan Document would be subject to U.S. federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Company and the Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Company or the Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Company or the Agent as may be necessary for the Company and the Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this clause (D), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
     Each Lender agrees that if any form or certification it previously delivered expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect, it shall update such form or certification or promptly notify the Company and the Agent in writing of its legal inability to do so.
          (h) . If any party determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified pursuant to this Section 2.14 (including by the payment of additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.14), it shall pay to the indemnifying party an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made under this Section with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses (including Taxes) of such indemnified party and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund). Such indemnifying party, upon the request of such indemnified party, shall repay to such indemnified party the amount paid over pursuant to this paragraph (h) (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) in the event that such indemnified party is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this paragraph (h), in no event will the indemnified party be required to pay any amount to an indemnifying party pursuant to this paragraph (h) the payment of which would place the indemnified party in a less favorable net after-Tax position than the indemnified party would have been in if the indemnification payments or additional amounts giving rise to such refund had never been paid. This paragraph shall not be construed to require any indemnified party to make available its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes that it deems confidential) to the indemnifying party or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
 
          SECTION 2.15. . If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Advances or other obligations hereunder resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of its Advances and accrued interest thereon or other such obligations greater than its pro rata share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Advances and such other obligations of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Advances and other amounts owing them; that
Sharing of Payments, Etc
provided
     (i) so long as the Advances shall not have become due and payable pursuant to Section 6.01, any excess payment received by any Appropriate Lender shall be shared on a pro rata basis only with other Appropriate Lenders;
     (ii) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
     (iii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by any Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender), or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Advances or participations in L/C Obligations to any assignee or participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply).
          Each Loan Party consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against each Loan Party rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of each Loan Party in the amount of such participation.
          SECTION 2.16. . (a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Advances. Each Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to such Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, such Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Lender.
Evidence of Debt
          (b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from such Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
 
          (c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of any Borrower under this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
however
          SECTION 2.17. . The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and each Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely for general corporate purposes of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries; that any Advances drawn by IFF Spain shall not be used to finance or refinance the purchase price or any costs relating to the acquisition of the shares of IFF Spain or shares of any company of the group of IFF Spain.
Use of Proceeds
provided
          SECTION 2.18. . (a) The Company may, at any time but in any event not more than once in any calendar year prior to the Termination Date, by notice to the Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitment under any Facility be increased by an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (each a "") to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled Termination Date then in effect (the "") as specified in the related notice to the Agent; , that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments at any time exceed $1,250,000,000 and (ii) on the date of any request by the Company for a Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.03 shall be satisfied.
Increase in the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
provided
however
          (b) The Agent shall promptly notify the Appropriate Lenders of a request by the Company for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Revolving Credit Commitments (the ""). Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "") shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Revolving Credit Commitment. If the Appropriate Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Revolving Credit Commitments under the applicable Facility by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Appropriate Lenders willing to participate therein in such amounts as are agreed between the Company and the Agent.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
          (c) Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Agent shall notify the Company as to the amount, if any, by which the Appropriate Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase. If the aggregate amount by which the Appropriate Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Company may extend offers to one or more Eligible Assignees to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Appropriate Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; , , that the Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $10,000,000 or more.
provided
however
          (d) On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.18(b) (each such Eligible Assignee, an "") shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the
Assuming Lender
 
Revolving Credit Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.18(b)) as of such Increase Date; , , that the Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
provided
however
     (i) (A) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company or the Executive Committee of such Board approving the Commitment Increase and the corresponding modifications to this Agreement and (B) an opinion of counsel for the Company (which may be in-house counsel), in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Agent;
     (ii) an assumption agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Agent (each an ""), duly executed by such Eligible Assignee, the Agent and the Company; and
Assumption Agreement
     (iii) confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Commitment in a writing reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Agent.
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in Section 3.03 and in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.18(d), the Agent shall notify the Appropriate Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) and the Company, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date. Each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the Increase Date, purchase at par that portion of outstanding Revolving Credit Advances of the other Appropriate Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Revolving Credit Advances to be funded and held on a pro rata basis by the Appropriate Lenders in accordance with their Ratable Shares.
          SECTION 2.19. . (a) . The Company may, by notice to the Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) not earlier than 60 days and not later than 45 days prior to the first and/or second anniversary of the Effective Date (the ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's Termination Date for an additional one year from the Termination Date; , , that on the date of any request by the Company for an extension of the Termination Date and on the related Extension Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.03 shall be satisfied.
Extension of Commitment Termination Date
Requests for Extension
Extension Date
provided
however
          (b) . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by written notice to the Agent given not later than 15 days later than the date of its receipt of such request (the ""), advise the Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (and each Lender that determines not to so extend its Termination Date (a "") shall notify the Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Notice Date) and any Lender that does not so advise the Agent on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree.
Lender Elections to Extend
Notice Date
Non-Extending Lender
          (c) . The Agent shall notify the Company of each Lender's determination under Section 2.19(b) within three Business Days after the Notice Date.
Notification by Agent
          (d) . The Company shall have the right on or before the Extension Date to replace each Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an "")
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
 
with the approval of the Agent and the Issuing Banks and the Swing Line Banks (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld), each of which Additional Commitment Lenders shall have entered into an Assumption Agreement pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective as of the Extension Date, undertake a Commitment (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to such Lender's Commitment hereunder on such date).
          (e) . If (and only if) the total of the Revolving Credit Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed so to extend their Termination Date and the additional Revolving Credit Commitments of the Additional Commitment Lenders shall be more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Extension Date, then, effective as of the Extension Date, the Termination Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling one year after the existing Termination Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Termination Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
Minimum Extension Requirement
          SECTION 2.20. . (a) If a Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, the following provisions shall apply:
Defaulting Lenders
     (i) so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, such Defaulting Lenders' Ratable Share of the L/C Obligations and Swing Line Advances under a Facility will, subject to the limitation in the first proviso below, automatically be reallocated (effective on the day such Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender) among the Non-Defaulting Lenders having a Revolving Credit Commitment under such Facility in accordance with their respective Revolving Credit Commitments under such Facility; that (A) the sum of each Non-Defaulting Lender's aggregate principal amount of Revolving Credit Advances and allocated share of the L/C Obligations and Swing Line Advances may not in any event exceed the Revolving Credit Commitment under the applicable Facility of such Non-Defaulting Lender as in effect at the time of such reallocation and (B) neither such reallocation nor any payment by a Non-Defaulting Lender pursuant thereto will constitute a waiver or release of any claim the Company, any other Borrower, the Agent, any Issuing Bank, any Swing Line Bank or any other Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender or cause such Defaulting Lender to be a Non-Defaulting Lender;
pro
rata
provided
     (ii) to the extent that any portion (the "") of the Defaulting Lender's share of the L/C Obligations and Swing Line Advances under a Facility cannot be so reallocated, whether by reason of the first proviso in clause (i) above or otherwise, the Borrowers will, not later than three Business Days after written demand by the Agent (at the direction of an Issuing Bank and/or a Swing Line Bank in respect of such Facility), (A) Cash Collateralize the obligations of the Borrowers in respect of such L/C Obligations or Swing Line Advances in an amount at least equal to the aggregate amount of the unreallocated portion of such L/C Obligations or Swing Line Advances, or (B) make other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Agent, each applicable Issuing Bank and each applicable Swing Line Bank, as the case may be, in their sole discretion to protect them against the risk of non-payment by such Defaulting Lender;
unreallocated portion
     (iii) any amount paid by the Borrowers or otherwise received by the Agent for the account of a Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether on account of principal, interest, fees, indemnity payments or other amounts) will not be paid or distributed to such Defaulting Lender, but will instead be retained by the Agent in a segregated non-interest bearing account until (subject to Section 2.20(c)) the termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments under the
 
applicable Facility and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and will be applied by the Agent, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to the making of payments from time to time in the following order of priority: to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent under this Agreement, to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to an Issuing Bank or a Swing Line Bank in respect of such Facility ( as to the respective amounts owing to each of them) under this Agreement, to the payment of post-default interest and then current interest due and payable to the Appropriate Lenders hereunder other than Defaulting Lenders, ratably among them in accordance with the amounts of such interest then due and payable to them, to the payment of fees then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders hereunder in respect of such Facility, ratably among them in accordance with the amounts of such fees then due and payable to them, to pay principal then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders hereunder in respect of such Facility ratably in accordance with the amounts thereof then due and payable to them, to the ratable payment of other amounts then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders, and after the termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments under such Facility and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrowers hereunder, to pay amounts owing under this Agreement to such Defaulting Lender or as a court of competent jurisdiction may otherwise direct. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post cash collateral pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto; and
first
second
pro
rata
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
seventh
     (iv) so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender in respect of the applicable Facility, the applicable Swing Line Banks shall not be required to fund any Swing Line Advance and the applicable Issuing Banks shall not be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure and the Defaulting Lender's then outstanding L/C Obligations will be 100% covered by the Commitments of the Non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Borrowers in accordance with Section 2.20(a)(ii), and participating interests in any newly made Swing Line Advance or any newly issued or increased Letter of Credit shall be allocated among Non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with Section 2.20(a)(ii) (and such Defaulting Lender shall not participate therein).
          (b) No Revolving Credit Commitment of any Lender shall be increased or otherwise affected, and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 2.20, performance by the Company of its obligations shall not be excused or otherwise modified as a result of the operation of this Section 2.20. The rights and remedies against a Defaulting Lender under this Section 2.20 are in addition to any other rights and remedies which the Company, any other Borrower, the Agent, any Issuing Bank, any Swing Line Bank or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
          (c) If the Company and the Agent agree in writing in their reasonable determination that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Revolving Credit Advances of the other Lenders in respect of the applicable Facility or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Revolving Credit Advances under such Facility and funded and held on a pro rata basis by the Appropriate Lenders in accordance with their Ratable Shares, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrowers while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the
provided
provided
further
 
affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from such Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
          SECTION 2.21. .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
          (a) . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11, or requires a Borrower to pay any Indemnified Taxes or additional amounts to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14, then such Lender shall (at the request of the Company) use reasonable efforts to designate a different Applicable Lending Office for funding or booking its Advances hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.11 or 2.14, as the case may be, in the future, and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Company hereby agrees to pay all reasonable and documented costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
          (b) . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11, or if a Borrower is required to pay any Indemnified Taxes or additional amounts to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14 and, in each case, such Lender has declined or is unable to designate a different Applicable Lending Office in accordance with Section 2.21(a), or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender or a Non-Consenting Lender, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 9.07), all of its interests, rights (other than its existing rights to payments pursuant to Section 2.11 or Section 2.14) and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an Eligible Assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that:
Replacement of Lenders
provided
     (i) the Company or the assignee assuming such obligations shall have paid to the Agent the assignment fee (if any) specified in Section 9.07;
     (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under Section 9.04(c)) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrowers (in the case of all other amounts);
     (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.11 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.14, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
     (iv) such assignment does not conflict with applicable law; and
     (v) in the case of any assignment resulting from a Lender becoming a Non-Consenting Lender, the applicable assignee shall have consented to the applicable amendment, waiver or consent.
 
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrowers to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
          SECTION 3.01. . Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which all of the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
     (a) The Company shall have notified the Agent as to the proposed Effective Date.
     (b) The Company shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent).
     (c) On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
     (i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
     (ii) No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
     (d) The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent:
     (i) The Notes to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16.
     (ii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors or other similar governing body of each Loan Party approving this Agreement and the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes, as applicable.
     (iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or comparable officer of each Loan Party certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Loan Party authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
     (iv) A favorable opinion of (A) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, LLP, counsel for the Company, (B) Heussen, local counsel for the Dutch Loan Parties, (C), Baker & McKenzie, local counsel for IFF Lux and (D) Garrigues, local counsel for IFF Spain, each in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
     (v) A favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent.
 
     (vi) For the case of IFF Spain, a copy of form PE-1, duly stamped by the Bank of Spain, granting a Financial Transaction Number () to the borrowings that may be made by IFF Spain under the Credit Agreement.
NOF
     (e) Each of the Lenders shall have received, at least two Business Days in advance of the Effective Date, all documentation and other information required by Governmental Authorities under applicable "know-your-customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including as required by the Patriot Act.
     (f) The Company shall have provided notice of termination of the commitments of the lenders and made arrangements satisfactory to the Agent to repay or prepay (substantially contemporaneously with the drawdown of the initial Advances hereunder) all of the obligations under, the Multicurrency Revolving Facility Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2005 (and as amended or otherwise modified through the date hereof), among the Company, the other borrowers parties thereto, the lenders parties thereto and Citibank International plc, as administrative agent. Each of the Lenders that is a party to such credit facility hereby waives, by execution of this Agreement, any notice required by said Credit Agreement relating to the termination of commitments thereunder.
          SECTION 3.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make an initial Advance to each Designated Subsidiary is subject to the receipt by the Agent on or before the date of such initial Advance of each of the following, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent:
Initial Advance to Each Designated Subsidiary
     (a) The Notes of such Designated Subsidiary to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16.
     (b) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors or other similar governing body of such Designated Subsidiary (with a certified English translation if the original thereof is not in English) approving this Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes, as applicable.
     (c) A certificate of a proper officer of such Designated Subsidiary certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Designated Subsidiary authorized to sign its Designation Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it and the other documents to be delivered by it hereunder.
     (d) A Designation Agreement duly executed by such Designated Subsidiary and the Company.
     (e) Favorable opinions of counsel (which may be in-house counsel) to such Designated Subsidiary in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Agent, and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
     (f) All documentation and other information reasonably requested by any Lender to satisfy the requirements of Governmental Authorities under applicable "know-your-customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including as required by the Patriot Act.
          SECTION 3.03. . The obligation of each Appropriate Lender and each Swing Line
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing, Issuance,Commitment Increase and Commitment Extension
 
Bank to make an Advance (other than (x) a Swing Line Advance made by a Lender pursuant to Section 2.02(b) or (y) an Advance made by any Issuing Bank or any Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) on the occasion of each Borrowing, the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue a Letter of Credit, each Commitment Increase and each extension of Commitments pursuant to Section 2.19 shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Borrowing, such issuance or the applicable Increase Date or Extension Date (as the case may be), the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing, Notice of Swing Line Borrowing, Notice of Issuance, request for Commitment Increase or request for Commitment extension and the acceptance by any Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing, such issuance or such Increase Date shall constitute a representation and warranty by such Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing, such issuance or such Increase Date or Extension Date such statements are true):
     (i) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except, in the case of Borrowings and issuances, the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct on and as of such date (except for those representations and warranties that specifically relate to a prior date, which shall have been correct on such prior date), before and after giving effect to such Borrowing, such issuance, such Commitment Increase or such Commitment extension and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and additionally, if such Borrowing or issuance shall have been requested by a Designated Subsidiary, the representations and warranties of such Designated Subsidiary contained in its Designation Agreement are correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing or such issuance, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing, such issuance, such Commitment Increase or such Commitment extension (except for those representations and warranties that specifically relate to a prior date, which shall have been correct on such prior date) and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and
     (ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing, such issuance, such Commitment Increase or such Commitment extension or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default.
          SECTION 3.04. . For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01 or 3.02, as the case may be, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Company, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date or the date of the initial Advance to the applicable Designated Subsidiary, as the case may be, specifying its objection thereto. The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the occurrence of the Effective Date and each date of initial Advance to a Designated Subsidiary, as applicable.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
          SECTION 4.01. . The Company represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
     (a) . Each Loan Party is duly organized or duly incorporated (as the case may be), validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or
Status
 
organization and in respect of IFF Lux, that it is in compliance with, in particular, the amended Luxembourg laws dated 10 August 1915 on commercial companies and 31 May 1999 on the domicile of companies.
     (b) . The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, are within such Loan Party's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not conflict with (i) such Loan Party's charter, by-laws or other constitutive documents or (ii) any law or any material contractual restriction, or to the knowledge of the Company, any other contractual restriction, binding on or affecting such Loan Party.
Power and Authority
     (c) . All Authorizations required (i) for the due execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party or (ii) (except for the requirement of registration of the Loan Documents and/or any other documents referred to therein as may be required by a Luxembourg court or an official Luxembourg authority, as the case may be, in the case of their production in court proceedings before a Luxembourg court or their submittal (either directly or by way of reference) as a legal title before an official Luxembourg authority) to make the Loan Documents to which it is a party admissible in evidence in its jurisdiction of incorporation have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect.
Validity and Admissibility in Evidence
     (d) . Each Loan Document once delivered will have been duly executed and delivered by the Loan Party party thereto and each Loan Document once delivered will be the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Loan Party party thereto enforceable against it in accordance with its terms to the extent that such enforceability may be limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and may be subject to the discretion of courts with respect to the granting of equitable remedies and to the power of courts to stay proceedings for the execution of judgments.
Binding Obligations
except
     (e) . The Consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the financial year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of the Company's auditors, and the Consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at September 30, 2011, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the nine months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Company, all copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects, subject, in the case of said balance sheet as at September 30, 2011, and said statements of income and cash flows for the nine months then ended, to year end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the period ended on such dates, all in accordance with GAAP consistently applied. Since December 31, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change except as disclosed in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011.
Financial Statements
     (f) . There is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries before any court,
No Proceedings Pending or Threatened
 
governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) except as disclosed in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011, could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of the Loan Documents or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby.
     (g) . No Loan Party is engaged in the business of extending and no Loan Party will extend credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of the United States Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System ("")), and no proceeds of any Advances or Letters of Credit will be used directly or indirectly to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock in violation of Regulation U.
Margin Stock Regulations
Regulation U
     (h) . No Loan Party is an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended or otherwise subject to regulation thereunder.
Investment Company
     (i) .
No Misleading Information
     (i) Any factual information taken as a whole and other than projected financial information and information of a general economic or industry nature provided by any of the Loan Parties or any of their Subsidiaries for the purposes of the Information Memorandum was true and accurate in all material respects as at the date it was provided or as at the date (if any) at which it is stated.
     (ii) Nothing has occurred or been omitted from the Information Memorandum and no information has been given or withheld that results in the information contained in the Information Memorandum being untrue or misleading in any material respect.
     (iii) All written information taken as a whole and other than projected financial information and information of a general economic or industry nature (other than the Information Memorandum taken as a whole and other than projected financial information and information of a general economic or industry nature) supplied by any of the Loan Parties or any of the Company's Subsidiaries to the Agent or any Lender is true, complete and accurate in all material respects as at the date it was given and is not misleading in any material respect.
     (j) . Each Dutch Loan Party is in compliance with the Dutch Financial Supervision Act () and any regulations issued pursuant thereto (including, but not limited to, the Policy Guidelines and Exemption Regulation).
Dutch Banking Act
Wet op het financieel toezicht
     (k) . No notice under Section 36 of the Tax Collection Act () has been given by any Subsidiaries of the Company incorporated in the Netherlands.
Tax Status
Invorderingswet 1990
     (l) . No Loan Party (i) is a person whose property or interest in property is blocked or subject to blocking pursuant to Section 1 of Executive Order 13224 of September 23, 2001 Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions With Persons Who
OFAC; Anti-Terrorism Laws
 
Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism (66 Fed. Reg. 49079 (2001)), (ii) engages in any dealings or transactions prohibited by Section 2 of such executive order, or is otherwise associated with any such person in any manner violative of such Section 2, or (iii) is a person on the list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons or subject to the limitations or prohibitions under any other U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control regulation or executive order. Each Loan Party is in compliance, in all material respects, with (x) the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, and each of the foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury Department (31 CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) and any other enabling legislation or executive order relating thereto, and (y) the Patriot Act. No part of the proceeds of the Advances will be used, directly or indirectly, for any payments to any governmental official or employee, political party, official of a political party, candidate for political office, or anyone else acting in an official capacity, in order to obtain, retain or direct business or obtain any improper advantage, in violation of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended.
          SECTION 5.01. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit is outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder:
Affirmative Covenants
     (a) . Each Loan Party shall promptly (i) obtain, comply with and do all that is necessary to maintain in full force and effect; and (ii) supply certified copies to the Agent of, any Authorization required under any law or regulation of its jurisdiction of incorporation to enable it to perform all of its payment and other material obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party and to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability or admissibility in evidence in its jurisdiction of incorporation of any Loan Document.
Authorization
     (b) . Each Loan Party shall comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA and Environmental Laws, except where (i) non-compliance would not, in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
Compliance with Laws
     (c) . Each Loan Party shall pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become overdue, (i) all material Taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its assets and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its assets; , , that no Loan Party nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained.
Taxes
provided
however
     (d) . Each Loan Party shall maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Loan Parties or such Subsidiary operates; ,, that each of the Loan Parties and its Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as other companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Loan Parties or such Subsidiary operates and to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
however
 
     (e) . Each Loan Party shall preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises, , , that each of the Loan Parties and its Subsidiaries may consummate any merger or consolidation permitted under Section 5.02(b) and that neither the Loan Parties nor any of their Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise if the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the relevant Loan Party or its Subsidiaries, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the relevant Loan Party or its Subsidiaries or the Lenders.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
     (f) . Each Loan Party shall keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Loan Parties and each such Subsidiary in accordance with, and to the extent required by, generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
     (g) . Each Loan Party shall maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
     (h) . The Company shall furnish to the Agent (which shall make available to the Lenders):
Reporting Requirements
     (i) as soon as available and in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes) by a financial officer of the Company as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect at such date and a certificate of a financial officer of the Company as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Company shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
     (ii) as soon as available and in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a copy of the annual audit report for such year for the Company and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other independent public accountants of comparable size and of international reputation (which opinion shall be unqualified as to going concern and scope of audit) and a certificate of a financial officer of the Company as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Company shall also
provided
 
provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
     (iii) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of an officer of the Company setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Company has taken or proposes to take with respect thereto;
     (iv) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all material reports that the Company sends to any of its securityholders, and copies of all material reports and registration statements that the Company or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange;
     (v) promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all material actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and
     (vi) such other information respecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
Reports and financial statements required to be delivered by the Loan Parties pursuant to paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iv) of this Section 5.01(h) shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which the Company posts such reports, or reports containing such financial statements, on its website on the Internet at or is made publicly available on the United States Securities and Exchange Commission's EDGAR database that the Loan Parties notify the Agent that such reports have been posted and that such web site is accessible by the Agent and the Lenders; and that paper copies of the reports and financial statements referred to in Sections 5.01(h)(i), (ii) and (iv) shall be delivered by the Loan Parties to the Agent or any Lender who requests it to deliver such paper copies until written notice to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Agent or such Lender; and that in every instance the Loan Parties shall provide paper copies of the certificates or opinions required by Sections 5.01(h)(i) and (ii) to the Agent and each of the Lenders until such time as the Agent shall provide any of them written notice otherwise.
www.iff.com
provided
provided
further
provided
further
     (i) . Each Loan Party shall, at any reasonable time and from time to time, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, such Loan Party and any of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of such Loan Party and any of its Subsidiaries with any of their officers or directors and with their independent certified public accountants. Unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Agent and the Lenders shall be limited to one visit in any year, to be coordinated through the Agent.
Visitation Rights
          SECTION 5.02. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit is outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder:
Negative Covenants
     (a) . No Loan Party shall create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
Liens, Etc
 
     (i) Permitted Liens;
     (ii) purchase money Liens upon or in any real property or equipment acquired or held by the Company or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such real property or equipment or to secure Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such real property or equipment, or Liens existing on such real property or equipment at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred to finance the acquisition of such real property) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, , , that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any assets of any character other than the real property or equipment being acquired, and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any assets not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced, that the aggregate principal amount of the indebtedness secured by the Lien referred to in this paragraph (ii) shall not exceed $75,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency or currencies) at any time outstanding;
provided
however
provided
further
     (iii) Liens on assets of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company or becomes a Subsidiary of the Company; such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Company or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Company or such Subsidiary;
provided
that
     (iv) other Liens securing Debt in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $175,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency or currencies) at any time outstanding;
     (v) the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by paragraph (iii) above, such replacement, extension or renewal shall not extend to or cover any assets not subject to the Lien being replaced, extended or renewed and that the grantor of the Lien as obligor of the relevant Debt shall not change and the amount of the Debt secured thereby shall not increase as a result of such replacement, extension or renewal;
provided
that
provided
further
     (vi) any Liens or pledges for the benefit of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries arising by reason of deposits to qualify the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to maintain self-insurance;
     (vii) any Lien with respect to judgments and attachments that do not result in an Event of Default; and
     (viii) Liens existing on the date of this Agreement granted by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and securing Debt or other obligations outstanding on the date of this Agreement, as set forth on Schedule 5.02(a).
     (b) . No Loan Party shall merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of the assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so, except that:
Mergers, Etc
 
     (i) any Subsidiary of the Company may merge or consolidate with or into, or dispose of assets to, any other Subsidiary of the Company;
     (ii) any Subsidiary of the Company may merge into or dispose of assets to the Company;
     (iii) the liquidation or reorganization of any Subsidiary of the Company which is not a Loan Party is permitted so long as any payments or assets distributed as a result of such liquidation or reorganization are distributed to the Company or its Subsidiaries;
     (iv) each of the Loan Parties may merge with any other Person organized under the laws of the same country of organization as such Loan Party so long as the surviving corporation has the obligations expressed to be assumed by the relevant Loan Party hereunder and legal opinions in form and content reasonably satisfactory to the Agent have been delivered to it, that the Company shall provide not less than five Business Days notice of any such merger, and if such merger obligates the Agent or any Lender to comply with "know your customer" or similar identification procedures in circumstances where the necessary information is not already available to it, the Company shall, promptly upon the request of the Agent or any Lender, supply such documentation and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lender in order for the Agent or such Lender to carry out and be satisfied it has complied with the results of all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations; and
provided
     (v) a Loan Party may dispose of an asset to a Person which is not the Company or any of its Subsidiaries on terms that such asset is to be reacquired by a member of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (a "") provided that the principal obligations of Company or such Subsidiary, when aggregated with the principal obligations of Company or any of its Subsidiaries in respect of all other Reacquisition Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into after the date hereof, do not exceed US$75,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency or currencies),
Reacquisition Sale and Leaseback Transaction
     , in each case, that no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom.
provided
     (c) . No Loan Party shall make or permit, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by GAAP.
Accounting Changes
     (d) . No Loan Party shall make, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make, any material change in the nature of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as carried on at the date hereof.
Change in Nature of Business
     (e) . No Loan Party shall permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Debt other than:
Subsidiary Debt
     (i) Debt owed to the Company or to a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company;
 
     (ii) Debt (not falling within paragraphs (i), (iii), (v) and (vi) of this Section 5.02(e) but including Debt falling within paragraph (iv) of this Section 5.02(e)) aggregating for all of the Company's Subsidiaries not more than $800,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency or currencies) at any one time outstanding;
     (iii) endorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection or similar transactions in the ordinary course of business;
     (iv) Debt owed pursuant to the Loan Documents;
     (v) Debt which is effectively subordinated to the payment obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders hereunder to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agent;
     (vi) Debt under any Hedge Agreements entered into with any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender for the purpose of hedging risks associated with the Company and its Subsidiaries' operations (including, without limitation, interest rate and foreign exchange and commodities price risks) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and not for speculative purposes; and
     (vii) Debt arising as a result of a Subsidiary of the Company entering into a Reacquisition Sale and Leaseback Transaction that the principal obligations of such Subsidiary, when aggregated with the principal obligations of the Company and all other Subsidiaries of the Company in respect of all other Reacquisition Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into after the date hereof, do not exceed US$75,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency or currencies).
provided
          SECTION 5.03. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit is outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Company shall maintain a ratio of Net Debt as of the end of any Relevant Period to Consolidated EBITDA in respect of such Relevant Period of not more than 3.25 to 1.0.
Financial Covenant
          SECTION 6.01. . If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
     (a) . The Company or any other Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or the Company or any other Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
Non-payment
     (b) . Any representation or warranty made by any Borrower herein or by any Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with any Loan Document or by any Designated Subsidiary in the Designation Agreement pursuant to which such Designated Subsidiary became a Borrower hereunder shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
Misrepresentation
 
     (c) . (i) The Company shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(e), 5.01(h)(iii), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) the Company shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Company by the Agent or any Lender; or
Other Obligations
     (d) . (i) The Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal or notional amount of at least $75,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder or with respect to Hedge Agreements) of the Company or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof, or (ii) the occurrence under any Hedge Agreement of an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Hedge Agreement) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Hedge Agreement as to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Hedge Agreement) or (B) any Termination Event (as defined in such Hedge Agreement) as to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is an Affected Party (as defined in such Hedge Agreement) and, in either event, the termination value with respect to any such Hedge Agreement owed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as a result thereof is greater than $10,000,000 and such Person fails to pay such termination value when due after applicable grace periods; or
Cross Default
     (e) . The Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) generally not pay its debts as such debts become due (which in the case of a Luxembourg entity, and without prejudice to the provisions set out in this paragraph, means that such Luxembourg entity is or is deemed to be in a state of cessation of payments (cessation de payments) and has lost its commercial creditworthiness ()), (ii) admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, (iii) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (iv) any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors (such as, in particular, under Luxembourg law, a "", "", "" or a ""), or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); , , that no Event of Default will occur under this subsection (e) if the events or circumstances referred to in paragraphs (i) through (iv) above apply only to a Subsidiary or
Insolvency
ebranlement de credit
faillite
gestion contrle
concordat prventif de la faillite
liquidation judiciaire
provided
however
 
Subsidiaries of the Company which is or are not Borrowers unless: (x) the aggregate amount of the consolidated assets of each Subsidiary of the Company which is the subject of any event or circumstance, when aggregated with the consolidated assets of each other Subsidiary of the Company which is the subject of any such event or circumstance, is equal to or greater than 7.5% of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (y) the aggregate amount of the consolidated net sales of each Subsidiary of the Company which is the subject of any such event or circumstance, when aggregated with the consolidated net sales of each other Subsidiary of the Company which is the subject of any such event or circumstance, is equal to or greater than 7.5% of the consolidated net sales of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and for purposes of paragraphs (x) and (y) above, the consolidated assets and consolidated net sales of any Subsidiary of the Company shall be determined by reference to the most recent financial year of the Company and the most recent set of annual audited accounts of the relevant Subsidiary of the Company, if any (which, in the case of the consolidated assets and consolidated net sales of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, shall mean the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) or the most recent set of financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(h), whichever has been most recently delivered to the Agent hereunder) in the absence of any such accounts in relation to any Subsidiary of the Company the figures for consolidated assets and consolidated net sales of such Subsidiary shall be determined by such Subsidiary's auditors; or
provided
that
     (f) . Judgments or court orders for the payment of money in excess of $75,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or court order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which such judgment or court order shall not have been satisfied, vacated or stayed by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise; , , that any such judgment or court order shall not be an Event of Default under this subsection (f) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or court order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least "A-" by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or court order; or
Judgments
provided
however
     (g) . (i) Any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Company (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing 35% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Company; or (ii) during any period of up to 24 consecutive months, commencing after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were directors of the Company (together with any successors appointed, nominated or elected by such directors in the ordinary course) shall cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Company; or
Change of Control or Ownership
     (h) . The Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall incur, or shall be reasonably likely to incur, liability in excess of $75,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of one or more of the following: (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization or termination of a Multiemployer Plan; or
ERISA
 
     (i) so long as any Subsidiary of the Company is a Borrower, any provision of Article VII shall for any reason cease to be valid and binding on or enforceable against the Company, or the Company shall so state in writing;
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by written notice to the Borrowers, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances to be made by a Lender pursuant to Section 2.02(b) to fund its participation in outstanding Swing Line Advances or by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c) in respect of drawings under outstanding Letters of Credit) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by written notice to the Borrowers, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Borrower; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Company or any other Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances to be made by a Lender pursuant to Section 2.02(b) to fund its participation in outstanding Swing Line Advances or by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c) in respect of drawings under outstanding Letters of Credit) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Borrower.
provided
however
          SECTION 6.02. . If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Agent may with the consent, or shall at the request, of the Required Lenders, irrespective of whether it is taking any of the actions described in Section 6.01 or otherwise, make written demand upon the Borrowers to, and forthwith upon such demand the Borrowers will, (a) pay to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders in same day funds at the Agent's office designated in such demand, for deposit in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding or (b) make such other arrangements in respect of the outstanding Letters of Credit as shall be acceptable to the Required Lenders and not more disadvantageous to the Borrowers than clause (a); , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit shall be immediately due and payable to the Agent for the account of the Lenders without notice to or demand upon the Borrowers, which are expressly waived by each Borrower, to be held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account. If at any time an Event of Default is continuing the Agent reasonably determines that any funds held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account are subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Agent and the Lenders or that the total amount of such funds is less than the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit, the Borrowers will, forthwith upon written demand by the Agent, pay to the Agent, as additional funds to be deposited and held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the excess of (a) such aggregate Available Amount over (b) the total amount of funds, if any, then held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account that the Agent reasonably determines to be free and clear of any such right and claim. Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit, to the extent funds are on deposit in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, such funds shall be applied to reimburse the Issuing Banks to the extent permitted by applicable law. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon and all other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and under the Notes shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in such L/C Cash Deposit Account shall be promptly returned to the Borrowers.
Actions in Respect of the Letters of Credit upon Default
provided
however
 
          SECTION 7.01. . The Company hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at scheduled maturity or on any date of a required prepayment or by acceleration, demand or otherwise, of all obligations of each other Borrower now or hereafter existing under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes (including, without limitation, any extensions, modifications, substitutions, amendments or renewals of any or all of the foregoing obligations), whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, and whether for principal, interest, premiums, fees, indemnities, contract causes of action, costs, expenses or otherwise (such obligations being the ""), and agrees to pay any and all expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable and documented fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by the Agent or any Lender in enforcing any rights under this Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company's liability shall extend to all amounts that constitute part of the Guaranteed Obligations and would be owed by any Borrower to the Agent or any Lender under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving such Borrower.
Unconditional Guaranty
Guaranteed Obligations
          SECTION 7.02. . The Company guarantees that the Guaranteed Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of the Agent or any Lender with respect thereto. The obligations of the Company under or in respect of this Guaranty are independent of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any other Borrower under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes, and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against the Company to enforce this Guaranty, irrespective of whether any action is brought against any Borrower or whether any Borrower is joined in any such action or actions. The liability of the Company under this Guaranty shall be irrevocable, absolute and unconditional irrespective of, and the Company hereby irrevocably waives any defenses it may now have or hereafter acquire in any way relating to, any or all of the following:
Guaranty Absolute
     (a) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Note or any agreement or instrument relating thereto;
     (b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any Borrower under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from this Agreement or any Note, including, without limitation, any increase in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from the extension of additional credit to any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or otherwise;
     (c) any taking, exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any taking, release or amendment or waiver of, or consent to departure from, any other guaranty, for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations;
     (d) any manner of application of any collateral, or proceeds thereof, to all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any manner of sale or other disposition of any collateral for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any Borrower under this Agreement and the Notes or any other assets of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
 
     (e) any change, restructuring or termination of the corporate structure or existence of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
     (f) any failure of the Agent or any Lender to disclose to the Company any information relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any Borrower now or hereafter known to the Agent or such Lender (the Company waiving any duty on the part of the Agent and the Lenders to disclose such information);
     (g) the failure of any other Person to execute or deliver this Guaranty or any other guaranty or agreement or the release or reduction of liability of the Company or other guarantor or surety with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations; or
     (h) any other circumstance (including, without limitation, any statute of limitations) or any existence of or reliance on any representation by the Agent or any Lender that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, any Borrower or any other guarantor or surety.
This Guaranty shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Guaranteed Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the Agent or any Lender or any other Person upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Borrower or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
          SECTION 7.03. . (a) The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives promptness, diligence, notice of acceptance, presentment, demand for performance, notice of nonperformance, default, acceleration, protest or dishonor and any other notice with respect to any of the Guaranteed Obligations and this Guaranty and any requirement that the Agent or any Lender protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien or any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against any Borrower or any other Person or any collateral.
Waivers and Acknowledgments
          (b) The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any right to revoke this Guaranty and acknowledges that this Guaranty is continuing in nature and applies to all Guaranteed Obligations, whether existing now or in the future.
          (c) The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives (i) any defense arising by reason of any claim or defense based upon an election of remedies by the Agent or any Lender that in any manner impairs, reduces, releases or otherwise adversely affects the subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification rights of the Company or other rights of the Company to proceed against any Borrower, any other guarantor or any other Person or any collateral and (ii) any defense based on any right of set-off or counterclaim against or in respect of the obligations of the Company hereunder.
          (d) The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any duty on the part of the Agent or any Lender to disclose to the Company any matter, fact or thing relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries now or hereafter known by the Agent or such Lender.
          (e) The Company acknowledges that it will receive substantial direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by this Agreement and the Notes and that the waivers set forth in Section 7.02 and this Section 7.03 are knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
 
          SECTION 7.04. . The Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agrees not to exercise any rights that it may now have or hereafter acquire against any Borrower or any other insider guarantor that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Company's obligations under or in respect of this Guaranty, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of the Agent or any Lender against any Borrower or any other insider guarantor or any collateral, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from any Borrower or any other insider guarantor, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim, remedy or right, unless and until all of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty shall have been paid in full in cash, all Letters of Credit shall have expired or been terminated and the Commitments shall have expired or been terminated. If any amount shall be paid to the Company in violation of the immediately preceding sentence at any time prior to the latest of (a) the payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty, (b) the Termination Date and (c) the latest date of expiration or termination of all Letters of Credit, such amount shall be received and held in trust for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, shall be segregated from other property and funds of the Company and shall forthwith be paid or delivered to the Agent in the same form as so received (with any necessary endorsement or assignment) to be credited and applied to the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes, or to be held as collateral for any Guaranteed Obligations or other amounts payable under this Guaranty thereafter arising. If (i) the Company shall make payment to the Agent or any Lender of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, (ii) all of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty shall have been paid in full in cash, (iii) the Termination Date shall have occurred and (iv) all Letters of Credit shall have expired or been terminated, the Agent and the Lenders will, at the Company's request and expense, execute and deliver to the Company appropriate documents, without recourse and without representation or warranty, necessary to evidence the transfer by subrogation to the Company of an interest in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from such payment made by the Company pursuant to this Guaranty.
Subrogation
          SECTION 7.05. . The Company hereby subordinates any and all debts, liabilities and other obligations owed to the Company by any Borrower (the "") to the Guaranteed Obligations to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth in this Section 7.05:
Subordination
Subordinated Obligations
     (a) . Except during the continuance of an Event of Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower), the Company may receive regularly scheduled payments from such Borrower on account of the Subordinated Obligations. After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower), however, unless the Required Lenders otherwise agree, the Company shall not demand, accept or take any action to collect any payment on account of the Subordinated Obligations.
Prohibited Payments, Etc
     (b) . In any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower, the Company agrees that the Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to receive payment in full in cash of all Guaranteed Obligations (including all interest and expenses accruing after the commencement of a proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law, whether or not constituting an allowed claim in such proceeding ("")) before the Company receives payment of any Subordinated Obligations.
Prior Payment of Guaranteed Obligations
Post Petition Interest
 
     (c) . After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower), the Company shall, if the Agent so requests, collect, enforce and receive payments on account of the Subordinated Obligations as trustee for the Agent and the Lenders and deliver such payments to the Agent on account of the Guaranteed Obligations (including all Post Petition Interest), together with any necessary endorsements or other instruments of transfer, but without reducing or affecting in any manner the liability of the Company under the other provisions of this Guaranty.
Turn-Over
     (d) . After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower), the Agent is authorized and empowered (but without any obligation to so do), in its discretion, (i) in the name of the Company, to collect and enforce, and to submit claims in respect of, Subordinated Obligations and to apply any amounts received thereon to the Guaranteed Obligations (including any and all Post Petition Interest), and (ii) to require the Company (A) to collect and enforce, and to submit claims in respect of, Subordinated Obligations and (B) to pay any amounts received on such obligations to the Agent for application to the Guaranteed Obligations (including any and all Post Petition Interest).
Agent Authorization
          SECTION 7.06. . This Guaranty is a continuing guaranty and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until the latest of (i) the payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty, (ii) the Termination Date and (iii) the latest date of expiration or termination of all Letters of Credit, (b) be binding upon the Company, its successors and assigns and (c) inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Agent and the Lenders and their successors, transferees and assigns. Without limiting the generality of clause (c) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Agent or any Lender may assign or otherwise transfer all or any portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or any portion of its Commitments, the Advances owing to it and the Note or Notes held by it) to any other Person, and such other Person shall thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect thereof granted to the Agent or such Lender herein or otherwise, in each case as and to the extent provided in Section 9.07.
Continuing Guaranty; Assignments
          SECTION 8.01. . Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereby irrevocably appoints Citibank to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, and neither the Company nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third-party beneficiary of any of such provisions. It is understood and agreed that the use of the term "agent" herein or in any other Loan Documents (or any other similar term) with reference to the Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law. Instead such term is used as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between contracting parties.
Appointment and Authority
          SECTION 8.02. . (a) The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent
Rights as a Lender
 
hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, own securities of, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for, and generally engage in any kind of business with, any Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
          SECTION 8.03. . (a) The Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, and its duties hereunder shall be administrative in nature. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:
Exculpatory Provisions
     (i) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (ii) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents); that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law, including for the avoidance of doubt any action that may be in violation of the automatic stay under any Debtor Relief Law or that may effect a forfeiture, modification or termination of property of a Defaulting Lender in violation of any Debtor Relief Law; and
provided
     (iii) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
          (b) The Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 9.01 and 6.01), or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment. The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Agent in writing by a Borrower, a Lender or an Issuing Bank.
          (c) The Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
          (d) Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall require the Agent or any of its Related Parties to carry out any "know your customer" or other checks in relation to any person on behalf of any Lender and each Lender confirms to the Agent that it is solely responsible for any such checks it is required to carry out and that it may not rely on any statement in relation to such checks made by the Agent or any of its Related Parties.
 
          SECTION 8.04. . The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Advance, or the issuance, extension, renewal or increase of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or an Issuing Bank, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or Issuing Bank unless the Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or Issuing Bank prior to the making of such Advance or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company or any other Loan Party), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Agent
          SECTION 8.05. . The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent. The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the Facilities as well as activities as Agent. The Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any sub-agents except to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction determines in a final and nonappealable judgment that the Agent acted with gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct in the selection of such sub-agents.
Delegation of Duties
          SECTION 8.06. . (a) The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the Issuing Banks, the Company and the other Borrowers. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with and subject, so long as no Event of Default is continuing, to the approval of the Company (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States and the United Kingdom, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States and the United Kingdom. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then the retiring Agent may (but shall not be obligated to), on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above. Whether or not a successor has been appointed, such resignation shall become effective in accordance with such notice on the Resignation Effective Date.
Resignation of Agent
Resignation Effective Date
          (b) If the Person serving as Agent is a Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (v) of the definition thereof, the Required Lenders may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, by notice in writing to the Borrowers and such Person remove such Person as Agent and, in consultation with and subject, so long as no Event of Default is continuing, to the approval of the Company (such approval not to be unreasonable withheld or delayed), appoint a successor. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then such removal shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice on the Removal Effective Date.
Removal Effective Date
 
          (c) With effect from the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date (as applicable) (1) the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Agent on behalf of the Lenders or the Issuing Banks under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring or removed Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Agent is appointed) and (2) except for any indemnity payments owed to the retiring or removed Agent, all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and Issuing Bank directly, until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring or removed Agent (other than any rights to indemnity payments owed to the retiring or removed Agent), and the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents. The fees payable by the Borrowers to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrowers and such successor. After the retiring or removed Agent's resignation or removal hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring or removed Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring or removed Agent was acting as Agent.
          (d) Any resignation pursuant to this Section by a Person acting as Agent shall, unless such Person shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders otherwise, also act to relieve such Person and its Affiliates of any obligation to advance or issue new, or extend existing, Swing Line Advances or Letters of Credit where such advance, issuance or extension is to occur on or after the effective date of such resignation. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, (i) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Issuing Bank and Swing Line Bank, (ii) the retiring Issuing Bank and Swing Line Bank shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, (iii) the successor Swing Line Bank shall enter into an Assignment and Assumption and acquire from the retiring Swing Line Bank each outstanding Swing Line Advance of such retiring Swing Line Bank for a purchase price equal to par plus accrued interest and (iv) the successor Issuing Bank shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangement satisfactory to the retiring Issuing Bank to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring Issuing Bank with respect to such Letters of Credit.
          SECTION 8.07. . Each Lender and Issuing Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and Issuing Bank also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders
          SECTION 8.08. . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Bookrunners, Arrangers, syndication agent or documentation agent listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Agent, a Lender or an Issuing Bank hereunder.
No Other Duties, etc
 
          SECTION 9.01. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, nor consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by (a) all the Lenders, do any of the following: (i) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (ii) change the definition of "Required Lenders" or the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, (iii) release the Company from any of its obligations under Article VII, (iv) change Section 2.15 in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby or (v) amend this Section 9.01; or (b) each Lender directly affected thereby, do any of the following: (i) increase the Commitments of the Lenders other than in accordance with Section 2.18, (ii) reduce the principal of, or rate of interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or (iii) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder other than in accordance with Section 2.19; and that (x) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note, (y) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each Swing Line Bank, in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or obligations of such Swing Line Bank under this Agreement, and (z) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each Issuing Bank in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, adversely affect the rights or obligations of such Issuing Bank in its capacity as such under this Agreement.
Amendments, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
          SECTION 9.02. . (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows:
Notices, Etc
Notices Generally
     (i) if to the Company or any other Loan Party, to it at 512 W. 57th Street, New York, New York, 10019, Attention of Treasurer (Facsimile No. (212) 708-7130; Telephone No. (212) 708-7173; E-mail: Robert.Anderson@iff.com);
     (ii) if to the Agent, to Citibank, N.A. at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware, 19720, Attention of Bank Loan Syndications (Facsimile No. (212) 994-0961; Telephone No. (302) 894-6010);
     (iii) if to the Sub-Agent, to Citibank International plc at 5th Floor CGC2, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5LB, Attention of European Loans Agency Office, Capital Markets and Banking Operations (Facsimile No. 44 (0) 208636 3824; Telephone No.: 44 (0) 207500 4245);
     (iv) if any Issuing Bank, to it at the address provided in writing to the Agent and the Company at the time of its appointment as an Issuing Bank hereunder;
     (v) if to a Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number or e-mail) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
 
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications, to the extent provided in paragraph (b) below, shall be effective as provided in said paragraph (b).
          (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to Article II if such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, has notified the Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
provided
          Unless the Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient, at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i), of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor; that, for both clauses (i) and (ii) above, if such notice, email or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient.
provided
          (c) . Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address, etc
          (d) .
Platform
     (i) Each Loan Party agrees that the Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the Communications (as defined below) available to the Issuing Banks and the other Lenders by posting the Communications on Debt Domain, Intralinks, Syndtrak or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").
Platform
     (ii) The Platform is provided "as is" and "as available." The Agent Parties (as defined below) do not warrant the adequacy of the Platform and expressly disclaim liability for errors or omissions in the Communications. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third-party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by any Agent Party in connection with the Communications or the Platform. In no event shall the Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Company or the other Loan Parties, any Lender or any other Person or entity for damages of any kind, including, without limitation, direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, losses or expenses (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Company's or the Agent's transmission of communications through the Platform. "" means, collectively, any notice, demand, communication, information, document or other material provided by or on behalf of any Loan Party pursuant to any Loan Document or the transactions
Agent Parties
Communications
 
contemplated therein which is distributed to the Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank by means of electronic communications pursuant to this Section, including through the Platform.
          SECTION 9.03. . No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
          SECTION 9.04. . (a) . The Company shall pay upon demand and presentation of a statement of account (i) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements of one New York counsel for the Agent, and one local counsel to the Agent in each relevant jurisdiction) in connection with the syndication of the Facilities, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof, (ii) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder, and (iii) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank (including the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements any counsel for the Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank) in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section 9.04(a), or (B) in connection with the Advances made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Advances or Letters of Credit.
Costs and Expenses
Costs and Expenses
          (b) . The Company shall indemnify the Agent, the Sub-Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee but excluding loss of anticipated profits, business or anticipated savings), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any Person other than such Indemnitee and its Related Parties arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (ii) any Advance or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by any Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Action related in any way to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that any such indemnity as provided in this Section 9.04(b) shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee. This Section 9.04(b) shall not apply with respect to Taxes other than any Taxes that represent losses, claims, damages, etc. arising from any non-Tax claim.
Indemnification by the Company
Indemnitee
provided
 
          (c) . If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurocurrency Rate Advance is made by any Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance as a result of a payment or Conversion, acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 9.07 as a result of a demand by the Company pursuant to Section 2.21(b), or if any Borrower fails to make any payment or prepayment of an Advance for which a notice of prepayment has been given or that is otherwise required to be made, the applicable Borrower shall, upon written demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it reasonably incurs as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
Breakage Indemnity
          (d) . To the extent that the Company for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Agent, the Sub-Agent, any Issuing Bank, any Swing Line Bank or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Agent, the Sub-Agent, such Issuing Bank, such Swing Line Bank or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's pro rata share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought based on each Lender's share of the Total Credit Exposure at such time) of such unpaid amount (including any such unpaid amount in respect of a claim asserted by such Lender); that with respect to such unpaid amounts owed to any Issuing Bank or Swing Line Bank solely in its capacity as such, only the Revolving Lenders shall be required to pay such unpaid amounts, such payment to be made severally among them based on such Revolving Lenders' pro rata share of the Tranche A Revolving Credit Commitment or Tranche B Revolving Credit Commitment, as appropriate (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought); , , that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Agent, the Sub-Agent, such Issuing Bank or such Swing Line Bank in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Agent, the Sub-Agent, such Issuing Bank or any such Swing Line Bank in connection with such capacity; , , that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses to the extent they are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of the Agent, the Sub-Agent, such Issuing Bank or such Swing Line Bank, as applicable. The obligations of the Lenders under this paragraph (c) are several, and the failure of any Lender to perform its obligations under this paragraph (c) shall not affect any other Lender's obligations under this paragraph nor shall any Lender be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to perform its obligations under this paragraph.
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
provided
further
provided
further
          (e)  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no party hereto shall assert, and each hereby waives, any claim against any other party hereto, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages, including without limitation, any loss of profits, business or anticipated savings (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Advance or Letter of Credit, or the use of the proceeds thereof. No party hereto shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
 
          (f) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
Payments
          (g) . Each party's obligations under Section 2.11, Section 2.14 and this Section shall survive the termination of the Loan Documents and payment of the obligations hereunder.
Survival
          SECTION 9.05. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, each Issuing Bank, and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and subject to exceptions of mandatory law in the country of incorporation of each Borrower, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held, and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing, by such Lender, such Issuing Bank or any such Affiliate, to or for the credit or the account of the Company or any other Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of the Company or such Loan Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or such Issuing Bank or their respective Affiliates, irrespective of whether or not such Lender, Issuing Bank or Affiliate shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Company or such Loan Party may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch, office or Affiliate of such Lender or such Issuing Bank different from the branch, office or Affiliate holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness; that in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.20 and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Agent, the Issuing Banks, and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff. The rights of each Lender, each Issuing Bank and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, such Issuing Bank or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and Issuing Bank agrees to notify the Company and the Agent promptly after any such setoff and application; that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
Right of Set-off
provided
provided
          SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement shall become effective (other than Section 2.01, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by the Company, each other Borrower and the Agent and when the Agent shall have received executed counterparts hereof from each Initial Lender and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, each other Borrower, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that neither the Company nor any other Borrower shall have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all of the Lenders, except as otherwise permitted by this Agreement, including without limitation, Section 5.02(b).
Binding Effect
          SECTION 9.07. . (a) . No Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of paragraph (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in paragraph (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each
Assignments and Participations
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
of the Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
          (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances at the time owing to it); that (in each case with respect to any Facility) any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
          (i) .
Minimum Amounts
     (A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and/or the Advances at the time owing to it (in each case with respect to any Facility) or contemporaneous assignments to related Approved Funds that equal at least the amount specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section in the aggregate or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned, , , if the amount of such assignment is less than 100,000 (or its equivalent in any other currency) or such greater amount as may be required pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act () as amended from time to time, the assignee is a "Professional Market Party" within the meaning of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act; and
provided
however
Wet op het financieel toezicht
     (B) in any case not described in paragraph (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Advances outstanding thereunder) or, if the applicable Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Advances of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Agent or, if "" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date) shall not be less than $10,000,000, in the case of any assignment in respect of any Facility, or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, unless each of the Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
Trade Date
     (ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Advances or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations among separate Facilities on a non-pro rata basis.
Proportionate Amounts
     (iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
     (A) the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (x) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment, or (y) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; that the Company shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Agent within five Business Days after having received notice thereof;
provided
 
     (B) the consent of the Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender; and
     (C) the consent of each applicable Issuing Bank and Swing Line Bank (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment in respect of the its applicable Facility.
     (iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; that the Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignmentThe assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
.
     (v) . No such assignment shall be made to (A) any Borrower or any of its Affiliates or Subsidiaries or (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (B).
No Assignment to Certain Persons
     (vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural Person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
     (vii) . In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Company and the Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Advances previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent, each Issuing Bank, each Swing Line Bank and each other Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon), and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Advances and participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Advances in accordance with its Ratable Share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Certain Additional Payments
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Agent pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11 and 8.04 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment; , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no assignment by a Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been
provided
 
a Defaulting Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Section.
          (c) . The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices in the United States a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts (and stated interest) of the Advances owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrowers, the Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
          (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Company, the Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Swing Line Bank, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural Person or the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Advances owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) the Borrowers, the Agent, the Issuing Banks and Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and (iv) that to the extent the participation concerns an amount of less than 100,000 (or its equivalent in any other currency) or such greater amount as may be required pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act () as amended from time to time, the Participant is a "Professional Market Party" within the meaning of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act. For the avoidance of doubt, each Lender shall be responsible for the indemnity under Section 9.04(d) with respect to any payments made by such Lender to its Participant(s).
Participations
Participant
provided
Wet op het financieel toezicht
          Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.01 that affects such Participant. The Borrowers agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 9.04(d) and 2.14 (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under Section 2.14(g) (it being understood that the documentation required under Section 2.14(g) shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; that such Participant (A) agrees to be subject to the provisions of Sections 2.21 as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section; and (B) shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.11 or 2.14, with respect to any participation, than its participating Lender would have been entitled to receive, except to the extent such entitlement to receive a greater payment results from a Change in Law that occurs after the Participant acquired the applicable participation. Each Lender that sells a participation agrees, at the Company's request and expense, to use reasonable efforts to cooperate with the Company to effectuate the provisions of Section 2.21(b) with respect to any Participant. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.05 as though it were a Lender; that such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.15 as though it were a Lender. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Company, maintain a register on
provided
provided
provided
 
which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Advances or other obligations under the Loan Documents (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any commitments, loans, letters of credit or its other obligations under any Loan Document) to any Person except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such commitment, loan, letter of credit or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary. For the avoidance of doubt, the Agent (in its capacity as Agent) shall have no responsibility for maintaining a Participant Register.
Participant Register
provided
          (e) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank or any central bank having jurisdiction over such Lender; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
          SECTION 9.08. . Each of the Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, that, in such case and in the case of above, the Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as applicable, shall use reasonable efforts to notify the Company promptly thereof prior to disclosure of such Information, to the extent practicable and it is not prohibited from doing so by any law or regulation or by such subpoena or legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any Note or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any Note or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement ((it being understood that such actual or prospective assignee or participant will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives) to any swap, derivative or other transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Company and its obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder (it being understood that such actual or prospective party will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (iii) any rating agency, or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the written consent of the Company or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company unless the Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as applicable, has actual knowledge that such source was required to keep such Information confidential.
Confidentiality
provided
clause (b)
 
          For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Company or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, that, in the case of information received from the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential or should, because of its nature, reasonably be understood to be confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
          SECTION 9.09. . (a) . The Company may at any time, and from time to time, upon not less than 15 Business Days' notice in the case of any Subsidiary so designated after the Effective Date, notify the Agent that the Company intends to designate a Subsidiary as a "Designated Subsidiary" for purposes of this Agreement. On or after the date that is 15 Business Days after such notice, upon delivery to the Agent of a Designation Letter duly executed by the Company and the respective Subsidiary and substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto, such Subsidiary shall thereupon become a "Designated Subsidiary" for purposes of this Agreement and, as such, shall have all of the rights and obligations of a Borrower hereunder. The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Company's notice of such pending designation by the Company and the identity of the respective Subsidiary. Following the giving of any notice pursuant to this Section 9.09(a), if the designation of such Designated Subsidiary obligates the Agent or any Lender to comply with "know your customer" or similar identification procedures in circumstances where the necessary information is not already available to it, the Company shall, promptly upon the request of the Agent or any Lender, supply such documentation and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lender in order for the Agent or such Lender to carry out and be satisfied it has complied with the results of all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations.
Designated Subsidiaries
Designation
          If the Company shall designate as a Designated Subsidiary hereunder any Subsidiary not organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, any Lender may, with notice to the Agent and the Company, fulfill its Commitment by causing an Affiliate of such Lender to act as the Lender in respect of such Designated Subsidiary.
          As soon as practicable after receiving notice from the Company or the Agent of the Company's intent to designate a Subsidiary as a Designated Subsidiary, and in any event no later than five Business Days after the delivery of such notice, for a Designated Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than of the United States or a political subdivision thereof, any Lender that may not legally lend to, establish credit for the account of and/or do any business whatsoever with such Designated Subsidiary directly or through an Affiliate of such Lender as provided in the immediately preceding paragraph (a "") shall so notify the Company and the Agent in writing. With respect to each Protesting Lender, the Company shall, effective on or before the date that such Designated Subsidiary shall have the right to borrow hereunder, either (A) notify the Agent and such Protesting Lender that the Commitments of such Protesting Lender shall be terminated; that such Protesting Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances and/or Letter of Credit reimbursement obligations, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company or the relevant Designated Subsidiary (in the case of all other amounts), or (B) cancel its request to designate such Subsidiary as a "Designated Subsidiary" hereunder.
Protesting Lender
provided
 
          (b) . Upon the payment and performance in full of all of the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations under this Agreement and the Notes of any Designated Subsidiary then, so long as at the time no Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing in respect of such Designated Subsidiary is outstanding, such Subsidiary's status as a "Designated Subsidiary" shall terminate upon written notice to such effect from the Agent to the Lenders (which notice the Agent shall give promptly upon its receipt of a request therefor from the Company). Thereafter, the Lenders shall be under no further obligation to make any Advance hereunder to such Designated Subsidiary.
Termination
          SECTION 9.10. .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
          (a) . This Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any claims, controversy, dispute or cause of action (whether in contract or tort or otherwise) based upon, arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document (except, as to any other Loan Document, as expressly set forth therein) and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          (b) . Each party hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that it will not commence any action, litigation or proceeding of any kind or description, whether in law or equity, whether in contract or in tort or otherwise, against any other party hereto, or any Related Party of the foregoing in any way relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the transactions relating hereto or thereto, in any forum other than the courts of the State of New York sitting in New York County, and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, and each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the jurisdiction of such courts and agrees that all claims in respect of any such action, litigation or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in such federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action, litigation or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement or in any other Loan Document shall affect any right that the Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document against the Company or any other Loan Party or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction in connection with the exercise of any rights under any agreement related to collateral provided hereunder that is governed by laws other than the law of the State of New York or to enforce a judgment obtained from a court in New York.
Jurisdiction
          (c) . Each party hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
Waiver of Venue
          (d) . Each party hereto irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.02. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party hereto to serve process in any other manner permitted by applicable law.
Service of Process
          SECTION 9.11. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier
Execution in Counterparts
 
or other electronic means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
          SECTION 9.12. . (a) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase Dollars with such other currency at Citibank's principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
Judgment
          (b) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in a Committed Currency into Dollars, the parties agree to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase such Committed Currency with Dollars at Citibank's principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
          (c) The obligation of any Borrower in respect of any sum due from it in any currency (the "") to any Lender or the Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any other currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be), of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the applicable Primary Currency with such other currency; if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased is less than such sum due to such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, each Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased exceeds such sum due to any Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to such Borrower such excess.
Primary Currency
          SECTION 9.13. . If a change in any Committed Currency occurs pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation of any governmental, monetary or multi-national authority, this Agreement (including, without limitation, the definition of Eurocurrency Rate) will be amended to the extent determined by the Agent (acting reasonably and in consultation with the Company) to be necessary to reflect the change in currency and to put the Lenders and the Borrowers in the same position, so far as possible, that they would have been in if no change in such Committed Currency had occurred.
Substitution of Currency
          SECTION 9.14. . The Borrowers assume all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit with respect to its use of such Letter of Credit. Neither an Issuing Bank nor any of its officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for: (a) the use that may be made of any Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (b) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (c) payment by such Issuing Bank against presentation of documents that do not comply with the terms of a Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to the Letter of Credit; or (d) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit, except that the applicable Borrower shall have a claim against such Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall be liable to such Borrower, to the extent of any direct, but not consequential, damages suffered by such Borrower that such Borrower proves were caused by such Issuing Bank's willful misconduct, bad faith or gross negligence when
No Liability of the Issuing Banks
 
determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, such Issuing Bank may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary; that nothing herein shall be deemed to excuse such Issuing Bank if it acts with gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct in accepting such documents.
provided
          SECTION 9.15. . Each Lender and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Borrower, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent, as applicable, to identify each Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. Each Borrower shall provide such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lenders in order to assist the Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Notice
          SECTION 9.16. . Each Subsidiary of the Company may from time to time authorize and appoint the Company as its attorney-in-fact to execute and deliver (a) any amendment, waiver or consent in accordance with Section 9.01 on behalf of and in the name of such Subsidiary and (b) any notice or other communication hereunder, on behalf of and in the name of such Subsidiary. Such authorization shall become effective as of the date on which such Subsidiary delivers to the Agent a power of attorney enforceable under applicable law and any additional information to the Agent as necessary to make such power of attorney the legal, valid and binding obligation of such Subsidiary.
Power of Attorney
          SECTION 9.17. . Each Borrower agrees that in connection with all aspects of the transactions contemplated hereby and any communications in connection therewith, each Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Agent, the Bookrunners, Arrangers, syndication agent, documentation agent, the Issuing Banks, the Lenders and their respective Affiliates, on the other hand, will have a business relationship that does not create, by implication or otherwise, any fiduciary duty on the part of the Agent, the Bookrunners, Arrangers, syndication agent, documentation agent, the Issuing Banks, the Lenders or their respective Affiliates and no such duty will be deemed to have arisen in connection with any such transactions or communications.
No Fiduciary Duty
          SECTION 9.18. . Each of the Company, the other Borrowers, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes or the actions of the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE I INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES INC. FIVE YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT COMMITMENTS
 
 
          Each Lender shall promptly notify the Agent in writing of any change to the information provided by it pursuant to this paragraph.
 
 
None.
 
EXHIBIT A  FORM OF REVOLVING CREDIT PROMISSORY NOTE
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, [NAME OF BORROWER], a __________ corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the "") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the Termination Date (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lender's Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances made by the Lender to the [[Name of Borrower],] pursuant to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November __, 2011 among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other borrowers and lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or modified from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on the Termination Date.
Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
     The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
     Both principal and interest in respect of each Advance (i) in Dollars are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to the Agent at its account maintained at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, in same day funds and (ii) in any Committed Currency are payable in such currency at the applicable Payment Office in same day funds. Each Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
     This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Revolving Credit Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note, (ii) contains provisions for determining the Dollar Equivalent of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies and (iii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
     This Promissory Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower has caused this Promissory Note to be duly executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT B  FORM OF NOTICE OF REVOLVING CREDIT BORROWING
Citibank, N.A., as Agent
for the Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below 1615 Brett Road, Building #3 New Castle, Delaware 19720
[Citibank International plc
5th Floor CGC2 Canary Wharf, London E14 5LB Attention of European Loans Agency Office Capital Markets and Banking Operations]
1
          Attention: Bank Loan Syndications Department
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          The undersigned, [Name of Borrower], refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November __, 2011 (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain other borrowers and Lenders parties thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Revolving Credit Borrowing (the "") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing
     (i) The Business Day of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is _______________, 20_.
          (ii) The Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is to be made under the Tranche [A][B][C] Facility. The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances].
     (iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is $_______________][for a Revolving Credit Borrowing in a Committed Currency, list currency and amount of Revolving Credit Borrowing].
     [(iv) The initial Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is _____ month[s].]
          The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing:
 
 
     (A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement [(except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof)] [and, in the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing made to a Designated Subsidiary, in the Designation Agreement for such Designated Subsidiary,] are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date (except for those representations and warranties that specifically relate to a prior date, which shall have been correct on such prior date); and
2
3
     (B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default.
 
 
EXHIBIT C  FORM OF ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
          This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between the Assignor identified in item 1 below (the "") and the Assignee identified in item 2 below (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Assignor
Assignee
Credit Agreement
          For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including without limitation any letters of credit, guarantees, and swingline loans included in such facilities), and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by the Assignor to the Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
6. Assigned Interest[s]:
[7. Trade Date: ______________]
7
 
 
Effective Date: _____________ ___, 20___ [TO BE INSERTED BY AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
ANNEX 1
          1. .
Representations and Warranties
          1.1 . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim, (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (iv) it is [not] a Defaulting Lender; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower[s], any of [its/their] Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document, or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower[s], any of [its/their] Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
          1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section 9.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 9.07(b)(iii) of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by the Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire the Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(h) thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
          2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignee whether such amounts have accrued prior to, on or after the Effective Date. The Assignor and the Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments by the Agent for periods prior to the Effective Date or with respect to the making of this assignment directly between themselves.
Payments
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Agent shall make all payments of interest, fees or other amounts paid or payable in kind from and after the Effective Date to the Assignee.
          3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy or other electronic means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT E
 
     EXHIBIT F  FORM OF DESIGNATION AGREEMENT
To each of the Lenders   parties to the Credit Agreement   (as defined below) and to Citibank, N.A.,   as Agent for such Lenders
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Reference is made to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November __, 2011 (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") among International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., a New York corporation (the ""), the other borrowers party thereto, the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Lenders (the ""). Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Company
Agent
          Please be advised that pursuant to Section 9.09 of the Credit Agreement, the Company hereby designates its undersigned Subsidiary, (""), as a "Designated Subsidiary" under and for all purposes of the Credit Agreement.
                    
Designated Subsidiary
          The Designated Subsidiary, in consideration of each Lender's agreement to extend credit to it under and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement, does hereby assume each of the obligations imposed upon a "Designated Subsidiary" and a "Borrower" under the Credit Agreement and agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. In furtherance of the foregoing, the Designated Subsidiary hereby represents and warrants to each Lender as follows:
     (a) The Designated Subsidiary is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of .
                    
                    
     (b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Designated Subsidiary of this Designation Agreement, the Credit Agreement and the Notes, if any, to be delivered by it are within the Designated Subsidiary's corporate or other powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and do not conflict with (i) the Designated Subsidiary's charter or by-laws other constitutive documents or (ii) any law or any material contractual restriction, or to the knowledge of the Designated Subsidiary, any other contractual restriction, binding on or affecting the Designated Subsidiary. The Designation Agreement and the Notes, if any, delivered by it have been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Designated Subsidiary.
     (c) All Authorizations required (i) for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Designated Subsidiary of this Designation Agreement, the Credit Agreement or the Notes, if any, to be delivered by it or (ii) to make the Designation Agreement, the Credit Agreement or the Notes, if any, admissible in evidence in its jurisdiction of incorporation have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect.
     (d) This Designation Agreement is, and the Notes, if any, to be delivered by the Designated Subsidiary when delivered will be, legal, valid and binding obligations of the Designated Subsidiary enforceable against the Designated Subsidiary in accordance with their
 
respective terms, except to the extent that such enforceability may be limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and may be subject to the discretion of courts with respect to the granting of equitable remedies and to the power of courts to stay proceedings for the execution of judgments.
     (e) There is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation or proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, affecting the Designated Subsidiary or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Designation Agreement, the Credit Agreement or any Note of the Designated Subsidiary.
          The Designated Subsidiary hereby agrees that service of process in any action or proceeding brought in any New York State court or in federal court may be made upon the Company at its offices at 512 W. 57th Street, New York, New York 10019, Attention: (the ") and the Designated Subsidiary hereby irrevocably appoints the Process Agent to give any notice of any such service of process, and agrees that the failure of the Process Agent to give any notice of any such service shall not impair or affect the validity of such service or of any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon.
                    
Process Agent"
          The Company hereby accepts such appointment as Process Agent and agrees with you that (i) the Company will maintain an office in New York, New York through the Termination Date and will give the Agent prompt notice of any change of address of the Company, (ii) the Company will perform its duties as Process Agent to receive on behalf of the Designated Subsidiary and its property service of copies of the summons and complaint and any other process which may be served in any action or proceeding in any New York State or federal court sitting in New York City arising out of or relating to the Credit Agreement and (iii) the Company will forward forthwith to the Designated Subsidiary at its address at or, if different, its then current address, copies of any summons, complaint and other process which the Company received in connection with its appointment as Process Agent.
                    
                    
          This Designation Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
EXHIBIT G  TAX FORMS
          Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November __, 2011 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., International Flavors & Fragrances (Luxembourg) S..r.l., International Flavors & Fragrances (Nederland) Holding B.V., International Flavors & Fragrances (Nederland) B.V., IFF Latin American Holdings (Espaa) S.L., Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and each lender from time to time party thereto.
Credit Agreement
          Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the Advance(s) (as well as any Note(s) evidencing such Advance(s)) in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code and (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code.
          The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with a certificate of its non-U.S. Person status on IRS Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrowers and the Agent, and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrowers and the Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
          Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
Date: __, 20[   ]
                    
 
          Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November __, 2011 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., International Flavors & Fragrances (Luxembourg) S..r.l., International Flavors & Fragrances (Nederland) Holding B.V., International Flavors & Fragrances (Nederland) B.V., IFF Latin American Holdings (Espaa) S.L., Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and each lender from time to time party thereto.
Credit Agreement
          Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, and (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code.
          The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with a certificate of its non-U.S. Person status on IRS Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender in writing, and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
          Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
Date: __, 20[    ]
                    
 
          Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November __, 2011 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., International Flavors & Fragrances (Luxembourg) S..r.l., International Flavors & Fragrances (Nederland) Holding B.V., International Flavors & Fragrances (Nederland) B.V., IFF Latin American Holdings (Espaa) S.L., Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and each lender from time to time party thereto.
Credit Agreement
          Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its direct or indirect partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such participation, (iii) with respect such participation, neither the undersigned nor any of its direct or indirect partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code and (v) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code.
          The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by one of the following forms from each of its partners/members that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption: (i) an IRS Form W-8BEN or (ii) an IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by an IRS Form W-8BEN from each of such partner's/member's beneficial owners that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
          Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
Date: __, 20[    ]
                    
 
          Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November __, 2011 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., International Flavors & Fragrances (Luxembourg) S..r.l., International Flavors & Fragrances (Nederland) Holding B.V., International Flavors & Fragrances (Nederland) B.V., IFF Latin American Holdings (Espaa) S.L., Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and each lender from time to time party thereto.
Credit Agreement
          Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the Advance(s) (as well as any Note(s) evidencing such Advance(s)) in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its direct or indirect partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such Advance(s) (as well as any Note(s) evidencing such Advance(s)), (iii) with respect to the extension of credit pursuant to this Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, neither the undersigned nor any of its direct or indirect partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code and (v) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code.
          The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by one of the following forms from each of its partners/members that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption: (i) an IRS Form W-8BEN or (ii) an IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by an IRS Form W-8BEN from each of such partner's/member's beneficial owners that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrowers and the Agent, and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrowers and the Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
          Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
Date: __, 20[    ]
                    


