FILE:IFF/IFF-8K-20120119172354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 18, 2012, International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (the "Company") adopted a strategic initiative designed to strengthen the Company's global go-to-market capabilities and improve profitability, particularly within the Fragrance Business Unit. As part of this initiative, the Functional Fragrances group within the Fragrance Business Unit will be reorganized into a global category structure similar to the approach used for Fine Fragrance & Beauty Care and Fragrance Ingredients. In addition, the Company will reallocate a portion of its Functional Fragrance resources from the developed markets to the emerging markets, increasing emphasis on its Singapore and Mexico creative centers. As a result of this initiative, approximately 70 positions globally will be eliminated in Fragrances as well as various parts of the organization. The Company will record a pre-tax charge of approximately $10 million, or $0.08 per diluted share after-tax, which is related to severance and other employee-related costs.
A copy of the press release announcing the restructuring initiative is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 19, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
Interntional Flavors & Fragrances Inc.
, a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances for consumer products, today announced a strategic initiative designed to strengthen the Company's global go-to-market capabilities and improve profitability. The initiative includes a realignment of responsibilities in the Fragrance Business Unit under its Group President, Nicolas Mirzayantz, and a reduction in workforce in fragrances as well as various parts of the organization.
NEW YORK, N.Y., January 18, 2012  International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF)
The Fragrance Business Unit will reorganize its Functional Fragrances group to align with the global category approach used for Fine Fragrance & Beauty Care and Fragrance Ingredients. The Company will also continue to reallocate a portion of its Functional Fragrance resources from the developed markets to the emerging markets, increasing emphasis on its Singapore and Mexico creative centers.
"This realignment completes the roll-out of our full category structure within the Fragrance Business Unit," said Mr. Mirzayantz. "We believe this will strengthen our expertise and ability to win in key categories and key markets while simultaneously simplifying our decision-making process, improving resource allocation, and enhancing collaboration, as we continue to deliver consumer-preferred fragrances to our customers."
"Today's announcement highlights our commitment to the plan that was developed in our strategic review," said Doug Tough, IFF's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "These changes are expected to provide improved business fundamentals that, when combined with our strategy to leverage our geographic reach, strengthen our innovation platform and maximize our portfolio, should create long-term value for our shareholders."
In the fourth quarter of 2011, IFF will record a pre-tax charge of approximately $10 million, or $0.08 per diluted share after-tax associated with the elimination of approximately 70 positions globally, which is for severance and other employee-related costs. The Company expects to realize pre-tax savings of approximately $9 million in 2012.
Cautionary Statement Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Statements in this press release, which are not historical facts or information, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's current assumptions, estimates and expectations. Certain of such forward-looking information may be identified by such terms as "expect", "anticipate", "believe", "outlook", "may", "estimate", "should" and "predict" similar terms or variations thereof. All information concerning the restructuring
initiative, including the expected number of positions that will be eliminated, the restructuring charges that will be recorded, the amount and timing of expected savings, and the impact on the Company's future business, as well as other statements regarding the Company future revenues, tax rates or benefits, energy costs, interest and other savings, capital expenditures, earnings and other future financial results or financial position, constitutes forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements are based on a series of expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about the Company, are not guarantees of future results or performance, and involve significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, including assumptions and projections, for all forward periods. Actual results of the Company may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others, the following:
 
The foregoing list of important factors does not include all such factors, nor necessarily present them in order of importance. In addition, you should consult other disclosures made by the Company (such as in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or in company press releases) for other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by the Company.
The Company intends its forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of such statements and does not undertake or plan to update or revise them as more information becomes available or to reflect changes in expectations, assumptions or results. The Company can give no assurance that such expectations or forward-looking statements will prove to be correct. An occurrence of, or any material adverse change in, one or more of the risk factors or risks and uncertainties referred to in this report or included in our other periodic reports filed with the SEC could materially and adversely impact our operations and our future financial results.
Any public statements or disclosures by IFF following this release that modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this report will be deemed to modify or supersede such outlook or other forward-looking statements in or accompanying this report.
About IFF
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (NYSE: IFF) is a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products. Consumers experience these unique scents and tastes in fine fragrances and beauty care, detergents and household goods, as well as beverages, confectionery and food products. The Company leverages its competitive advantages of consumer insight, research and development, creative expertise, and customer intimacy to provide customers with innovative and differentiated product offerings. A member of the S&P 500 Index, IFF has more than 5,500 employees working in 33 countries worldwide. For more information, please visit our website at www.iff.com.
Investor Relations:
Michael DeVeau
212-708-7164
Media Relations
Fragrances:
Denise Gillen
212-515-7308
Flavors:
Carol Brys
212-708-7121


