Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) Seeds and Genomics Segment the segment description Item 7 MD&A Agricultural Productivity Segment the segment description, and the tabular information regarding net sales of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides Item 8 Note 23 Segment and Geographic Data the segment information 4 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS Monsantos principal products, categorized by our two segments, include the following: SEEDS AND GENOMICS Major Products End Use Products and Applications Roundup Ready trait in soybeans, corn, canola and cotton(1) Weed control system for crops tolerant of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides Bollgard and Bollgard II traits in cotton;(1) YieldGard Corn Borer and YieldGard Rootworm traits in corn(1) Crops protected against certain insects Agroceres, Asgrow and DEKALB branded seeds; Holdens Foundation Seeds; Monsoy foundation seed Corn hybrids and foundation seed; soybean varieties and foundation seed; sunflower hybrids; sorghum grain hybrids and forage hybrids; wheat varieties and foundation seed; oilseed rape and canola varieties; barley varieties; alfalfa varieties (1) Monsanto also offers growers stacked trait products, where more than one trait is combined in a single seed product. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY Major Products End Use Products and Applications Roundup herbicide and other glyphosate based herbicides Nonselective agricultural, industrial, ornamental and turf applications for weed control Harness, Degree and Guardian acetanilide based herbicides Control of pre emergent annual grass and small seeded broadleaf weeds in corn Other selective herbicides, such as: Lasso acetanilide based herbicides; Leader, Monitor, Maverick, Sundance, Outrider and Apyros sulfosulfuron herbicides; Permit, Manage and Sempra halosulfuron herbicides; and Machete butachlor herbicide Control of specific weeds in wheat, corn, grain sorghum, turf, cotton, sugarcane, rice, and barley; and control of specific weeds on roadsides Lawn and garden herbicides Residential lawn and garden applications for weed control Posilac bovine somatotropin Increase efficiency of milk production in dairy cows Monsanto Choice Genetics swine genetics lines Increase productivity and meat quality of swine Enviro Chem engineering, procurement and construction management (EPC) services; proprietary equipment and process technologies EPC services for processing plants for fertilizer producers, basic metals production, oil refining and ethanol production; proprietary equipment and process technologies related to sulfuric acid catalysts, mist eliminators, air pollution abatement and heat exchangers Elemental Phosphorus (produced by P4 Production, LLC, an entity 99 percent owned by, and operated by, Monsanto (P4 Production)) Production of high quality food, pharmaceutical, and agricultural phosphorus compounds Products may be sold under different brand names in different countries. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing pesticides, new plant varieties, biotechnology traits and food and feed safety in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products. In virtually all countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals prior to marketing our products. PRINCIPAL EQUITY AFFILIATES In September 1998, we entered into an agreement (as amended from time to time, the Renessen Agreement), to form the Renessen LLC joint venture with Cargill, Incorporated (Cargill) to develop and market enhanced crops for the grain processing and animal feed industries. Renessen began operations in January 1999 and has no specified term. We and Cargill each have a 50 percent interest in Renessen. A governance board on which we and Cargill have equal representation manages Renessen. With respect to Renessen, we and Cargill: (1) have committed to make equal contributions to fund Renessens approved business plan; (2) have granted Renessen a worldwide, fully paid up, non exclusive, non royalty bearing right and license to our and Cargills respective patents and intellectual property relevant to Renessens activities in the grain processing and animal feed industries; (3) receive rights to use intellectual property developed by Renessen in other specified areas; and (4) receive preferential rights to provide specified services to Renessen. This joint venture combines our seed assets and technology capabilities with Cargills global grain processing, marketing and risk management infrastructure. Renessens products under development include seeds designed to enhance processing efficiency and grain products designed to deliver better nutrition in animal feed. Pursuant to the Renessen Agreement, we perform the bulk of Renessens research and development (R&D) activities. For the eight month transition period ended Aug. 31, 2003, we charged Renessen $33 million for R&D expenses. The expenses that were charged to Renessen are not included in the $330 million of Research and Development Expenses reflected in our Statement of Consolidated Operations for the transition period. Our equity affiliate expense related to Renessen was $26 million in the eight month transition 5 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K period, $41 million in the 12 month periods ended Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001, and $31 million in the 12 month period ended Dec. 31, 2000, all of which is reflected in Other Expense Net in our Statement of Consolidated Operations. See information regarding Renessen in Item 8 Note 25 Equity Affiliates and in the Schedule to this Form 10 K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). COMPETITION The global markets for our products are highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify as a result of continuing industry consolidation, the expiration of our patent for glyphosate herbicide in the United States in 2002, and continued expenditures by our competitors on the development and commercialization of new technologies and products, including biotechnology traits. There are relatively few global competitors for our seed business; however, we compete with hundreds of local and regional companies, to many of which we supply base germplasm and or access to our biotechnology traits. In certain countries we also compete with government owned seed companies, and may also compete with growers who use seed saved from one year to the next. Product performance (in particular, crop yield), customer service, intellectual property and price are important determinants of market success. In addition, strong distributor and grower relationships have been important in the United States and many other countries. Our traits compete directly with agricultural chemicals as well as with traits developed by other companies. Other agrichemical and seed marketers produce chemical and seed products that compete with our Roundup Ready and insect protected systems. Competition for the discovery of new agricultural traits based on biotechnology and or genomics is likely to come from major global agrichemical companies. Enabling technologies may also come from academic researchers and a wide array of biotechnology research companies. The primary factors underlying the competitive success of traits are performance and commercial viability, timeliness of introduction, value, governmental approvals, public acceptance, and environmental characteristics. Competitive success in crop protection products depends on price, product performance, the quality of solutions offered to growers, market coverage, and the quality of service to distributors and growers. We have between five and 10 major global competitors for our agricultural herbicide products. Competition from local or regional companies may also be significant. For additional information on competition for Roundup herbicide, see Item 7 under the headings: MD&A Outlook Agricultural Productivity; and MD&A Cautionary Statements: Risk Factors Regarding Forward Looking Statements Competition for Roundup Herbicides. Our lawn and garden herbicides compete on the basis of product performance. We have fewer than five significant national competitors, and a larger number of regional competitors, in the United States. We are the only supplier of bovine somatotropin in the United States. The United States is our largest market for our lawn and garden herbicides and our bovine somatotropin products. CUSTOMERS; DISTRIBUTION OF PRODUCTS We have a worldwide distribution and sales and marketing organization that consolidates the sales forces of our seeds and traits and crop protection operations. We license a broad package of our germplasm and trait technologies to seed companies that do business in the United States and certain international markets. The seed companies pay a royalty to Monsanto for the germplasm or traits and then market these products to growers. We also market our branded germplasm and traits to growers through distributors, independent retailers and dealers, agricultural cooperatives and agents. In most cases, growers are required to sign a technology agreement that acknowledges our patents, grants limited patent licenses, and requires appropriate product stewardship. In certain circumstances, depending on the type of trait and the geographic location, trait license agreements may also require royalty payments or trait fees from growers. We sell our crop protection products through distributors, independent retailers and dealers, agricultural cooperatives, and, in some cases outside the United States, through joint ventures or directly to growers. We also sell our crop protection products to other major agricultural chemical producers. We sell and ship our Posilac bovine somatotropin directly to dairy farmers in the United States. Outside of the United States, we rely on a single exclusive distributor for these products. We deliver our swine genetics products directly to swine producers, who pay for the use of the genetics in upfront fees and or royalties. We market our lawn and garden herbicide products through The Scotts Company (Scotts). Scotts receives a commission for its services as our agent based on a varying percentage of the earnings before interest and taxes related to the lawn and garden herbicide business. Scotts also is responsible for contributing annually to the expenses of this business. For additional information, see the information in Item 7, under the heading MD&A Agricultural Productivity Segment Our Agreement with The Scotts Company, which is incorporated herein by reference. We support our products in all global markets with a sales and product development organization that educates growers about our newest products, innovative farming practices and the integration of new products with existing ones. We seek to build strong partnerships with our customers, and we have signed multiyear contracts and supply agreements with many of our larger customers. We also use marketing programs to promote our products. While no single customer (including affiliates) represents more than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales, our 6 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K three largest U.S. agricultural distributors and their affiliates represented, in aggregate, 16 percent of our worldwide net sales in the eight month period ended Aug. 31, 2003, and 27 percent of our net sales in the United States. During this period, one major U.S. distributor and its affiliates represented approximately 11 percent of the net sales for our Agricultural Productivity segment, and approximately 7 percent of the net sales for our Seeds and Genomics segment. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS As of Aug. 31, 2003, Monsanto had approximately 13,200 employees worldwide. On Oct. 15, 2003, we announced plans for strategic actions that are expected to reduce the size of our global workforce by approximately 7 to 9 percent. Satisfactory relations have prevailed between Monsanto and its employees. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Some of these laws restrict the amount and type of pollutants that can be released from our operations into the environment. Other laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq. (Superfund), can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup upon any former or current site owners or operators or parties who sent waste to these sites, without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. These laws and regulations may be amended from time to time and become increasingly stringent. We are dedicated to long term environmental protection and compliance programs that reduce and monitor emissions of hazardous materials into the environment, as well as to the remediation of identified existing environmental concerns. Consistent with a consent order with the State of Idaho, we have embarked on a multiyear project to design and install state of the art air emission control equipment at the P4 Production facility at Soda Springs, Idaho. While the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, such costs do not have a material adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position. Because of our investment in the Soda Springs project, our capital expenditures for environmental control facilities will be higher than usual in the next few years. Current estimates indicate that total company wide capital expenditures for environmental compliance will be approximately $35 million in fiscal year 2004, and $19 million in fiscal year 2005. In addition to potential liability for our own manufacturing locations and off site disposal and formulation facilities, under the terms of the Separation Agreement we were required to indemnify Pharmacia for any liability it may have for environmental remediation or other environmental responsibilities primarily related to Pharmacias former agricultural or chemical businesses. This includes, but is not limited to, environmental liabilities that Solutia Inc. (Solutia), the former chemicals business of Pharmacia, assumed from Pharmacia in connection with its spinoff on Sept. 1, 1997, to the extent that Solutia fails to pay, perform or discharge those liabilities. See Relationships Among Monsanto Company, Pharmacia Corporation and Solutia Inc., below, and Item 8 Note 22 Commitments and Contingencies, for additional information relating to Solutia and related risks to Monsantos financial position, profitability and or liquidity. See information regarding remediation of waste disposal sites and reserves for remediation, appearing in Item 8 Note 22 Commitments and Contingencies, which is incorporated herein by reference. For information regarding certain environmental proceedings, see Legal Proceedings, below. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS See information appearing in Item 7 under the heading MD&A Cautionary Statements: Risk Factors Regarding Forward Looking Statements Operations Outside the United States; and information appearing in Item 8 Note 23 Segment and Geographic Data. That information is incorporated herein by reference. Over 40 percent of Monsantos sales, and 40 percent of each segments sales, are made outside the United States. PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, LICENSES, FRANCHISES AND CONCESSIONS Monsanto has a broad portfolio of patents in the United States and many foreign countries which provide intellectual property protection for its products and processes. Plant Variety Protection Act Certificates in the United States, and equivalent plant breeders rights in other countries, as well as variety registrations in countries that require registration, are also significant to the Seeds and Genomics segment. Monsanto routinely obtains patents and or plant variety protection for its commercial varietal products and for the parents of its commercial hybrid products, and routinely obtains registration for its commercial products in registration countries. Monsantos insect protection traits (including YieldGard Corn Borer and YieldGard Corn Rootworm traits in corn seed and Bollgard trait in cotton seed) are protected by patents which extend until at least 2011. Based on patent applications filed in 2001 and 2002, it is anticipated that the Bollgard II insect protection trait will be patent protected in the United States, and in other geographies in which patent protection is sought, through 2022. Monsantos herbicide tolerance products (Roundup Ready traits in corn seed, soybean seed, cotton seed and canola seed) are protected in the United States by patents which extend until at least 2014. Posilac bovine somatotropin is protected by a United States patent that expires in 2008, and by corresponding patents in other countries, most of which expire in 2005. Other patents protect various aspects of bovine somatotropin manufacture in the United States and expire at varying dates ending March 2012; corresponding patents in other countries have varying terms. 7 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Patents protecting the active ingredient in Roundup herbicide expired in the United States in 2000, and have expired in all other countries. Monsanto has several patents on its glyphosate formulations and manufacturing processes in the United States and other countries, some of which extend until 2015 and beyond. Monsanto also holds licenses from other parties relating to certain products and processes. The company has obtained perpetual licenses to chemicals for Harness herbicide and to chemicals for Maverick herbicide, and to manufacturing technology for Posilac bovine somatotropin. Monsanto has also in licensed gene transformation technology for producing transformed plant products, including Roundup Ready soybean and Roundup Ready corn products; this license lasts until the licensors patent expires, after which no license will be required to use the patented technology. Monsanto also has a license to chemicals for its halosulfuron herbicides, including Permit, Manage and Sempra; the license expires in 2004 but is automatically extended unless terminated. In addition, Monsanto has obtained various licenses in order to protect certain of its technologies used in the production of Roundup Ready seeds, and certain of its technologies relating to pipeline products, from claims of infringement of patents of others. These licenses last for the lifetimes of the applicable patents, after which no licenses will be required to use the respective patented technologies. The company holds numerous licenses in connection with its genomics program, for example: a perpetual license to certain genomics technologies for use in the areas of plant agriculture and dairy cattle; perpetual licenses to classes of proprietary genes for the development of commercial traits in crops, to patents expiring from 2018 to 2023; perpetual licenses to functional characterizations of the companys proprietary genes; perpetual licenses to certain genomics sequences; and certain genomics technologies. Monsanto owns a considerable number of established trademarks in many countries under which it markets its products. The company owns trademark registrations and files trademark applications for the names and many of the designs used on its branded products. Important company trademarks include Roundup (for herbicide products), Roundup Ready, Bollgard and YieldGard (for traits), DEKALB and Asgrow (for agricultural seeds) and Posilac (for dairy productivity products). P4 Production holds (directly or by assignment) numerous phosphate leases, which were issued on behalf of or granted by the United States, the State of Idaho and private parties. None of these leases taken individually is material, although the leases in the aggregate are significant because elemental phosphorus is a key raw material for the production of glyphosate herbicide. The phosphate leases have varying terms, with leases obtained from the United States being of indefinite duration subject to the modification of lease terms at 20 year intervals. A considerable number of Monsantos patents and licenses are currently the subject of litigation; see Legal Proceedings below. RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY RESOURCES We are a significant purchaser of a variety of basic and intermediate raw materials. Our major raw materials and energy requirements are typically purchased through long term contracts. We are not dependent on any one outside supplier for a significant amount of any raw material requirements, but certain important raw materials are obtained from a few major suppliers. Additional capacity exists for all major raw materials either from different suppliers or from alternate manufacturing locations. Different catalysts are used in various intermediate steps in the production of glyphosate. These are produced by two major catalyst manufacturers using our proprietary technology at various sites globally. These suppliers have additional capacity at other manufacturing locations. Energy is available as required but pricing is subject to market fluctuations from time to time. We engage in hedging transactions to minimize significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in natural gas prices. We purchase most of our global supply of elemental phosphorus, a key raw material for the production of Roundup herbicide, from P4 Production, which, as noted above, is 99 percent owned by, and operated by, Monsanto. We buy additional elemental phosphorus from the global market. Prior to August 2003, Sandoz GmbH (formerly Biochemie GmbH) a wholly owned subsidiary of Novartis, was our only supplier of Posilac bovine somatotropin. In August 2003, we obtained approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to manufacture the powder, which is the active ingredient, for Posilac at our new plant in Augusta, Georgia. We are also seeking approval to manufacture the finished dose formulation of Posilac at this facility. Until that approval is obtained, powder manufactured at this facility will be shipped to Sandoz for formulation and final product preparation. After we receive approval to manufacture the finished dose formulation at Augusta, both powder and the finished dose formulation will be produced at both facilities. We produce directly, or contract with third party growers for the production of, corn seed, soybean seed, oilseed rape varieties, wheat seed, sunflower seed and sorghum seed in growing locations throughout the world. The availability and cost of seed primarily depends on seed yields, weather conditions, grower contract terms, commodity prices and global supply and demand. We manage commodity price fluctuations through the use of futures contracts and other hedging mechanisms. We attempt to minimize the risks related to weather by producing seed at multiple growing locations, where practical. 8 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K In general, where we have limited sources of raw materials or fuels, we have developed contingency plans to minimize the effect of any interruption or reduction in supply. These include supplier inventories, consigned inventories, dedicated excess manufacturing capacity, substitute materials and approved alternate sources of supply. While temporary shortages of raw materials may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements. Global sourcing strategies for key materials help ensure that new capacity is installed by our suppliers in time to meet our requirements at competitive prices. However, to some extent availability and price are subject to unscheduled plant interruptions caused by shortages of energy and petrochemical supplies. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Monsantos expenses for research and development were $330 million for the eight month transition period ended Aug. 31, 2003; and $527 million, $560 million, and $588 million, for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. SEASONALITY AND WORKING CAPITAL For information on seasonality and working capital practices, see information in Item 7, under the heading MD&A Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources, incorporated herein by reference. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS This portion of the Report on Form 10 K describes material legal proceedings that we are defending or prosecuting. These include proceedings to which we are party in our own name, as well as proceedings to which Pharmacia is a named party, but for which we have assumed responsibility pursuant to the Separation Agreement between ourselves and Pharmacia, effective Sept. 1, 2000. Under that agreement, we assumed responsibility for legal proceedings primarily related to the agricultural business that Pharmacia transferred to us on that date. As a result, although Pharmacia may remain the named defendant or plaintiff in some of these cases, we manage and are responsible for the litigation. In the following discussion, we may use the phrase the former Monsanto Company to refer to Pharmacia prior to the date of the Separation Agreement. As required by the Separation Agreement, in the proceedings where Pharmacia is the named defendant, we will indemnify Pharmacia for costs, expenses and any judgments or settlements; and in the proceedings where Pharmacia is the named plaintiff, we will pay the fees and costs of, and receive any benefits from, the litigation. We are also defending or prosecuting other legal proceedings, not described in this section, which arise in the ordinary course of our business. The litigation that we are defending or prosecuting does not include litigation that Solutia assumed from Pharmacia, and which is discussed in Relationships Among Monsanto Company, Pharmacia Corporation and Solutia Inc., below. While the results of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the resolution of the proceedings that we are defending or prosecuting (which exclude the Solutia matters discussed below), either individually or taken as a whole, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, profitability or liquidity. We have meritorious legal arguments and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in all of the proceedings that we are defending or prosecuting. Patent and Commercial Proceedings The following proceedings involve Mycogen Plant Science Inc. (Mycogen Plant Science), now part of Dow AgroSciences LLC, a subsidiary of The Dow Chemical Company: On May 19, 1995, Mycogen Plant Science filed suit against the former Monsanto Company in the U.S. District Court in California alleging infringement of its patent involving synthetic Bt genes, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. Monsanto prevailed on summary judgment in dismissing all claims. On May 30, 2001, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the summary judgment finding that current products of Monsanto do not infringe the Mycogen Plant Science patent. The appellate court also determined that certain factual issues prevented complete entry of summary judgment on the issue of prior invention by Monsanto and remanded the matter to District Court. Monsanto is defending the litigation on the basis of patent invalidity, prior invention and other defenses including collateral estoppel. We believe that a prior judgment won by the former Monsanto Company against Mycogen Plant Science, in U.S. District Court in Delaware, is dispositive of all claims asserted by Mycogen Plant Science. The District Court in California has scheduled a pretrial conference on this matter for Feb. 24, 2004, at which time it is expected to set a trial date. Monsanto is also involved in interference proceedings against Mycogen Plant Science in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the first party to invent certain inventions related to the synthetic Bt technology at issue in the California case. Under U.S. law, patents issue to the first to invent, not the first to file for a patent on, a subject invention. If two or more parties seek patent protection on the same invention, as is the case with our synthetic Bt technology, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office must hold interference proceedings to identify the party who first invented the particular invention in dispute. In prior litigation between the parties Monsanto has been determined to be the prior inventor of patent claims associated with synthetic Bt technology. The Board of Patent Appeals held its final hearing on this interference on Sept. 26, 2003, and is expected to issue its decision in December 2003. 9 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K The following proceedings involve Bayer CropScience AG (formerly Aventis CropScience S.A., previously Rhone Poulenc Agrochimie S.A.) (Bayer CropScience), a subsidiary of Bayer AG, and its affiliates: On Oct. 14, 2003, Monsanto announced the settlement of a number of lawsuits involving affiliates of Bayer CropScience. This settlement included a lawsuit filed on Jan. 10, 2003, by Bayer BioScience N.V. (Bayer BioScience) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (subsequently transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri), contending that a patent assigned to it by PGS and Bayer CropScience was infringed by Monsantos development and potential future sale of corn protected from corn rootworm. Monsanto filed suit the same day in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri to declare this patent invalid, non infringed and unenforceable. Dismissal papers have been filed with the court. On Nov. 20, 1997, Bayer CropScience filed suit in U.S. District Court in North Carolina against the former Monsanto Company and DEKALB Genetics Corporation (subsequently acquired by us) (DEKALB Genetics), alleging that because DEKALB Genetics had failed to disclose a research report involving the testing of plants to determine glyphosate tolerance, Bayer CropScience had been induced by fraud to enter into a 1994 license agreement relating to technology incorporated into a specific type of herbicide tolerant corn. Jury trial of the fraud claims ended April 22, 1999, with a verdict against DEKALB Genetics for $15 million in actual damages and $50 million in punitive damages. The damage awards have been paid in full. DEKALB Genetics appealed the jury verdict and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit upheld the judgment. The U.S. Supreme Court vacated the punitive damage award and remanded the case to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to reconsider the issue in light of the Supreme Courts punitive damages decision in State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. v. Campbell. On Sept. 29, 2003, the Federal Circuit once again affirmed the judgment of the District Court, stating that the central holding of State Farm had no bearing on the case. Monsanto will again request that the U.S. Supreme Court overturn the decision of the Federal Circuit. On Dec. 4, 2000, in view of threats of patent infringement made by Bayer CropScience against Monsantos licensees for its YieldGard corn, Monsanto filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, for a declaratory judgment against Bayer CropScience to invalidate four patents that had been assigned to Bayer CropScience by Plant Genetics Systems, N.V. (PGS). Monsanto successfully maintained that the patents, which involve claims to truncated Bt technology, were invalid and not infringed by MON810 in YieldGard corn. Bayer CropScience counterclaimed to request royalties for prior sales of YieldGard corn and injunctive relief. On Dec. 27, 2002, Monsantos motion for summary judgment was granted. Bayer CropScience has appealed the District courts judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and oral argument is scheduled for Dec. 4, 2003. Monsanto has requested award of its substantial legal fees in this matter in light of the District Courts finding of inequitable conduct against Bayer CropScience. The following proceedings involve affiliates of Syngenta AG: On July 25, 2002, Syngenta Biotechnology, Inc. (Syngenta Biotechnology) filed suit against Monsanto and Delta and Pine Land Company (Delta and Pine Land) in the U.S. District Court for Delaware alleging infringement of a patent issued in April 2000, under which Syngenta Biotechnology is a licensee, and which allegedly relates to certain agro transformed cotton technology products, including all of our current biotechnology cotton traits. Monsanto also is defending Delta and Pine Land, and will indemnify Delta and Pine Land for any damages, pursuant to its license agreement. Syngenta Biotechnology seeks injunctive relief and monetary damages. Trial is scheduled for Oct. 4, 2004. Monsanto has substantial defenses to the claims, including Syngenta Biotechnologys inequitable conduct in securing the patent, non infringement and invalidity of the patent on multiple bases, including failure to invent or make the subject matter claimed in the patent. On July 25, 2002, Syngenta Seeds, Inc. (Syngenta Seeds) also filed a suit against Monsanto, DEKALB Genetics, Pioneer Hi Bred International, Inc. (Pioneer), and Dow Agrosciences, L.L.C., Mycogen Plant Science and Agrigenetics, Inc., collectively d.b.a. Mycogen Seeds, in the U.S. District Court for Delaware alleging infringement of three patents issued between June 2000 and June 2002. The patents allegedly pertain to insect resistant transgenic corn, including our insect resistant corn traits. Syngenta Seeds seeks injunctive relief and monetary damages. The defendants have substantial defenses to the claims, including non infringement, non enforceability of the patents due to inequitable conduct before the U.S. Patent Office during the procurement of the patents, and invalidity of the various patents. Trial is scheduled for Nov. 29, 2004. Monsanto is defending several lawsuits which allege that, beginning in 1988, Monsanto and the former Monsanto Company conspired with competitors, through a series of negotiations and legal settlements, to fix the price of glyphosate based herbicides and paraquat based herbicides at prices higher than the market would otherwise bear. These 10 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K lawsuits all seek monetary damages. The following two cases have been consolidated and are currently pending in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, and were filed alleging claims on behalf of all direct purchasers of glyphosate based herbicides or paraquat based herbicides in the United States from March 1, 1988, to the present: (i) a suit filed by S&M Farm Supply, Inc. on Nov. 21, 2001, in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California; and (ii) a suit filed by Orange Cove Ag Chem and Sidehill Citrus Grove, Inc., on March 11, 2002, in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California. On Oct. 16, 2003, the District Court denied plaintiffs motion to certify these actions as class actions. Plaintiffs have asked for immediate appellate review of the District Courts decision. In addition, three other purported class action lawsuits alleging the same facts have been filed by individuals, and are pending in state courts in California and Tennessee. Grower Lawsuits Two purported class action lawsuits by farmers, concerning our biotechnology trait products, have been consolidated in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The suits were initially filed against the former Monsanto Company by two groups of farmers: one on Dec. 14, 1999, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia; and the other on Feb. 14, 2002, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois. In March 2001, plaintiffs amended their complaint to add Pioneer, Syngenta Seeds, Syngenta Crop Protection, and Bayer CropScience as defendants. The complaints included both tort and antitrust allegations. The tort claims included alleged violations of unspecified international laws through patent license agreements, alleged breaches of an implied warranty of merchantability, and alleged violations of unspecified consumer fraud and deceptive business practices laws, all in connection with the sale of genetically modified seed. The antitrust claims included allegations of violations of various antitrust laws, including allegations of a conspiracy among defendants to fix seed prices in the United States in violation of federal antitrust laws. Plaintiffs sought declaratory and injunctive relief in addition to antitrust, treble, compensatory and punitive damages and attorneys fees. On Sept. 22, 2003, the District Court granted Monsantos motion for summary judgment on all tort claims, and denied plaintiffs motion to allow the tort claims to proceed as a class action. On Sept. 30, 2003, the District Court denied plaintiffs motion to allow their antitrust claims to proceed as a class action. Plaintiffs have asked for immediate appellate review of the District Courts decision denying class certification of their antitrust claims. Proceedings Related to Delta and Pine Land Company On Jan. 18, 2000, Delta and Pine Land reinstituted a suit against the former Monsanto Company in the Circuit Court of the First Judicial District of Bolivar County, Mississippi, seeking unspecified compensatory damages for lost stock market value of not less than $1 billion, as well as punitive damages, resulting from alleged failure to exercise reasonable efforts to complete a merger between the two companies. The amended complaint alleges that the former Monsanto Company tortiously interfered with Delta and Pine Lands prospective business relations by feigning interest in the merger so as to keep Delta and Pine Land from pursuing transactions with other entities. On Sept. 9, 2003, the Court granted Monsantos motion to file a counterclaim seeking to set aside the merger agreement on the basis of Delta and Pine Lands fraudulent nondisclosure of material information, and substantial damages including recoupment of the $83 million breakup fee previously paid to Delta and Pine Land. The court has scheduled April 15, 2005, as the due date for final pretrial filings. No trial date has been set. We have substantial defenses to this litigation and the claimed damages, including: our payment of the break up fee; Delta and Pine Lands contemporaneous disclosures that it was unaffected by the failed merger; and representations by the U.S. Department of Justice that the merger would have been opposed by the agency. Agent Orange Various manufacturers of herbicides used by the U.S. armed services during the Vietnam War, including the former Monsanto Company, have been parties to lawsuits filed on behalf of veterans and others alleging injury from exposure to the herbicides. In the United States this litigation has been assigned to Judge Weinstein of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, as part of In re Agent Orange Product Liability Litigation, MDL 381, a multidistrict litigation proceeding established in 1977 to coordinate Agent Orange related litigation in the United States (MDL). In 1984, a settlement in the MDL proceeding concluded all class action litigation filed on behalf of U.S. and certain other groups of plaintiffs. Approximately 22 suits filed by individual U.S. veterans contesting the denial of their claims subsequent to the class action settlement have been consolidated in the MDL and are currently pending in the District Court. On Feb. 14, 2000, the District Court dismissed claims by two of these plaintiffs, on the ground that they were barred by the 1984 settlement. On Nov. 30, 2001, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated the District Courts dismissal, and on June 9, 2003, the U.S. Supreme Court failed to overturn the judgment of the Court of Appeals, thereby allowing these two claims to proceed notwithstanding the 1984 class action settlement. The District Court has scheduled a hearing on Jan. 12, 2004, on the issue of whether it retains jurisdiction over the two cases. Defendants have stated that they will file a motion to dismiss on the basis of the government contract defense, which has led to the dismissal of other Agent Orange related suits. Certain Korean veterans of the Vietnam War have filed suit in Seoul, South Korea, against The Dow Chemical Company and the former Monsanto Company. Plaintiffs allege that they were exposed to herbicides, and that they suffered injuries or their children suffered birth defects as a result. 11 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Three separate complaints filed in October 1999 are being handled collectively and currently involve approximately 16,700 plaintiffs. The complaints fail to assert any specific causes of action but seek damages of 300 million won (approximately $250,000) per plaintiff. On May 23, 2002, the Seoul District Court ruled in favor of the manufacturers and dismissed all claims of the plaintiffs on the basis of lack of causation and statutes of limitations. Plaintiffs have filed an appeal de novo with the Seoul High Court and the parties have started the briefing process required by that Court. Other ancillary actions are also pending in Korea, including a request for provisional relief pending resolution of the main action. Activities of Foreign Affiliates During an internal audit and follow up review conducted by management and outside counsel, management learned of certain books and records and compliance irregularities involving the companys Indonesian affiliate companies and certain of their foreign national employees. The employment of those employees involved in the irregularities has been terminated. The company notified the SEC of this matter on Nov. 12, 2002, and thereafter provided a full report of its internal review to the SEC, and provided a copy to the U.S. Department of Justice. The company will continue to cooperate with further review of this matter. For the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2003, and for the years ended Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001, the net combined revenues of the companys Indonesian operations were less than 0.8 percent of total company revenues. Their net income (loss) for these periods was ($7 million), $4 million and ($10 million), respectively, excluding restructuring charges of approximately $5 million in each of 2002 and 2001. Neither the commercial impact nor any action resulting from these matters is expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, profitability or liquidity. Environmental Proceedings Since the late 1990s, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has focused attention on the presence of dioxin in the Kanawha River in West Virginia. As part of its efforts in this regard, the EPA is conducting preliminary assessments at more than 20 sites identified as potential sources of dioxin in the Kanawha River. Among these sites are three landfills the Heizer Creek landfill, the Poca Strip Mine landfill, and the Manila Creek landfill that Pharmacia used in the late 1950s to dispose of plant waste from its former Nitro, West Virginia, manufacturing location. Through the preliminary assessment work, the EPA identified an elevated dioxin level in one soil sample taken at the Heizer Creek landfill, and notified Pharmacia of its potential liability at that landfill. Pursuant to a September 1999 consent order with the EPA, Pharmacia and (after Sept. 1, 2000) Monsanto prepared and submitted to the EPA an Engineering Evaluation/ Cost Analysis (EE/CA) Report, which contained, among other things, our recommended remedy. The cost to implement the recommended remedy was estimated at $1.5 million, and funds were reserved for this amount. The EPA has approved the EE/CA Report. As of this time, the EPA has not identified elevated dioxin levels at the Poca Strip Mine or Manila Creek landfills. Also with regard to the EPAs focus on dioxin in the Kanawha River, in May 2002, the EPA sent Monsanto, as well as Solutia, a notice of potential liability and offer to negotiate for removal action regarding the Kanawha River Site in Putnam and Kanawha counties, West Virginia. This communication was premised on Pharmacias former operations at the Nitro plant. Pharmacia, Solutia, and Monsanto have all been in communication with the EPA regarding the notice and offer. Monsanto believes that the Kanawha River Site is the responsibility of Solutia under the terms of the Distribution Agreement between Pharmacia and Solutia, and has tendered responsibility for it to Solutia, which has declined to accept the matter. Until responsibility for this matter is resolved with Solutia, Monsanto is managing it. The EPA and Monsanto are negotiating a consent order under which, if executed, Monsanto would prepare an EE/CA Report, which would contain the results of our investigation of dioxin contamination in the Kanawha River, an evaluation of removal options, and our recommended removal approach. At this point, the degree to which Monsanto/ Solutia/ Pharmacia, as opposed to third parties, will ultimately be responsible for costs associated with this matter is unclear. OTHER INFORMATION The company continues to cooperate with the U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, in connection with an inquiry regarding possible anticompetitive conduct in the glyphosate based herbicide industry. RELATIONSHIPS AMONG MONSANTO COMPANY, PHARMACIA CORPORATION AND SOLUTIA INC. Prior to Sept. 1, 1997, a corporation that was then known as Monsanto Company (Former Monsanto) operated an agricultural products business (the Ag Business), a pharmaceuticals and nutrition business (the Pharmaceuticals Business) and a chemical products business (the Chemicals Business). Former Monsanto is today known as Pharmacia Corporation. Pharmacia is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer, which together with its subsidiaries operates the Pharmaceuticals Business. Our business consists of the operations, assets and liabilities that were previously the Ag Business. Solutia Inc. comprises the operations, assets and liabilities that were previously the Chemicals Business. The following table sets forth a chronology of events that resulted in the formation of Monsanto, Pharmacia and Solutia as three separate and distinct corporations, and provides a brief background on the relationships among these three corporations. 12 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Date of Event Description of Event Sept. 1, 1997 Pharmacia (then known as Monsanto Company) entered into a Distribution Agreement with Solutia related to the transfer of the operations, assets and liabilities of the Chemical Business from Pharmacia (then known as Monsanto Company) to Solutia. Pursuant to the Distribution Agreement, Solutia assumed and agreed to indemnify Pharmacia (then known as Monsanto Company) for certain liabilities related to the Chemicals Business. Dec. 19, 1999 Pharmacia (then known as Monsanto Company) entered into an agreement with Pharmacia & Upjohn, Inc. (PNU) relating to a merger (the Merger). Feb. 9, 2000 We were incorporated in Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of Pharmacia (then known as Monsanto Company) under the name Monsanto Ag Company. March 31, 2000 Effective date of the Merger. In connection with the Merger, (1) PNU became a wholly owned subsidiary of Former Monsanto (now Pharmacia); (2) Former Monsanto changed its name from Monsanto Company to Pharmacia Corporation; and (3) we changed our name from Monsanto Ag Company to Monsanto Company. Sept. 1, 2000 We entered into a Separation Agreement with Pharmacia related to the transfer of the operations, assets and liabilities of the Ag Business from Pharmacia to us. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, we were required to indemnify Pharmacia for any liabilities primarily related to the Ag Business or the Chemicals Business, and for liabilities assumed by Solutia pursuant to the Sept. 1, 1997 Distribution Agreement, to the extent that Solutia fails to pay, perform or discharge those liabilities. Oct. 23, 2000 We completed an initial public offering in which we sold approximately 15 percent of the shares of our common stock to the public. Pharmacia continued to own 220 million shares of our common stock. July 1, 2002 We, Pharmacia and Solutia amended the Sept. 1, 1997 Distribution Agreement, to provide that Solutia will indemnify us for the same liabilities for which it had agreed to indemnify Pharmacia, and to clarify the parties rights and obligations. We and Pharmacia amended the Sept. 1, 2000 Separation Agreement, to clarify our respective rights and obligations relating to our indemnification obligations. Aug. 13, 2002 Pharmacia distributed the 220 million shares of our common stock that it owned to its shareowners via a tax free stock dividend (the Monsanto Spinoff). As a result of the Monsanto Spinoff, Pharmacia no longer owns any equity interest in Monsanto. April 16, 2003 Pursuant to a merger transaction, Pharmacia became a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer. The liabilities for which we were required to indemnify Pharmacia, pursuant to the Sept. 1, 2000, Separation Agreement, include the liabilities that Solutia assumed from Pharmacia in connection with the spinoff of Solutia on Sept. 1, 1997, to the extent that Solutia fails to pay, perform or discharge those liabilities. In general, this indemnification obligation applies to Pharmacia liabilities that were assumed by Solutia and which Pharmacia would otherwise be required to pay. These liabilities may include, among others, litigation, environmental remediation, and certain retiree liabilities relating to individuals who were employed by Pharmacia prior to the Solutia spinoff. These include liabilities that were Pharmacia liabilities prior to the spinoff of Solutia, and from which Pharmacia could not be released, either by operation of law, because of the unavailability of third party consents, or otherwise. Solutia has agreed to indemnify both Pharmacia and us for any liabilities that we incur in connection with the liabilities that Solutia assumed. Solutia is defending all litigation relating to the liabilities it assumed from Pharmacia, pursuant to powers of attorney granted by Pharmacia and by us. The litigation that Solutia is defending pursuant to the Distribution Agreement is described by Solutia in its Reports on Forms 10 K and 10 Q, filed with the SEC; since Solutia is defending this litigation, we do not participate in the preparation of those filings. The litigation that Solutia is defending has included litigation in state and federal courts in Alabama alleging personal injury, emotional distress and property damages arising from exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), which were discharged from an Anniston, Alabama, plant site that was formerly owned by Pharmacia and that was transferred to Solutia as part of the Solutia Spinoff. That litigation included, but is not limited to, Sabrina Abernathy, et al. v. 13 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Monsanto Company, et al., in state court in Alabama; and Antonia Tolbert, et al. v. Monsanto Company, et al., in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. In September 2003, the state and federal courts approved a global settlement of the Abernathy and Tolbert cases. Solutia will provide $50 million over time, and Solutia and Pfizer Inc., the parent company of Pharmacia, will also participate in an array of community initiatives. We provided $150 million to the settlement fund during August 2003, and $400 million during September 2003, and expect to receive approximately $155 million in reimbursement from Pharmacias commercial insurance. We and the insurer responsible for approximately $140 million of the reimbursement have agreed to mediation of a dispute regarding the amount due. The finalization of the settlement is contingent upon receipt of releases from plaintiffs in the Abernathy case, in numbers satisfactory to Solutia, Pharmacia and us. In consideration of our participation in the settlement, Solutia agreed to issue warrants to us for the purchase of up to 10 million shares of Solutia common stock, at a per share exercise price equal to $1.104 (the average closing price for the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the five trading days immediately prior to the announcement of the settlement). The warrants will be exercisable upon the execution of a Solutia change in control agreement, or when Solutias average closing stock price during a 30 day period exceeds $10 per share. The warrants will expire upon the earlier of 10 years after issuance, or seven days after a change in control of Solutia. The warrants will be issued upon the execution of a final warrant agreement between Solutia and us. On Oct. 27, 2003, a motion was filed in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama, contending that the recent global PCB settlement also requires the payment of additional funds to plaintiffs in Owens v. Monsanto, another Anniston related PCB case previously settled by Solutia. Monsanto, Solutia and Pharmacia believe that this motion is without merit and that no additional sums are owed to those plaintiffs. Solutia is currently defending itself and Pharmacia in Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of General Services, et al. v. United States Mineral Products, et al., a property damage suit currently pending in state court in Pennsylvania. The trial court has entered judgment in the amount of $59.5 million and Solutia has filed an appeal with the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. Under Pennsylvania law, a bond in the amount of 120 percent of the judgment, or $71.4 million in this case, must be posted in order to stay execution of the judgment pending appeal of the judgment. Pharmacia and Solutia requested our assistance to facilitate the posting of an appeal bond in this action. Pursuant to an agreement entered into with Pharmacia and Solutia on Nov. 15, 2002, as amended on March 3, 2003, we posted the required appeal bond, collateralized with a $25 million letter of credit, and Solutia provided letters of credit to us in the aggregate amount of $59.9 million to secure a portion of our obligations in connection with the appeal bond. Solutia also paid our out of pocket expenses in connection with obtaining the bond. Pursuant to a second amendment, dated Aug. 4, 2003, we agreed to release one of the letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $39.9 million, in exchange for the right to settle this litigation, including the right to access any applicable insurance policies related to a resolution of the underlying matter. Solutia continues to provide a $20 million letter of credit to secure a portion of our obligations in connection with the appeal bond. Notwithstanding the settlement of the Anniston litigation, Solutia has stated that it still faces significant business and liquidity risks. Therefore, we may still be called upon to indemnify Pharmacia; and may also determine that it is in our best interest to take additional action to reduce the likelihood or amount of any indemnification. Therefore, it is still reasonably possible that our obligation to indemnify Pharmacia could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, profitability and or liquidity. At the time of Solutias 1997 spinoff from Pharmacia, Solutia and Pharmacia entered into raw material supply contracts, including a 10 year requirements contract for the supply of formalin by Solutia. Because formalin is a raw material used in the production of glyphosate, this formalin supply contract was assigned to us when we separated from Pharmacia in 2000. In September 2003, Solutia and we amended this contract upon mutually beneficial terms. Pursuant to this amendment, we made a $25 million prepayment to Solutia for formalin. The prepayment must either be exhausted or the remainder returned to us in cash or credit against other product sales by Sept. 30, 2004. In consideration for making the prepayment, the duration of our obligation under the formalin supply contract was reduced. 14 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet Web site address is http://www.monsanto.com. We make copies of our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports available free of charge through our Internet Web site, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (1934 Act). Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed with respect to our equity securities under Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act are also available on the Web site, by the end of the business day after filing. All of these materials are located at the Investor Information tab. Our Web site also includes the following corporate governance materials, at the tab Our Pledge: our Code of Business Conduct; our Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers; our Board of Directors Charter and Corporate Governance Guidelines; and charters of Board committees. These materials are available in print to any shareowner upon request by contacting the Office of the General Counsel, Monsanto Company, 800 N. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63167. Information on our Web site does not constitute part of this Report. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. Our general offices are located in St. Louis County, Missouri. We also lease additional research facilities in St. Louis County. These office and research facilities are principal properties. We and our subsidiaries own or lease manufacturing facilities, laboratories, seed production and other agricultural facilities, office space, warehouses and other land parcels in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and Africa. Principal properties used by the Seeds and Genomics segment include seed conditioning plants at: Constantine, Michigan; Grinnell, Iowa; Kearney, Nebraska; Peyehorade, France; Rojas, Argentina; Uberlndia, Brazil, and Villagran, Mexico. The Seeds and Genomics segment also uses seed foundation and production facilities at various locations, breeding facilities, and genomics and other research laboratories. The Agricultural Productivity segment has principal chemicals manufacturing facilities at the following locations: Alvin, Texas; Antwerp, Belgium; Augusta, Georgia; Camaari, Brazil; Luling, Louisiana; Muscatine, Iowa; So Jose dos Campos, Brazil; Soda Springs, Idaho; Texas City, Texas; and Zarate, Argentina. Most of these properties are owned in fee. However, we lease the land underlying the facilities that we own in Alvin, Texas and in Texas City, Texas. In addition, we lease the manufacturing facility at Augusta, Georgia, with an option to buy, pursuant to an industrial revenue bond financing. Our principal properties are suitable and adequate for their use. Utilization of these facilities may vary with seasonal, economic and other business conditions, but none of the principal properties is substantially idle, with the exception of the manufacturing facility at Texas City, Texas. This is one of the facilities that manufactures a key raw material for glyphosate herbicide, and was built in order to utilize byproduct from a neighboring plant owned by another company. However, the neighboring plant currently is not supplying the byproduct. The facilities generally have sufficient capacity for existing needs and expected near term growth, and expansion projects are undertaken as necessary to meet future needs. In certain instances, we have granted leases on portions of sites not required for current operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. For information concerning certain legal proceedings involving Monsanto, see the following information which is incorporated herein by reference: Business Environmental Matters, Business Legal Proceedings, and Business Relationships Among Monsanto Company, Pharmacia Corporation and Solutia Inc. appearing in Item 1 of this Report; and MD&A Cautionary Statements: Risk Factors Regarding Forward Looking Statements, in Item 7 of this Report. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information regarding executive officers is contained in Item 10 of Part III of this Report (General Instruction G) and is incorporated herein by reference. 15 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS. Monsantos common stock is traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange, under the symbol MON. The number of shareowners of record as of Nov. 10, 2003, was 58,131. On Sept. 24, 2003, Monsanto declared a quarterly dividend on its common stock of $0.13 per share, which was paid on Oct. 31, 2003, to shareowners of record on Oct. 10, 2003. The current dividend rate reflects an 8 percent increase from the original $0.12 policy adopted by the board of directors following the IPO. The following table sets forth dividend information, as well as the high and low sales prices for Monsantos common stock, for the calendar quarters indicated. Note that because of the companys change in fiscal year end from December 31 to August 31 in 2003, only the first two quarters were reported for 2003. 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Dividends Per Share Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year 2003 $ 0.12 $ 0.12 N/A (1) N/A N/A 2002 $ 0.12 $ 0.12 $ 0.12 $ 0.12 $ 0.48 2001 $ 0.12 $ 0.12 $ 0.12 $ 0.12 $ 0.48 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Common Stock Price Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year 2003 High $ 19.88 $ 22.60 N/A (2) N/A N/A Low 13.55 15.69 N/A (2) N/A N/A 2002 High $ 33.13 $ 33.29 $ 19.10 $ 20.47 $ 33.29 Low 28.30 17.27 13.01 13.55 13.01 2001 High $ 35.680 $ 38.470 $ 38.800 $ 37.900 $ 38.800 Low 26.875 28.800 30.900 28.600 26.875 (1) During the period from July 1, 2003 through Aug. 31, 2003, Monsanto paid a dividend of $0.13 per share. (2) During the period from July 1, 2003 through Aug. 31, 2003, the high and low sales prices of Monsanto stock were $26.35 and $20.86, respectively. 16 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, Year Ended Dec. 31, (Dollars in millions, except per share and pro forma share amounts) 2003 2002 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 Operating Results: Net sales(1) $ 3,373 $ 3,110 $ 4,673 $ 5,462 $ 5,493 $ 5,248 $ 4,448 Income from operations 471 136 319 659 567 610 55 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change (11 ) 37 129 295 175 150 (125 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle(1,2,3) (12 ) (1,822 ) (1,822 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) (23 ) (1,785 ) (1,693 ) 295 149 150 (125 ) Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share and per Pro Forma Share:(4) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change $ (0.04 ) $ 0.14 $ 0.49 $ 1.12 $ 0.68 $ 0.58 $ (0.48 ) Net income (loss) (0.09 ) (6.78 ) (6.45 ) 1.12 0.58 0.58 (0.48 ) Financial Position at end of Period: Total assets $ 9,461 $ 9,151 $ 8,890 $ 11,429 $ 11,726 $ 11,101 $ 10,891 Working capital(5) 3,018 2,846 2,614 2,420 2,216 2,323 1,879 Current ratio(5) 2.55:1 2.66:1 2.44:1 2.02:1 1.80:1 2.36:1 2.01:1 Long term debt 1,258 1,148 851 893 962 4,278 4,388 Debt to capital(6) 23% 27% 19% 19% 19% 48% 53% Other Data (applicable for periods subsequent to IPO):(7) Dividends per share(8) $ 0.37 $ 0.36 $ 0.48 $ 0.48 $ 0.09 N/A N/A Stock price per share: High $ 26.35 $ 33.29 $ 33.290 $ 38.800 $ 27.380 N/A N/A Low $ 13.55 $ 13.01 $ 13.010 $ 26.875 $ 19.750 N/A N/A End of period $ 25.71 $ 18.37 $ 19.130 $ 33.800 $ 27.060 N/A N/A Diluted shares outstanding 261.7 263.2 262.6 263.6 258.5 N/A N/A Employees (at end of period) 13,200 14,000 13,700 14,600 14,700 N/A N/A See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information regarding the factors that have affected or may affect our business results. In July 2003, Monsantos board of directors approved a change in the companys fiscal year end from December 31 to August 31. Accordingly, data for 2003 presented in this report relates to the period from January 1 through August 31, otherwise known as the transition period. For all periods except the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, the operating results data, earnings (loss) per share and per pro forma share data, and financial position data set forth above are derived from Monsanto Companys audited consolidated financial statements. For the eight month period ended Aug. 31, 2002, this data is derived from unaudited consolidated financial statements. (1) In 2000, Monsanto adopted the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. Monsantos adoption of SAB 101 primarily affected its recognition of license revenues from biotechnology traits sold through third party seed companies. Monsanto adopted the provisions of SAB 101 as an accounting change, recognizing as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle a loss of $26 million ($0.10 per pro forma share) effective Jan. 1, 2000. Assuming SAB 101 is applied retroactively, net income and diluted earnings per pro forma share would have been higher by these amounts in 2000, and lower by these same amounts in 1999. (2) In 2002, Monsanto adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. In connection with the adoption of this new accounting standard, Monsanto recognized a transitional goodwill impairment charge of $1.8 billion aftertax ($6.94 per share) effective Jan. 1, 2002. (3) In 2003, Monsanto adopted SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. In connection with the adoption of this new accounting standard, Monsanto recorded a pretax cumulative effect of accounting change of $12 million aftertax ($0.05 per share) effective Jan. 1, 2003. (4) Diluted earnings per pro forma share for 2000 were calculated using 258 million weighted average common shares outstanding plus the effect of dilutive common share equivalents totaling 0.5 million, consisting of outstanding stock options. For all periods prior to 2000, diluted earnings per pro forma share were calculated using 258 million weighted average common shares, the number of common shares outstanding immediately after the IPO in October 2000. (5) Working capital is total current assets less total current liabilities; current ratio represents total current assets divided by total current liabilities. (6) Debt to capital is the total of short term and long term debt, divided by the sum of short term and long term debt and shareowners equity. Fluctuations in our debt to capital ratio from December 31 to August 31 were affected by the seasonality of our business. (7) Prior to Sept. 1, 2000, Monsanto was the agricultural business of Pharmacia Corporation and was not a separate corporate entity with shares outstanding or employees. (8) The dividend of $0.09 per share on the companys common stock declared in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2000 is prorated. It was based on a quarterly dividend rate of $0.12 per share, which reflected a policy adopted by the board of directors following Monsantos IPO. During 2003, the quarterly dividend amount was increased to $0.13 per share. 17 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. BACKGROUND Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of agricultural products and integrated solutions for farmers. We produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB and Asgrow, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. We also make Roundup herbicide and other herbicides. Our seeds, related biotechnology trait products and herbicides can be combined to provide growers with integrated solutions that improve productivity and reduce the costs of farming. We also provide lawn and garden herbicide products for the residential market and animal agricultural products focused on improving dairy cow productivity and swine genetics. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics, and Agricultural Productivity. The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related traits businesses, and genetic technology platforms. The Agricultural Productivity segment consists of the crop protection products, animal agriculture, lawn and garden herbicide products, and environmental technologies businesses. As discussed in Item 1 Business, Monsanto comprises the operations, assets and liabilities that were previously the agricultural business of Pharmacia, which is now a subsidiary of Pfizer. The consolidated financial statements for the period prior to Sept. 1, 2000, were prepared on a carve out basis to reflect the historical operating results, assets, liabilities, and cash flows of the agricultural business operations. The costs of certain services and debt service provided by Pharmacia included in the Statement of Consolidated Operations for this period were allocated to Monsanto based on methodologies that management believes to be reasonable, but which do not necessarily reflect what the results of operations, financial position, or cash flows would have been had Monsanto actually been a separate, stand alone entity before Sept. 1, 2000. Beginning Sept. 1, 2000, the consolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the company as a separate entity responsible for procuring or providing for itself the services and financing previously provided by Pharmacia. The consolidated financial statements also include the costs of services purchased from Pharmacia and the reimbursement for services provided to Pharmacia pursuant to a transition services agreement. MD&A should be read in conjunction with Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Unless otherwise indicated, earnings (loss) per share and per share mean diluted earnings (loss) per share; earnings (loss) per pro forma share and per pro forma share mean basic and diluted earnings (loss) per pro forma share. In the tables, all dollar amounts are expressed in millions, except per share and per pro forma share amounts. CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR END In July 2003, Monsantos board of directors approved a change to Monsantos fiscal year end from December 31 to August 31. This change aligns our fiscal year more closely with the seasonal nature of our business. In view of this change, MD&A compares the consolidated financial statements as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2003 (the transition period) with the consolidated financial statements as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002. References to 2003 refer to the transition period unless otherwise specified. Note that although consolidated financial statements are not presented as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, we have included summary information in MD&A for these periods for comparability purposes because of the seasonality of our business. We are also including a discussion and analysis of our financial statements for fiscal years ended Dec. 31, 2000, 2001, and 2002. Throughout the MD&A, data for all periods except as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which appear in this report. All data as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, are derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements, which are not presented herein. Summary financial information for this period can be found in Note 4 Change in Fiscal Year End. FINANCIAL MEASURES The primary operating performance measure for our two business segments is earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest, and income taxes (EBIT). We believe that EBIT is useful to investors and management to demonstrate the operational profitability of our segments by excluding interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire company on a consolidated basis. EBIT is also one of the measures used by Monsanto management in determining resource allocations within the company. We also provide information regarding free cash flow, an important liquidity measure for Monsanto. We define free cash flow as the total of net cash provided or required by operations and provided or required by investing activities. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors and management as a measure of the ability of our business to generate cash. This cash can be used for business needs and obligations, to reinvest into the company for future growth, or returned to our shareowners through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow is also one of the performance measures management uses to determine incentive compensation. 18 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K The presentation of EBIT and free cash flow information is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance and liquidity. Our EBIT and free cash flow measures may not be comparable to other companies EBIT and free cash flow measures. Furthermore, these measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of Financial Performance (transition period compared with eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002) We recognized a net loss of $23 million during the transition period, and a net loss of $1.8 billion during the comparable period last year. The following factors affected the eight month comparison: 2003: An aftertax charge of $12 million effective Jan. 1, 2003, upon adoption of a new accounting standard relating to asset retirement obligations An aftertax charge of $252 million in 2003 related to the settlement of Solutias polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) litigation 2002: A $1.8 billion aftertax transitional goodwill impairment charge, upon adoption of a new accounting standard relating to goodwill Establishment of a $100 million aftertax bad debt reserve in 2002 related to Argentine receivables Actions in 2002 to reduce risks in Latin America, due to economic and market uncertainties, that negatively affected results Charges relating to our 2002 restructuring plan A gain from sales of certain herbicide assets for use in certain ex U.S. markets On an ongoing business basis, our results in 2003 were affected by lower volumes and average net selling prices of Roundup herbicides in the United States. However, stronger sales of our seeds and traits in the United States mitigated this shortfall. During the transition period, our Seeds and Genomics segment delivered a greater gross profit contribution than that of the Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides. This milestone demonstrates the increasing contribution of that segment to our results. Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, 2003 2002 Net Sales $3,373 $ 3,110 Gross Profit 1,577 1,442 Operating Expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses 741 719 Bad debt expense 40 176 Research and development expenses 330 348 Restructuring charges net (5 ) 63 Total Operating Expenses 1,106 1,306 Income From Operations 471 136 Interest expense net 46 35 Settlement of PCB litigation 396 Other expense net 67 51 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change (38 ) 50 Income tax provision (benefit) (27 ) 13 Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change (11 ) 37 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax benefit (12 ) (1,822 ) Net Loss $ (23 ) $ (1,785 ) Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share: Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change $(0.04 ) $ 0.14 Cumulative effect of accounting change (0.05 ) (6.92 ) Net Loss $(0.09 ) $ (6.78 ) Net sales for the transition period increased 8 percent over the comparable period last year. Both of our operating segments benefited from improved performance in Latin America. In the eight month period last year, net sales were negatively affected by difficult economic conditions in that region, as well as the operational changes we made to our business to address the uncertainties there. In the Seeds and Genomics segment, U.S. seed and trait sales continued their strong growth in 2003, with seed and trait sales for all crops increasing during the eight month period. Sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment declined because of the continued shift toward lower priced Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides and lower U.S. Roundup volumes in the postpatent glyphosate market. Sales of our selective herbicides also declined. For a more detailed discussion of the factors affecting the net sales comparison, please see Seeds and Genomics Segment and Agricultural Productivity Segment. Gross profit for the transition period increased 9 percent, which was consistent with the 8 percent increase in net sales. Increases in Seeds and Genomics gross profit were partly offset by declines in Agricultural Productivity gross profit, as the continued growth of our Seeds and Genomics segment improved our margins this year. Better financial results in Latin America also improved the margin comparison this year, as the market factors in Latin America and our actions in response to those factors negatively affected our margins in 2002. Collectively, these items have improved the eight month 19 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K gross profit comparison. They have more than mitigated the effect of the shift in Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicide sales in the United States to lower priced products. During the eight month period, the gross profit of our seeds and traits business surpassed the gross profit contribution of our glyphosate business. We expect this trend to continue in fiscal year 2004 and beyond. As a percent of net sales, gross profit gained one point to 47 percent. Operating expenses decreased 15 percent for the eight month comparison. In June 2002, we increased our allowance for doubtful trade receivables by $154 million because of the economic turmoil and related market conditions in Argentina. We also recorded $63 million of net operating expenses related to the restructuring plan approved in 2002. These and other operating expenses last year were partially offset by a $25 million reduction in selling, general and administrative (SG&A) costs stemming from the sale of certain Monsanto herbicide assets in Japan to Nissan Chemical Industries (Nissan). SG&A expenses in 2003 also reflected a reduction, to a lesser extent, in costs related to agreements that are part of our ongoing business. During the transition period, our bad debt expense was significantly lower, and our operating expenses were reduced by $5 million in restructuring reversals related to our past restructuring plans. However, higher employee related costs, primarily accrued incentive compensation, drove SG&A expenses higher in 2003. Continued cost management helped offset some of this increase and also decreased R&D expenses by 5 percent. We are also continuing to see the benefits from our restructuring programs through lower R&D expenses. In August 2003, we participated in a global settlement, which included Solutia and Pharmacia, relating to certain Solutia PCB litigation in Alabama. Our strong cash generating capabilities allowed us to contribute to this settlement, thereby mitigating the longer term litigation risk associated with our contractual obligations related to Solutia. We paid a portion of our share of the cash settlement ($150 million) in August 2003, and the remaining $400 million was paid in September 2003. We expect to receive approximately $155 million in reimbursement from Pharmacias commercial insurance. We and the insurer responsible for approximately $140 million of the reimbursement have agreed to mediation of a dispute regarding the amount due. Miscellaneous receivables of $155 million have been recorded for the anticipated insurance reimbursement, approximately $140 million of which we expect to receive during fiscal year 2004, notwithstanding the mediation. As a result, we recorded a pretax charge of $396 million ($252 million aftertax, reflecting a tax benefit of $144 million) during the transition period. The net charge includes $1 million of related legal expenses. In consideration of our participation in the settlement, Solutia has agreed to issue warrants to us for the purchase of 10 million shares of Solutia stock. We will estimate and record the value of these warrants after the final warrant agreement with Solutia has been signed and the warrants have been received. Other expense net increased to $67 million during the transition period. Net other expense in 2003 consisted primarily of equity affiliate expense and foreign currency transaction losses. Our equity affiliate expense of $26 million is primarily related to our Renessen LLC (Renessen) joint venture. This joint venture is owned and funded 50 50 with Cargill Incorporated. It was formed to develop and market products for the grain processing and animal feed industries. During the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, we recorded approximately $20 million of other income related to sales of certain herbicide assets for use in ex U.S. markets, including the Nissan transaction in Japan and a smaller transaction with Nufarm Australia Ltd. (Nufarm) in the Australia and New Zealand markets. We also recognized $10 million of other income during the 2002 eight month period related to gains that were realized upon the sale of equity securities. These gains were slightly offset by net currency losses reflecting the devaluation of our net assets denominated in Argentine pesos. Net interest expense increased $11 million to $46 million during the transition period. Although our debt levels during the transition period were significantly lower than debt levels during the comparable period last year, higher interest rates associated with our long term senior notes led to overall higher interest expense. With the issuance of these notes, our debt mix has shifted from primarily commercial paper toward longer term borrowings, which carry higher interest rates. We recognized an income tax benefit of $27 million in 2003 on a pretax loss of $38 million. During the same period last year, we recognized an income tax provision of $13 million on $50 million of pretax income. The Solutia PCB litigation settlement expense in 2003 and the Argentine bad debt expense in 2002 significantly affected the eight month effective tax rate comparison. Without these items, the effective tax rate for both eight month periods would have been 33 percent. The factors above explain the change in income (loss) before the cumulative effect of accounting change. We had income of $37 million for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002; we had a loss of $11 million for the same period this year. Review of Calendar Year Financial Performance (calendar year 2002 compared to calendar year 2001, and calendar year 2001 compared to calendar year 2000) Year Ended Dec. 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net Sales $ 4,673 $ 5,462 $ 5,493 Income before cumulative effect of accounting change $ 129 $ 295 $ 175 Earnings per share (per pro forma share in 2000) $ 0.49 $ 1.12 $ 0.68 20 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Review of Calendar Year 2002 We recognized a net loss of $1.7 billion, or $6.45 per share, in 2002. This net loss included a $1.8 billion aftertax ($6.94 per share) goodwill impairment upon the adoption of a new goodwill accounting standard. In 2001, we recognized net income of $295 million, or $1.12 per share. The factors that affected the year to year comparison are discussed below. Net sales declined 14 percent to $4.7 billion in 2002 from $5.5 billion in 2001. Sales declined in both the Agricultural Productivity segment and, to a lesser extent, the Seeds and Genomics segment. In the Agricultural Productivity segment, continued competitive pressures on Roundup resulted in U.S. market share loss, and unfavorable weather conditions in key planting regions contributed to lower U.S. sales of Roundup. The effect of a shift in mix to lower priced glyphosate products also lowered U.S. sales of Roundup by decreasing the average net selling price. The Seeds and Genomics segment experienced higher seed sales in the United States. Higher corn seed sales were partly offset by lower soybean sales. Trait revenues in the United States increased in 2002, even though 2001 results included trait sales for more than one season because of our switch in 2001 to a royalty payment system for licensed traits in corn and soybeans. Both segments were affected in 2002 by economic conditions in Latin America (including the economic crisis that began in Argentina at the end of 2001), by operational changes we made to our business model to address the continued economic uncertainty and unfavorable market conditions there, and by the actions we took in conjunction with our customers in Argentina. Although these changes and actions significantly affected both segments EBIT through lower sales in Latin America and higher product returns in Argentina, they were intended to reduce investments in working capital and our credit risk and other exposures in Argentina and Brazil. Currency losses in Argentina also affected earnings in 2002 and, to a lesser extent, in 2001. In 2001, higher than anticipated returns of corn seed in Latin America primarily in Brazil negatively affected sales. For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors affecting net sales in 2001 and 2002, see Seeds and Genomics Segment and Agricultural Productivity Segment. Cost of goods sold declined 12 percent to $2.5 billion for 2002, reflective of lower sales. Excluding costs related to our restructuring plans, we were able to keep the unit manufacturing costs of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides flat, despite lower Roundup production volumes, which led to unfavorable cost of goods sold manufacturing variances. These costs were offset by cost management efforts and lower raw material and energy prices. Lower seed inventory costs in the United States were offset by higher seed obsolescence in Latin America. The combination of the aforementioned net sales and cost of goods sold factors resulted in an 18 percent decline in gross profit. As a percent of sales, gross profit declined one point. The gross profit effect of lower Roundup average net selling prices was slightly mitigated by increased sales of higher margin seed traits. Operating expenses in 2002 declined 6 percent from 2001, as a significant increase in Argentine bad debt expense was offset by the benefit of no longer amortizing goodwill, and by a decline in our expenses. SG&A expenses for 2002 declined 10 percent from 2001. These lower spending levels reflected cost management, lower employee incentives and other employee related costs, and an approximate $25 million reduction of costs stemming from the Nissan transaction in Japan. In 2002, we recorded $208 million of bad debt expense, the majority of which related to estimated uncollectible trade receivables in Argentina. The allowance for doubtful trade receivables included $154 million ($100 million aftertax) recorded in the second quarter because of the economic turmoil and market conditions in that country. The remaining bad debt expense in 2002 was in line with our historical experience. R&D expenses in 2002 decreased 6 percent from 2001, as we continued to focus our spending on seed breeding, plant biotechnology and genomics. The restructuring of our early genomics programs also contributed to the savings. Operating results in 2002 included the positive effect of SFAS 142, the new accounting standard related to the amortization of goodwill. Since we adopted SFAS 142 on Jan. 1, 2002, we no longer amortize goodwill. In comparison, we recorded $121 million ($106 million, or $0.40 per share aftertax) of amortization and adjustments of goodwill in 2001. Both 2002 and 2001 included charges relating to our restructuring plans. Results in 2002 included charges for our 2002 restructuring plan, and 2001 results included charges for our 2000 restructuring plan. Net pretax charges (including those recorded within cost of goods sold) related to our restructuring plans were $124 million in 2002, and $213 million in 2001. For further details on both plans, see Restructuring and Other Special Items in MD&A. Interest expense, net of interest income and capitalized interest, declined $14 million in 2002. We benefited from lower commercial paper interest rates during most of the year, as well as lower average borrowing levels. These benefits were partially offset by higher interest rates associated with our long term senior notes issued in August 2002. In 2001, higher interest capitalized on construction ($30 million in 2001 versus $8 million in 2002) reduced net interest expense, primarily associated with the construction of our Camaari, Brazil, facility, which was completed in late 2001. Other expense (net) in 2002 decreased significantly from other expense (net) in 2001. In both periods, other expense included equity affiliate expense of $41 million associated with our Renessen joint venture. Both 2001 and 2002 included gains realized upon the sale of equity securities (approximately $10 million in both years). On a year to year comparison, other expense (net) was affected by a number of 21 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K items. In 2002, these factors included the following: currency losses from net assets in Argentina, only partially offset by currency gains in Brazil; approximately $20 million of other income related to the Nissan and Nufarm transactions; and other expense related to a settlement of litigation matters with DuPont and DuPonts Pioneer subsidiary. In 2001, we recognized $127 million of other expense (net), as discussed below. Income taxes in 2002 decreased significantly from 2001, though the effective tax rate remained unchanged at 36 percent. The decline in income taxes was consistent with the lower pretax income in 2002. The absence of goodwill amortization had a favorable effect on the effective tax rate in 2002 because the majority of our historical goodwill amortization was not deductible for tax purposes. This improvement was offset by higher tax expense in certain ex U.S. jurisdictions, particularly in Latin America, and an increase in the relative cost of state income taxes. Review of Calendar Year 2001 Net sales for 2001 were $5.5 billion, down 1 percent from 2000 sales. The effects of exchange rates for foreign currency, particularly the Brazilian real and to a lesser extent the Japanese yen and the euro, unfavorably affected sales by 3 percent. Increased sales in the Seeds and Genomics segment were more than offset by an overall decline in sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment. Seeds and Genomics net sales in 2001 benefited from higher biotechnology trait revenues, and from our Latin American grain sales program, while higher than anticipated conventional corn seed returns in Latin America (primarily in Brazil) reduced sales. The increased trait revenues were attributable primarily to a shift in timing, as our decision to change trait fees from a technology fee system to a royalty system shifted certain trait revenues from the first half of 2002 to the last half of 2001. This new structure contributed approximately $90 million, or $0.34 per share, to 2001 net income. The higher trait revenues also reflected a royalty payment related to the resolution of issues regarding our YieldGard insect protected corn trait, the effects of a higher royalty rate for Roundup Ready soybeans, and the increased demand for our biotechnology traits. In the Agricultural Productivity segment, our animal agriculture and lawn and garden products businesses delivered sales increases. But these increases were more than offset by lower sales of Roundup and other glyphosate herbicides. Continued growth of Roundup Ready crops and further expansion of conservation tillage practices drove up sales volumes of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides, but the effects of lower average selling prices resulted in lower revenues. Cost of goods sold in 2001 increased 2 percent, to $2.8 billion, from cost of goods sold in 2000. Higher sales volumes of glyphosate contributed to this increase, as did start up expenses in 2001 associated with our new manufacturing facility in Camaari, Brazil. Our investments in improved technologies were part of our plan to increase overall glyphosate production capacity and to operate more cost effectively. Both years included charges to cost of goods sold related to our restructuring plan to focus on key crops and to streamline certain of our glyphosate manufacturing facilities. Excluding the costs related to our restructuring plan, we reduced unit manufacturing costs of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides by 3 percent. Gross profit declined 3 percent, to $2.6 billion. An increase in high margin trait revenues was more than offset by the negative effects of corn seed returns in Latin America and an overall decline in net selling prices of Roundup herbicides. As a result, gross profit as a percent of sales declined one point from 2000 to 2001. As a stand alone company focused solely on agriculture, we took steps to make worldwide operations more focused, productive, and cost efficient. SG&A expenses decreased approximately 5 percent to $1.1 billion in 2001. This decline was attributable to our continued cost management efforts and the absence of amortization expense related to certain assets that became fully amortized during 2000, and lower employee related expenses. R&D expenses decreased 5 percent, to $560 million for 2001 from $588 million for 2000. Our reduced R&D spending reflected our actions to focus on our key crops and to eliminate certain research projects. As a percent of net sales, both SG&A and R&D expenses improved when compared with 2000 percentages: SG&A expenses declined to 20.9 percent from 21.8 percent, and R&D declined to 10.3 percent from 10.7 percent. Amortization and adjustments of goodwill declined 43 percent to $121 million in 2001, compared with $212 million in 2000. In 2000, we wrote down $88 million of goodwill, primarily associated with a decision to terminate certain nutrition programs. Excluding this write down, amortization was relatively unchanged in a year over year comparison. Both 2001 and 2000 included restructuring and other special items related to our 2000 restructuring plan to focus on certain key crops and to streamline operations. Total charges to the plan were $474 million, with $213 million recorded in 2001 and $261 million recorded in 2000. See Restructuring and Other Special Items in MD&A for further details. Net interest expense in 2001 decreased 60 percent, to $73 million from $184 million in the prior year. This decrease largely reflected the $2.9 billion debt reduction that resulted from our separation from Pharmacia and our IPO in 2000. We also benefited from lower interest rates during 2001, as our borrowings were primarily in commercial paper. 22 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K A number of factors affected other expense (net) in 2001. It increased substantially to $127 million, compared with $49 million in 2000. Three separate legal matters affected other expense in 2001, resulting in a net charge of $60 million, as described in Note 24 Other Expense Net. In addition to these legal matters, we recognized $15 million of other expense in 2001 to reflect the devaluation of the Argentine peso. Other expense in 2001 also included a loss of $4 million related to the early retirement of ESOP debt. Other expense in 2001 also included impairments of equity investments; other expense in 2000 reflected a write down of an investment in marketable equity securities. Equity affiliate expense in 2001 related to our Renessen joint venture increased approximately $10 million from equity affiliate expense in the prior year. The effects of these higher expenses were slightly offset in 2001 by other income from a deferred payout provision related to a past business divestiture and gains on the sale of equity securities. Pretax income increased approximately 37 percent, or $125 million, in 2001 primarily because of reduced operating expenses and lower interest expense during the year. The absence of the $88 million goodwill write down in 2000 also contributed to the higher pretax income in 2001. The effective tax rate decreased to 36 percent from 48 percent in the prior year, primarily because the aforementioned write down of goodwill in 2000 was not deductible. See Restructuring and Other Special Items in MD&A for further details. Improved expectations of the recovery of certain Brazilian deferred tax assets also contributed to the lower effective tax rate in 2001. See Note 11 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Net income totaled $295 million, or $1.12 per share, for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, compared with $149 million, or $0.58 per pro forma share, for 2000. Results in 2000 included a cumulative effect of accounting change of $26 million aftertax, or $0.10 per pro forma share. This cumulative effect of accounting change resulted from our adoption of Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 101, the SECs interpretation of accounting guidelines on revenue recognition. Our adoption of SAB 101 in 2000 primarily affected recognition of license revenues from biotechnology traits sold through competitor seed companies. We restated license revenues in 2000 to be recognized when a grower purchases seed as compared with the previous practice of recognizing the license revenue when the third party seed company sold the seed into the distribution system. As a result, no license revenues from biotechnology traits sold by third party seed companies were recognized in the fourth quarter of 2000. As required by the provisions of SAB 101, we adopted its provisions as an accounting change recognizing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle as a loss of $26 million, net of taxes of $16 million, effective Jan. 1, 2000. SEEDS AND GENOMICS SEGMENT The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of our global seeds and related trait businesses, and our genetic technology platforms. We produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB and Asgrow, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We also provide genetic material and biotechnology traits to other seed companies for their seed brands. Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 2000 Total Net Sales $1,165 $ 845 $ 1,585 $ 1,707 $ 1,608 Gross Profit 625 377 838 869 729 EBIT(1) 18 (271 ) (105 ) (240 ) (581 ) (1) Earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes. See Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements for further details. Seeds and Genomics Financial Performance for the Transition Period Sales in the Seeds and Genomics segment improved more than $300 million, with all crops experiencing gains in seed and trait sales. The largest gains were in Latin America and the United States. In Latin America, seed sales were depressed last year, when we recorded additional return accruals in Argentina in response to the contracting market that was affected by that countrys economic crisis. We saw higher corn seed sales and less seed obsolescence there this year. This lower return and obsolescence experience in the region stemmed from improved market conditions, coupled with the benefits of the operational changes we instituted last year. However, the primary sales activity in Argentina occurs at the beginning of fiscal year 2004 (which starts in September 2003), when the predominant planting season starts. In Brazil, the sales season begins during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year (which starts in June). Favorable currency effects and strong market performance in Europe also contributed to corn seed growth. Our operations in France led the strong performance in that region, delivering a market share gain this year. Continued growth of our stacked corn and cotton traits drove U.S. sales higher. These higher value stacked trait products deliver herbicide tolerance and insect protection in a single seed. Canola trait revenues also increased in the eight month comparison. An increasing percentage of our seed sales contain a biotechnology trait, demonstrating continued growth in demand for our biotechnology products. U.S. trait acreage continues to experience double digit growth, with particularly strong performance by Roundup Ready corn and stacked corn and cotton traits. U.S. corn seed sales also increased. The quality of Monsantos corn seed portfolio was evidenced by another market share gain on top of last years gain in the United States. The Seeds and Genomics segment delivered positive EBIT of $18 million for the transition period. This is a significant improvement over the EBIT loss of $271 million in the same period last year. Gross profit as a percent of sales increased 9 percentage points. Although these gains primarily 23 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K reflect improved Latin American operations in 2003, they also demonstrate the Seeds and Genomics segments increasing contribution to Monsantos results. Segment EBIT for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, included charges for restructuring and additional bad debt expense related to Argentine receivables. The transition period EBIT reflected higher SG&A expenses, as the effects of higher incentive accruals and other employee related costs were partially offset by reductions in other SG&A and R&D costs. Seeds and Genomics Financial Performance for Calendar Year 2002 Net sales for the Seeds and Genomics segment declined to $1.6 billion in 2002. Sales in Latin America were negatively affected by the adverse market and economic conditions described below. The Latin American net sales decline was partially offset by strong U.S. sales and market performance of our branded corn seed. Trait revenues also increased from 2001 to 2002, despite the fact that 2001 trait revenues included an additional $0.34 per share from a timing change in revenue recognition. Grower acceptance of our biotechnology traits continues to rise, as demonstrated by the growth in total acres planted with our traits. In 2002, we estimate that acreage planted with Monsantos technology traits grew by 13 percent in the United States and by 14 percent globally. Also contributing to the increased trait revenues was the benefit and growth of new agreements with key licensees. Seeds and Genomics segment results in 2002 were significantly affected by events in Latin America. In 2002, we changed our business model in Latin America in order to reduce working capital levels and reduce our credit risk and exposure in Argentina and Brazil as a result of the continued economic uncertainty in that region. Results were also affected by adverse market conditions in 2002 and 2001. In Argentina, we experienced approximately $75 million of higher than anticipated seed returns (primarily corn seed) in 2002 because of the economic crisis that began at the end of 2001 and the flooding in that same year. In 2001, we experienced approximately $120 million of higher than anticipated returns of high priced corn seed, primarily in Brazil. In 2002, the continued deterioration of the Brazilian corn market negatively affected sales. Farmers had switched more land to soybeans because of their lower input costs. Since Monsanto has less of a presence in the Brazilian soybean market, sales were lower during that period. Our Latin American grain sales program also affected the year to year comparison. Results in 2001 included approximately $65 million of net sales and related cost of goods sold associated with this program. During 2002, we changed the way we account for the program to no longer record revenues and cost of goods sold of essentially the same amount. Under the revised program, we no longer take ownership of the grain, thereby eliminating the associated inventory risk. Although this change affects our net sales and cost of goods sold comparison, the effect on the EBIT year to year comparison is minimal. Corn seed and corn biotechnology trait revenues in the United States increased, reflecting an increase in planted corn acreage in 2002 and strong market performance by our DEKALB and Asgrow brands during the 2002 selling season. Our branded corn seed gained market share in 2002. Monsantos Roundup Ready and YieldGard corn traits both the single trait and the stacked trait versions performed exceptionally well. A decline in U.S. soybean seed and soybean trait revenues, which stemmed from the reduced planting area, slightly offset these corn seed and trait sales increases. However, despite the market dynamics of lower acres and an increased supply of seed, our soybean brands maintained their price in 2002, and held most of the market share gains achieved in 2001. Even though there were fewer planted acres of soybeans in 2003, U.S. soybean trait revenues in late 2002 (in preparation for the upcoming 2003 season) increased as a higher percentage of our branded seed sales contained a biotechnology trait. Seeds and Genomics EBIT in 2002 was a loss of $105 million, an improvement compared with the 2001 EBIT loss of $240 million. This EBIT improvement was achieved despite an overall decline in sales for the segment. Most of our goodwill relates to our acquired seed businesses, so this segments EBIT benefited from no longer amortizing goodwill in 2002. In 2001, this segments EBIT loss included $117 million of goodwill amortization expense. In 2002, Seeds and Genomics EBIT was negatively affected by a portion of the increase in bad debt expense related to estimated uncollectible accounts receivable in Argentina. Lower seed inventory costs in the United States were mostly offset by higher seed obsolescence in Latin America. However, gross profit as a percentage of sales increased. Sales gains in high margin traits more than offset the Latin American gross profit declines. Lower operating expenses had a positive effect on EBIT. SG&A spending was lower as a result of our continued focus on cost management and lower employee related costs. R&D expenses also declined, reflecting savings from the restructuring of our early genomics programs. Several items affected other expense (net) in both years, including litigation matters and other income related to gains that were realized upon the sale of equity securities. For more details, see Note 24 Other Expense Net. Seeds and Genomics Financial Performance for Calendar Year 2001 Net sales for the Seeds and Genomics segment totaled $1.7 billion in 2001, topping 2000 sales of $1.6 billion by more than 6 percent. Revenues from our biotechnology traits increased significantly compared with year earlier sales, because of a number of factors. Higher trait revenues, primarily in the United States, were driven by increased demand for our technologies (including higher value stacked traits), a higher Roundup Ready soybean royalty rate, and to a greater extent, a shift in timing. A new pricing structure and approach to the market starting with the 2002 selling season resulted in a shift in the recognition of certain trait 24 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K revenues from third party seed companies from the first half of 2002 to the last half of 2001, and contributed approximately $90 million, or $0.34 per share, to 2001 net income. This change from a technology fee system to a royalty system in the United States was intended to simplify the purchase of seed with our traits, and to allow seed companies to have more flexibility in pricing their products. Net sales in 2001 also included trait revenues received from Pioneer upon resolution of issues related to our MON810 YieldGard products. These revenues reflected royalties related to MON810 YieldGard products sold during 2001. Stronger cotton revenue reflected higher demand for and use of biotechnology traits, particularly our stacked Bollgard and Roundup Ready traits. Conventional soybean seed sales also increased, as more U.S. acres were planted in soybeans in 2001. More than 70 percent of the U.S. planted soybean acres contained our Roundup Ready trait in 2001. Worldwide, the number of acres planted with our biotechnology traits increased approximately 14 percent to 118 million acres in 2001, from 103 million acres in 2000. Our 2001 sales results also benefited from approximately $65 million in net sales related to our Latin American grain sales program. This program, which helped reduce our credit risk during 2001, increased net sales but contributed minimally to gross profit and EBIT. Lower conventional corn seed sales in Latin America offset these net sales increases, as higher than anticipated returns of relatively high priced corn seed negatively affected 2001 sales by approximately $120 million. These seed returns resulted from our strategic decision in 2000 to sell higher performance corn seed. Many farmers chose not to plant that seed, which resulted in substantial returns of relatively high priced corn seed in 2001. Corn seed sales in the United States also decreased. Fewer acres were planted in corn in 2001, partly because many U.S. farmers chose to plant more acres in soybeans. Seeds and Genomics segment EBIT improved to a loss of $240 million in 2001, from a loss of $581 million in 2000. Higher net sales and continued cost management drove the EBIT improvement. Restructuring and other special items affected EBIT during 2000 and, to a much lesser extent, during 2001. The 2000 special items included a significant write down of goodwill, and higher net charges than those recorded in 2001 related to our plan to focus on certain key crops. EBIT in 2001 also included the net effects of certain legal matters. Gross profit for the Seeds and Genomics segment increased 19 percent from 2000 gross profit. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit improved 6 points. This improvement was fueled by higher sales of relatively high margin trait revenues, which more than mitigated the negative effects of the corn seed returns in Latin America and lower corn seed sales in the United States. As previously discussed, our 2001 results benefited from a change in the marketing approach on trait fees. Lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by higher inventory obsolescence expense. Declines in operating expenses reflected our cost management efforts as we narrowed our focus to certain key crops. SG&A expenses declined 12 percent in 2001, and R&D expenses declined 7 percent. The SG&A improvement also benefited from the absence of amortization related to certain seed assets that became fully amortized during 2000, as well as lower employee related expenses. As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses improved by 9 points. Other expense (net) increased $25 million in 2001, largely because of the Aventis and DuPont litigation matters. The devaluation of the Argentine peso, higher equity affiliate expense related to our Renessen joint venture, and impairments of equity investments also drove other expenses higher. These items were slightly offset by the gain on the sale of equity investments. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY SEGMENT The Agricultural Productivity segment consists of our crop protection products (Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides and selective chemistries) and our animal agriculture, lawn and garden herbicides, and environmental technologies businesses. We are a leading worldwide developer, producer and marketer of crop protection products, including Roundup herbicide. Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 2000 Net Sales Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides $1,319 $ 1,360 $ 1,844 $ 2,422 $ 2,625 All other agricultural productivity products 889 905 1,244 1,333 1,260 Total Net Sales $2,208 $ 2,265 $ 3,088 $ 3,755 $ 3,885 Gross Profit Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides $ 536 $ 661 $ 823 $ 1,234 $ 1,433 All other agricultural productivity products 416 404 519 542 561 Total Gross Profit $ 952 $ 1,065 $ 1,342 $ 1,776 $ 1,994 EBIT(1) $ (10 ) $ 356 $ 366 $ 772 $ 1,099 (1) Earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes. See Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements for further details. Agricultural Productivity Financial Performance for the Transition Period EBIT for the Agricultural Productivity segment declined to a loss of $10 million, from positive EBIT of $356 million for the same period of 2002. Excluding the $396 million effect of the Solutia PCB settlement, segment EBIT would have shown a $30 million increase. Improved operations in Latin America and lower costs more than offset reduced U.S. sales. Agricultural Productivity net sales in the transition period declined 3 percent from net sales in the comparable period in 2002. Lower U.S. sales of Roundup were partially offset by sales gains for Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides elsewhere. As expected, in the postpatent U.S. market, 25 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K we continue to experience competitive pressures and a shift of sales volumes to our lower priced branded and non branded glyphosate products. As a result, the average net selling price of Roundup branded products in the United States during the transition period was about 24 percent lower than it was during the comparable period in the previous year. In addition, volumes sold to distributors during the transition period were less than end user usage, which also reduced net sales. Volumes of branded Roundup declined 9 percent for the transition period. In 2002, adverse weather conditions reduced the amount of glyphosate used in the U.S. over the top market. In the near term, we continue to expect lower market share and lower average net selling prices and market share for Roundup in the postpatent environment. Improved performance of glyphosate based herbicides outside the United States partially offset the U.S. net sales decline. Worldwide, volumes of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides grew. Roundup sales in Latin America improved from those in 2002, when the economic crisis in Argentina and the operational changes we made in the region caused sales to be lower for that period. We also benefited from increased demand from supply customers other herbicide producers to whom we sell glyphosate, capitalizing on our manufacturing economies of scale. The Asia Pacific region also experienced higher sales volumes during the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2003, led by increased demand from supply customers and by more favorable weather conditions in Australia. However, these gains in Asia Pacific were partly offset by a net sales decrease in Japan, because of our 2002 sale of certain herbicide assets to Nissan. Net sales of our other Agricultural Productivity products declined $16 million during the transition period. Selective herbicide sales were down, primarily because of lower sales in the U.S. acetanilide market. This trend reflects the competitive nature of this market and continued adoption of Roundup Ready corn traits. Sales in 2003 were also negatively affected by wet weather, which led to some of this seasons acetanilide applications being lost. Distributors were also conservatively managing their inventories, which also lowered our sales this period. The animal agriculture business reported moderately lower sales of Posilac bovine somatotropin in an extremely weak milk price environment during the first eight months of 2003. Higher sales of lawn and garden herbicides partially offset these sales declines, as the business benefited from favorable early season weather in the western United States and favorable exchange rates outside the United States. Lawn and garden sales were also higher because of an increase in the number of retail outlets and continued communication of product benefits via national television advertising. We are party to an agency and marketing agreement with Scotts with respect to our lawn and garden herbicide business. For additional details, see Our Agreement with Scotts, appearing elsewhere in this section. As noted earlier, EBIT for the segment was down for the transition period. Significantly lower restructuring costs in 2003 and unusually high bad debt expense in Argentina in 2002, as well as improved operations in Latin America, partially offset the Roundup sales decline and the PCB settlement. Continued cost management also helped lessen the EBIT effect of the lower sales of Roundup, though SG&A expenses were slightly higher overall because of higher employee related costs. Segment results in 2002 also included gains from the Nissan transaction. Our Agreement with Scotts In 1998, Monsanto entered into an agency and marketing agreement with Scotts with respect to our lawn and garden herbicide business. Under the agreement, beginning in the fourth quarter of 1998, Scotts was obligated to pay us a $20 million fixed fee each year to defray costs associated with the lawn and garden business. Scotts payment of a portion of this fee owed in each of the first three years of the agreement was deferred and is required to be paid at later dates, with interest. Monsanto is accruing the deferred portions of the $20 million annual fixed fee owed by Scotts ratably over the periods during which it is being earned as a reduction of SG&A expenses. We are also accruing the interest on the amounts owed by Scotts and including it in interest income. The total amount owed by Scotts, including accrued interest, was approximately $50 million as of Aug. 31, 2003 and Dec. 31, 2002, and $48 million at Dec. 31, 2001. Scotts began paying these deferred amounts ($5 million per year in monthly installments beginning in October 2002). Agricultural Productivity Financial Performance for Calendar Year 2002 The 2002 decline in Agricultural Productivity segment net sales was largely attributable to lower sales of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides. Lower sales of these products was driven by a decline in both volumes and average net selling prices, with the largest declines in the United States and Argentina. In the United States, 2002 net sales of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides were down 24 percent from 2001 net sales. Market share loss because of continued competitive pressures in the burndown market, and to a lesser extent the over the top market, contributed to the lower volumes. In addition, adverse weather conditions in the second and third quarters of 2002 reduced the amount of glyphosate used in the over the top, fallow, and postharvest markets. As a result, the overall growth of the U.S. market was lower than expected, with sales volumes of Roundup in the United States declining 17 percent. In 2002, average net selling prices of branded Roundup in the United States declined approximately 11 percent from 2001 average net selling prices. The lower average net selling prices included the effect of continued competitive pressures and a shift in mix to lower priced glyphosate products. Year end distribution inventory levels of Roundup in the United States were roughly flat when compared with 2001 year end levels. In 26 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K 2002, we successfully began the launch of Roundup WeatherMAX, a new high performance formulation of Roundup that provides consistent weed control in a variety of less than ideal weather conditions. Poor economic conditions and the operational decisions we made to reduce our risk of doing business in Latin America negatively affected sales of Roundup in 2002. These operational changes included working with our customers in Argentina during this difficult time to maintain our long term customer relationships, thereby reducing risks for both parties. Because of the economic conditions in Argentina brought on by the economic crisis that began late in 2001 and continued into 2002, we allowed some crop protection product returns on a case by case basis. This one time exception to our policy regarding crop protection product returns reduced sales of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides by approximately $60 million in 2002. Roundup sales in Brazil declined as well, as distribution inventory levels decreased in that country. In Latin America, we intend to keep our distribution inventories at the lower levels achieved in 2002. In Asia, competitive pricing of generic products decreased sales early in 2002. In addition, sales in Asia declined for the year as a result of the mid year Nissan transaction. Overall sales of our other Agricultural Productivity businesses declined, though sales in our lawn and garden herbicides and animal agriculture businesses increased. Sales of our U.S. acetanilide products declined because of the adverse weather conditions discussed above and competitive conditions. Sales in our environmental technologies business also declined because of unfavorable industry conditions. These declines were slightly mitigated by growth in our animal agriculture business, which was led by an 8 percent increase in sales volumes of Posilac. The lawn and garden herbicide business delivered strong sales growth, resulting from growth in the market and market share gains driven by new product introductions and stronger advertising. These factors led to an overall decline in EBIT for the segment in 2002, with the most notable effects coming from declines in the United States and Latin America, driven primarily by lower sales as discussed previously. Lower production volumes of Roundup led to unfavorable cost of goods sold manufacturing volume variances, but these effects were offset by cost management efforts and lower prices for raw materials and energy. Segment EBIT was negatively affected by the increase in bad debt expense relating to estimated uncollectible accounts receivable in Argentina. Our environmental technologies business also experienced an EBIT decline. Lower operating expenses slightly mitigated these margin shortfalls. The sales of certain herbicide assets to Nissan and Nufarm for use in Asia Pacific markets reduced SG&A expenses and provided other income. These EBIT gains were partially offset by lower herbicide sales in Asia. SG&A expenses also declined because of continued cost management and lower employee related expenses. In addition, our R&D spending was lower in 2002, as we continued to focus our spending. Manufacturing efficiencies in our Posilac business allowed us to reduce cost of goods sold for that business, even while animal agriculture sales increased. Agricultural Productivity Financial Performance for Calendar Year 2001 In the Agricultural Productivity segment, net sales decreased 3 percent to $3.8 billion in 2001, from $3.9 billion in 2000. Lower herbicide sales offset higher sales from other agricultural productivity businesses, including lawn and garden products and animal agriculture. Worldwide net sales of our Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides of $2.4 billion in 2001 declined 8 percent from 2000 net sales of $2.6 billion. Sales volumes of these products grew 2 percent, with Roundup volumes relatively unchanged and volumes of glyphosate that we manufacture and supply to third parties up 9 percent. The United States and Latin America posted volume gains on the growth of Roundup Ready acres, and the adoption of conservation tillage practices increased in major world areas. However, major flooding and economic uncertainty in Argentina negatively affected volumes, as did adverse weather conditions in Australia and Canada. In certain world areas (Brazil and the United States, in particular), market conditions had increased distribution channel inventories. The effect of generic competition in certain ex U.S. markets brought sales prices of Roundup down. The effects of currency fluctuations in Brazil and Asia also unfavorably affected sales prices. Excluding the effects of currency fluctuations, worldwide prices of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides declined nearly 6 percent. Sales volumes of Roundup in the United States increased 9 percent during our first full year without glyphosate patent protection, while a decline in the prices of these products, driven primarily by the mix of products sold, resulted in an overall decline in net sales. Roundup Ready acres, conservation tillage growth, expanded distribution of higher value Roundup UltraMAX and successful introductions of unique formulations of Roundup (such as RT Master) contributed to the U.S. volume increase. Net sales of our other Agricultural Productivity products totaled $1.3 billion, a 6 percent increase from net sales in 2000. The lawn and garden business delivered a strong sales performance, driven by volume growth. Our animal agriculture business also contributed to the growth, led by an increase in sales of Posilac. Results in 2001 also benefited from the inclusion of sales from a previously unconsolidated investment, which was consolidated during the first half of 2000, when we acquired a controlling interest. Global sales of acetanilide and other selective herbicides were lower in 2001, primarily because of adverse weather conditions in Argentina and Canada. EBIT for the Agricultural Productivity segment declined 30 percent to $772 million in 2001, compared with $1.1 billion in 2000. This decrease was because of lower gross profit and a higher level of restructuring and special items in 2001 than 27 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K in 2000. Gross profit for the segment declined approximately 11 percent, and gross profit as a percent of sales declined 4 percentage points. Lower Roundup prices, including the effects of foreign currency exchange rates and mix of products sold, were the primary contributors to this decline. In addition, 2001 results included sales and cost of goods sold related to the previously unconsolidated investment discussed above. Although we reduced glyphosate unit manufacturing costs in 2001, gross profit was adversely affected by our actions to streamline manufacturing facilities. An EBIT improvement for the animal agriculture business can be attributed to increased sales of Posilac and more efficient manufacturing performance. Operating expenses declined 1 percent, partially attributable to lower employee related costs. Operating expenses as a percent of sales increased by one percentage point, primarily because of lower sales. Other expense (net) increased by approximately $50 million, as a result of a litigation settlement and the devaluation of the Argentine peso. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER SPECIAL ITEMS Our results include restructuring activities and other special items that significantly affected net income. See Note 5 Restructuring and Other Special Items for further details. The pretax income (expense) components were as follows: Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2001 2000 Restructuring charges $ $ (88 ) $ (99 ) $ (70 ) Reversal of restructuring reserves 8 13 (1) 8 4 Write offs of: Trade receivables (12 ) Inventories (6 ) (45 ) (60 ) Property, plant and equipment (45 ) (57 ) (22 ) Goodwill (2 ) (88 ) Other intangible assets (3 ) (3 ) Other assets (9 ) Recoverable amount from a third party 2 Other net (6 ) (10 ) Total pretax restructuring and other special items $ 8 $ (124 ) $ (213 ) (2) $ (261 ) (2) (1) Of this amount, $8 million of the 2002 reversals related to the 2000 restructuring plan. The remaining $5 million was related to the 2002 restructuring plan. (2) These components represent the net charges for the 2000 restructuring plan. The total for the two year plan is $474 million. 2002 Restructuring Plan (charges recorded in calendar 2002): In 2002, Monsantos management approved a restructuring plan. Under this plan, various R&D programs and sites were shut down in the United States and Europe. This restructuring plan also involved the closure and downsizing of certain agricultural chemical manufacturing facilities in Asia Pacific and the United States as a result of more efficient production capacity installed at other Monsanto manufacturing sites. Certain seed sites were consolidated and certain U.S. swine facilities were exited. Finally, the plan included work force reductions in addition to those related to the facility closures. These additional reductions were primarily marketing and administrative positions in Asia Pacific, Europe Africa, and the United States. In connection with the 2002 restructuring plan, we recorded $132 million pretax of net charges in 2002. These restructuring costs primarily related to the closure of certain research and manufacturing sites, as well as work force reductions. Work force reductions of $64 million included involuntary employee separation costs for approximately 1,140 employees worldwide, including positions in marketing, manufacturing, R&D, and administration. As of Aug. 31, 2003, approximately 1,080 of the planned employee separations were completed. Facility closures and other exit costs totaled $24 million: contract terminations ($8 million), equipment dismantling and disposal ($8 million), and other shutdown costs ($8 million) resulting from the exit of certain research and manufacturing sites. We also wrote off $45 million of property, plant and equipment and $6 million of inventories (recorded within cost of goods sold) associated with these exit activities. Restructuring reversals of $5 million offset these charges in 2002, as did a $2 million recoverable amount from a third party. The reversals stemmed primarily from facility closing costs that were lower than originally estimated and higher proceeds from disposed assets than originally estimated. Restructuring reversals were recorded for work force reductions, primarily because severance expenses were lower than originally estimated. The recoverable amount from a third party represents a portion of work force reduction and exit costs that will be reimbursed to Monsanto. Reversals of $5 million were recorded in 2003 because we were able to settle certain liabilities for less than originally estimated. As of Aug. 31, 2003, the reserve balance related to this plan was $5 million. Cash payments to complete these restructuring actions are expected to be made during fiscal year 2004, and will be funded from operations. These payments are not expected to affect the companys liquidity significantly. We anticipate that the actions related to this plan will yield annual cash savings of more than $50 million. 2000 Restructuring Plan (charges recorded in calendar 2001 and 2000): In 2000, Monsantos management formulated a plan as part of our overall strategy to focus on certain key crops and to streamline operations. Restructuring and other special items, primarily associated with the implementation of this plan, were recorded in 2000 and 2001. These charges totaled $474 million pretax, with $261 million recorded in 2000, and $213 million recorded in 2001. The 2001 net charges were primarily for the streamlining of manufacturing operations, the discontinuation of certain seed hybrids, the elimination of noncore activities, and the exit of certain research programs. This plan also involved the closure and downsizing of certain agricultural chemical 28 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K manufacturing facilities to eliminate duplicate manufacturing capacity to formulate and package herbicides. Due to geographical location and cost considerations, improved technologies were installed at other Monsanto manufacturing sites. These sites, by incorporating technological advancements, have been able to increase their production capacity to meet current and expected future demand for Roundup herbicide and other herbicides. The pretax charge of $213 million was partially offset by the reversal of $8 million of restructuring liabilities recorded during 2000 and 2001, primarily because severance expenses were lower than originally estimated. In addition, reversals of $4 million were recorded in 2001 primarily because severance expenses relating to the 1998 restructuring plan were lower than originally estimated. The work force reduction charges in 2001 ($50 million) and 2000 ($61 million) included involuntary separation costs for approximately 1,500 employees worldwide, including positions in administration, R&D, and manufacturing. Facility closures and other exit costs in 2000 included contract termination costs ($5 million), equipment dismantling and disposal costs ($2 million), and other shutdown costs ($2 million). Facility closures and other exit costs in 2001 included contract termination costs ($28 million), property, plant and equipment dismantling and disposal costs ($18 million), and other shutdown costs ($3 million). The inventory write offs in 2000 related to laureate oil, seed and other inventories. The inventory write offs in 2001 related to discontinued seed hybrids ($31 million), unused raw materials at closed agricultural chemical manufacturing facilities ($6 million), and other inventories, including certain discontinued agricultural chemical products ($8 million). Inventory write offs for both years, as well as $37 million in property, plant and equipment impairments in 2001, were recorded in cost of goods sold. The remaining $20 million in property, plant and equipment impairments in 2001 was recorded in restructuring charges, and was related to the consolidation of agricultural chemical distribution sites and various corporate assets. The intangible asset impairment in 2000 included a $79 million goodwill impairment associated with the decision to terminate certain nutrition programs. The cost to carry out certain actions related to the 2000 restructuring plan has been lower than originally anticipated. Accordingly, reserve balances have been reduced by reversals of $3 million in the transition period and $8 million each of the 12 month periods ended Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001. These actions under the 2000 restructuring plan have yielded annual cash savings of more than $100 million. The outstanding restructuring reserve balance related to this plan is $8 million. We expect the remaining activities associated with this plan to be completed during fiscal year 2004. The remaining restructuring actions will be funded from operations. These actions are not expected to affect the companys liquidity significantly. Also included in the 2000 plan were special items. In 2001, a total charge of $6 million was recorded in other expense (net) to reflect the impairment of equity investments caused by adverse business developments of the investees. In 2000, there were other special items of $10 million: $3 million for costs associated with a failed joint venture, and $7 million for the recognition of an impairment of a marketable equity security that was classified as available for sale. October 2003 Announcement: In October 2003, we announced plans to continue to reduce the costs associated with our agricultural chemistry business as that segment matures globally in a postpatent environment. In addition, we will further concentrate our R&D efforts on certain projects. More specifically, these plans include: (1) reducing costs, particularly those associated with our Roundup herbicide business, (2) exiting our European breeding and seed business for wheat and barley; and (3) discontinuing our plant made pharmaceuticals program. These plans are expected to produce aftertax savings of approximately $80 million to $95 million in fiscal year 2005, and approximately $90 million to $105 million in fiscal year 2006, with continuing savings going forward. These actions will require charges of up to $155 million aftertax in fiscal year 2004. We estimate that this restructuring will require approximately $90 million of cash. Our decisions about the European wheat and barley business will also require a reevaluation for potential impairment of goodwill related to our global wheat business. Goodwill for our wheat businesses was recorded at approximately $80 million pretax as of Aug. 31, 2003; we currently anticipate $69 million of this goodwill will be written off in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004, resulting in a $0.26 per share impairment charge to net income. We expect that these actions will lower our SG&A costs as a percent of sales. 29 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Working Capital and Financial Condition Transition period analysis: As of Aug. 31, 2003 2002 Cash and cash equivalents $ 281 $ 137 Short term investments 230 1 Trade receivables, net 2,296 2,451 Inventories 1,230 1,284 Other current assets(1) 925 683 Total Current Assets 4,962 4,556 Short term debt 269 771 Accounts payable 290 291 Accrued liabilities(2) 1,385 648 Total Current Liabilities $1,944 $ 1,710 Working Capital(3) $3,018 $ 2,846 Current Ratio(3) 2.55:1 2.66:1 (1) Includes miscellaneous receivables, deferred tax assets and other current assets. (2) Includes Solutia PCB litigation settlement liability, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued marketing programs, deferred revenues, and miscellaneous short term accruals. (3) Working capital is total current assets less total current liabilities; current ratio represents total current assets divided by total current liabilities. Our balance sheet as of Aug. 31, 2003, reflects working capital of $3 billion. The August 2003 working capital grew from working capital levels as of December 2002 year end, consistent with the seasonality of our business. While trade accounts receivable balances are typically higher at this point in the U.S. growing season, certain liabilities are lower. For example, balances relating to deferred revenue and grower liabilities as of Aug. 31, 2003, were lower than balances as of Dec. 31, 2002. For the August 2003 to August 2002 comparison, working capital levels grew because of the following factors: Our cash position reflects the strength of our balance sheet. As of Aug. 31, 2003, we had more than $280 million of cash on hand. We have also had more than $200 million invested in short term debt securities since last December. We used a mix of cash and short term borrowings to fund the Solutia PCB litigation settlement payments made in September 2003. Short term debt levels declined from year ago levels. Our strong cash position has allowed us to reduce our reliance on short term financing. The decline in short term debt also reflects the change in our debt mix to longer term borrowings. These working capital increases were partially offset by these factors: The effect of the Solutia PCB settlement decreased our August 2003 working capital levels, as increased accrued liabilities were largely offset by a receivable due from commercial insurance and deferred tax assets. Improved operational performance drove accrued liabilities higher because of accruals for customer incentive programs, employee incentives, and income taxes. Our strong working capital management led to lower trade receivables despite higher sales levels and lower inventories, which also decreased net working capital levels. Inventories of finished goods, goods in process, and raw materials are maintained to meet customer requirements and our scheduled production. Consistent with the nature of the seed industry, we generally produce in one growing season the seed inventories we expect to sell in the following season. In general, we do not manufacture our products against a backlog of firm orders; production is geared primarily to projections of demand. Calendar year analysis: As of Dec. 31, 2002 2001 Working Capital $ 2,614 $ 2,420 Current Ratio 2.44:1 2.02:1 Our balance sheet as of Dec. 31, 2002, reflected working capital of $2.6 billion, a $200 million increase from the prior year end. Lower receivables and inventories were more than offset by higher cash and short term investments. Our cash and cash equivalents increased, largely because customer prepayments were higher in the fourth quarter of 2002 than in the fourth quarter of 2001. Approximately $250 million was invested as short term debt securities as of Dec. 31, 2002. These amounts were used to fund various anticipated cash needs in 2003. Accounts payable declined, reflecting lower spending as we continue to manage costs. The factors above, as well as our customers use of a new customer financing program (discussed in more detail in this section) for certain U.S. distributors, resulted in our having no commercial paper borrowings outstanding at the end of 2002. The cash and short term investments increases, coupled with lower payables, drove working capital higher. However, these working capital increases were partly offset by the effect of lower inventories and, to a greater extent, lower net trade receivables at year end 2002 than at year end 2001. Effective management of inventories and lower production rates led to lower finished goods and raw materials inventory levels. Goods in process inventories increased slightly, resulting from a strategic increase in our safety stock levels. Net trade accounts receivable were $1.8 billion on Dec. 31, 2002, down considerably from Dec. 31, 2001, net trade receivables of $2.3 billion. Net accounts receivable in Argentina and Brazil declined to $528 million, from more than $1 billion in net accounts receivable in 2001. The decline in worldwide net trade receivables was driven by many factors, including lower sales, the $154 million pretax Argentine bad debt reserve 30 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K established in the second quarter of 2002, and a relatively high proportion of sales on cash terms in Argentina. In addition, aggressive collection efforts, particularly in Latin America, and higher customer prepayments contributed to the receivables decline. Customer Financing Program: Monsanto refers certain of its interested U.S. distributors to a third party specialty lender administered by Bank One, N.A., which can fund their purchases of Monsanto products at attractive interest rates. In connection with this financing option, we collected approximately $120 million during the transition period, and approximately $90 million during the comparable period last year. This $500 million revolving credit and liquidity facility allows certain U.S. customers to finance product purchases, and allows us to reduce our reliance on commercial paper borrowings. The company originates these loans on behalf of the third party specialty lender using Monsantos credit guidelines approved by the lender, a special purpose entity. The loans are sold to multiseller commercial paper conduits through a nonconsolidated qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE). We have no ownership interest in the lender, the QSPE, or the loans. We service the loans and provide a first loss guarantee of up to $100 million. We have not issued, nor are we obligated to issue, any debt or equity securities in connection with this arrangement. As of Aug. 31, 2003, the customer loans held by the QSPE and the QSPEs liability to the conduits was approximately $200 million. The lender or the conduits may restrict or discontinue the facility at any time. If the facility were to terminate, existing sold loans would be collected by the QSPE over their remaining terms (generally 12 months or less) and we would revert to our past practice of providing customers with direct credit purchase terms. Servicing fee revenues were not significant. As of Aug. 31, 2003, Monsantos recorded guarantee liability was less than $1 million, based on our historical collection experience with these customers and our current assessment of credit exposure. Adverse changes in the actual loss rate would increase the liability. In January 2003, FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, was issued, but because QSPEs are excluded from the scope of FIN 46, we do not expect this interpretation to affect the way we account for this arrangement. Cash Flow Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided (required) by operations $ (214 ) $ (233 ) $ 1,108 $ 616 $ 671 Net cash required by investing activities (124 ) (112 ) (469 ) (433 ) (935 ) Free Cash Flow (338 ) (345 ) 639 183 (264 ) Net cash provided (required) by financing activities 191 175 (518 ) (7 ) 369 Transition Period Analysis: Free cash flow, which represents the total of net cash provided or required by operations and provided or required by investing activities, was a negative $338 million for the transition period. Our negative free cash flow for the first eight months of 2003 and 2002 is consistent with our historical experience, as we use cash to fund the seasonal fluctuations in our business. Even considering the $150 million cash payment made as partial payment of our share of Solutias PCB litigation and an increase of $111 million of voluntary pension contributions in 2003, our operations required slightly less cash during the transition period than in the comparable period last year. We continue to carefully manage our investments in trade receivables and inventories, and we have benefited from strong collections. Our improved financial performance also drove accrued liabilities higher at the end of August than at the same time last year. The $252 million aftertax charge related to our participation in the settlement of Solutias PCB litigation is included in the net income (loss) component of the cash flow statement. The $245 million item that did not require cash reflects the $400 million liability associated with the settlement, net of the related insurance receivable. Net cash required by investing activities increased slightly. Proceeds from the sale of herbicide assets to Nissan in 2002 were offset by lower capital expenditures and investments in short term debt securities in 2003. Investments of $250 million matured throughout April and May of 2003, and following strong collections in the second calendar quarter, we invested $230 million in short term debt securities. Because of the strong cash generating capabilities demonstrated by Monsanto, in April 2003 our board of directors authorized an increase in the quarterly dividend. In addition, a share repurchase program was approved in July 2003. This repurchase program allows for the purchase of up to $500 million of our common stock over a three year period. Although no shares were repurchased as of Aug. 31, 2003, we have purchased 2.2 million shares for approximately $55 million through Nov. 14, 2003. 31 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Calendar Year Analysis: Free cash flow totaled $639 million in 2002. This was a more than threefold increase from 2001 free cash flow of $183 million. Though net income was lower in 2002 than in 2001, our operations generated almost twice as much cash in 2002. This improvement was primarily a result of careful management of our investments in trade receivables and inventories. Capital expenditures declined 41 percent from 2001 to 2002, as we completed a number of significant capital projects during 2001. Cash required by investing activities increased slightly, to $469 million, reflecting the $250 million investment of excess cash, partially offset by the lower capital expenditures and by proceeds from asset sales. In 2002, we received $72 million of proceeds from the disposal of property and investments. This amount included the sale of herbicide assets to Nissan. We also received approximately $50 million from the long term supply agreement with Nissan, which was included in cash flow from operations. Capital Resources and Liquidity Aug. 31, Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 Short term debt $ 269 $ 771 $ 393 $ 817 (1) Long term debt 1,258 1,148 851 893 Debt to capital ratio 23% 27% 19% 19% (1) Includes related party borrowings. A major source of our liquidity is operating cash flows, which are derived from net income. This cash generating capability provides us with the financial flexibility we need to meet operating, investing and financing needs. To the extent that cash provided by operations was not sufficient to fund our cash needs, generally during the first half of the calendar year, short term commercial paper borrowings were used to finance these requirements. Because of the seasonality of our business, our August 2003 debt to capital ratio was higher than it was in December 2002, but declined from year ago August levels. Our total debt outstanding at Aug. 31, 2003, declined from Aug. 31, 2002, reflecting the strength of our balance sheet. Although our contribution to Solutias 2003 PCB litigation settlement, voluntary pension contributions (discussed in more detail later in this section), and share repurchases are expected to materially affect our liquidity in the near term, our strong balance sheet and operations will allow us to meet these obligations without affecting our ability to operate and to meet our business objectives and capital requirements. Growth in the Seeds and Genomics segment will lessen the effect on liquidity caused by declining prices of Roundup. Even in the postpatent environment, Roundup continues to be a strong cash contributor. In May 2003, Monsanto issued $250 million of 4% Senior Notes (the 4% Notes) under a $2 billion shelf registration filed in May 2002. As of Aug. 31, 2003, we had $950 million available for future debt issuances under this shelf registration. We also have in place committed external borrowing facilities amounting to $1 billion that were unused as of Aug. 31, 2003. These credit facilities give us the financial flexibility to satisfy short and medium term funding requirements. One facility is a $500 million commitment that expires in 2005; the other $500 million, 364 day facility was renewed in July 2003 and was reduced in amount from $800 million. The amount of the 364 day facility was reduced because we expect to have less reliance on commercial paper compared with our needs in 2003. We are continuing to make voluntary cash contributions to our U.S. qualified pension plan. In addition to contributing amounts as required by pension plan regulation, we may also make discretionary contributions if merited. In light of the decline in interest rates and the adverse performance of the financial markets in recent years, we expected that contributions would not be required until after fiscal year 2004. Although contributions were not required, Monsanto contributed $111 million to the U.S. qualified plan during the transition period. We also anticipate using a portion of our cash flow in fiscal year 2004 to continue to voluntarily contribute to the pension plan in order to maintain future contribution flexibility allowed by regulations. We currently expect that our contributions during fiscal year 2004 will be in the range of $150 million. While the level of future contributions that would be required is unpredictable and depends heavily on plan asset experience and interest rates, we expect to continue to contribute to the plan on a regular basis in the near term. 32 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Contractual Obligations We have certain obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts; current estimates of our future payments under these obligations are shown in the table below. Payments Due in Fiscal Year Ending Aug. 31, 2009 and Total 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 beyond Long term debt $ 1,258 $ $ 201 $ 18 $ 1 $ 243 $ 795 Operating lease obligations 89 32 20 12 8 4 13 Purchase obligations: Uncompleted additions to property 10 10 Commitments to purchase inventories 393 258 35 33 25 18 24 Commitment to purchase breeding research 410 45 45 52 45 45 178 R&D alliances and joint venture obligations 272 63 62 58 52 37 Other purchase obligations 285 51 51 51 51 21 60 Other Liabilities reflected on the balance sheet: Payments on other financing 18 5 5 5 3 Total contractual obligations $ 2,735 $ 464 $ 419 $ 229 $ 185 $ 368 $ 1,070 Seasonality Our businesses are seasonal. Historically, we recorded our highest levels of sales and income in the first half of the calendar year. Our recent change in fiscal year end from December 31 to August 31 will synchronize our quarterly and annual results with the natural flow of the agricultural cycle in our major markets. As a result, investors will gain a more complete picture of the North American and Latin American growing seasons in the same fiscal year. Because of our recent business model changes in Latin America, sales from the predominant planting season in that region will be recognized in the first half of our fiscal year. However, overall, the majority of our sales and income will now be generated in the second half of the fiscal year, consistent with the purchasing and growing patterns in North America, our largest market. Sales and income may shift somewhat between quarters depending on growing conditions. As is the practice in our industry, we regularly extend credit to enable our customers to acquire crop protection products and seeds at the beginning of the growing season. Because of the seasonality of our business and the need to extend credit to customers, we use short term borrowings to finance working capital requirements. Our need for such financing will generally be the highest in the second half of the fiscal year and lowest in the first half of the fiscal year. However, we expect to have less reliance on commercial paper borrowings than we have in the past, which will reduce our peak in working capital investment. Our customer financing program is also expected to continue to reduce our reliance on commercial paper borrowings. OUTLOOK Focused Strategy Monsanto has established leadership in agricultural markets by applying advanced technology to develop high value products ahead of competitors, and by reinforcing strong brands and customer relationships. We continually improve our products to maintain market leadership and support near term performance. Our capabilities in biotechnology research are generating a rich product pipeline that is expected to drive long term growth. We believe that our focused approach to our business and the value we bring to our customers will allow us to maintain an industry leadership position in a highly competitive and difficult agricultural and economic environment. We have announced strategic actions that will allow us to focus on continued growth in our seeds and traits businesses, while ensuring that Roundup and our other herbicides continue to make strong contributions to cash flow and income. We are accelerating Monsantos evolution to a company led by its strengths in seeds and biotechnology traits as means of delivering solutions to our customers. As we concentrate our resources on this growth sector of the agricultural industry, we are taking steps to reduce SG&A costs particularly those associated with our agricultural chemistry business as that sector matures globally. Monsanto remains the leading manufacturer of the best selling herbicide and maintains a very strong manufacturing cost position. As part of this strategic initiative, we will focus on projects that we believe to have the best commercial potential. Our research and marketing will focus on three crops grown on significant acreage: corn, cotton and soybeans. We have announced plans to exit the European breeding and seed business for wheat and barley, but we will continue our work on Roundup Ready wheat, which is in the regulatory approval phase. We will also focus on our top agricultural markets, where we can bring together a broad complement of our products and technologies, while pursuing ways to best participate in other markets. We have accordingly adopted different business models for different markets. This approach has led to the outright sale of our chemical business in Japan and a partnership with Nufarm to manufacture and market Roundup in Australia and New Zealand. These actions allow us to reduce our exposure to risk from changes in the marketplace. 33 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Our financial strategy will continue to emphasize both earnings and cash, and we believe that Monsanto is positioned to sustain earnings growth and cash flow. We remain committed to returning cash to shareowners. We have begun to implement a new share repurchase program, under which we are authorized to purchase up to $500 million of our stock during the next three years. Our board of directors also authorized an increase to our dividend rate in 2003. During the transition period, we applied our strong cash position to participate in a settlement of Solutias PCB litigation and to make voluntary contributions to our pension plan. We have taken decisive steps to address key risks in our business position. These include the measures noted above, to reduce costs in our agricultural chemistry business and to accelerate the evolution to an emphasis on seeds and traits. We also took steps in 2002 to reduce risk and stabilize our business position in Latin America. We remain focused on cost and cash management both to maintain the progress we have made in managing our investment in working capital in particular, receivables and inventories and to realize the full earnings potential of our businesses. We will also continue to seek additional external financing opportunities for our customers. We increased our allowance for doubtful trade receivables in 2002 because of the economic turmoil and market conditions in Argentina throughout 2002. Although we cannot determine how government actions and economic conditions in Argentina will affect the value of the outstanding receivables, we continue to pursue customer collections aggressively. Managements current assessment of the situation is that the current allowance balance relating to Argentine receivables is adequate. The Brazilian real has also fluctuated considerably in past years, although recent improvements in the economic and political situation have reduced currency volatility. We proactively monitor the risk to anticipated Brazilian real denominated cash flows and manage that exposure as part of our overall foreign currency risk management process. Seeds and Genomics We invest more than 80 percent of our R&D in the areas of seeds, genomics and biotechnology. These are the fastest growing segments of the agriculture industry. By shifting our focus to create value for farmers in seeds and traits, we have set Monsanto on a path of sustainable growth, as we expect increasing gross profit from seeds and traits to more than offset a declining contribution from agricultural chemicals. This trend was evidenced in our 2003 financial results, as the gross profit contribution of our seeds and traits business surpassed that of our glyphosate business. Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides can be applied over the top of glyphosate tolerant Roundup Ready crops, controlling weeds without injury to the crop. This integration of agricultural chemicals and enhanced seeds offers growers a cost effective solution for weed control. To date, we have introduced Roundup Ready traits in soybeans, corn, canola and cotton. In addition, our insect protection seed traits, such as YieldGard for corn and Bollgard and Bollgard II for cotton, serve as alternatives to certain chemical pesticides. Key near term growth opportunities in seeds and traits include Continued growth in Monsantos branded and licensed seed market shares, through successful breeding of high performance germplasm and continuous improvement in the quality of our seeds; Continued growth in licensing of seed germplasm and biotechnology traits to other seed companies through our Holdens/ Corn States business and the newly established Cotton States business; and, Expansion of existing traits, especially in corn, and stacking of additional traits in current biotechnology products. At the same time, we expect to continue to reduce seed production costs through higher yields on seed production acres and careful management of our seed product portfolio. Monsanto has built a leading global position in seeds, and the successful integration of seed businesses acquired in the 1990s has allowed us to optimize our seed portfolio. We continue to make improvements in our base seed business, as advanced breeding techniques combined with production practices and plant capital investments have significantly improved germplasm quality, yields and cost. The performance of Monsanto germplasm is reflected in market share gains for both our branded and licensed seed businesses. We also use our genetic material to develop new varieties for other seed companies brands. Outstanding seed quality and leading germplasm provide a vehicle for introducing biotechnology seed traits, such as herbicide tolerance and insect protection. Biotechnology traits offer growers several benefits: Lower costs, greater convenience and flexibility, higher yields, and the ability to adopt environmentally responsible practices such as conservation tillage and reduced pesticide use. Our past successes provide a significant competitive advantage in delivering stacked trait products and improved, second generation traits. We can achieve continued growth through stacking and increased penetration of traits in approved markets. Trait stacking is a key growth driver in our seeds and traits business, because it allows Monsanto to earn a greater share of the farmers expenditures on each acre. Stacked trait cotton overtook single trait cotton products in Monsantos product mix in 2003. We are seeing the same trend in our corn seed business, where higher value, stacked trait products represent a growing share of total seed sales. We recently received U.S. approval for YieldGard Plus insect protected corn, designed to control both the corn borer and corn rootworm pests. Consistent with our Monsanto Pledge, we will launch YieldGard Plus when we have completed the appropriate regulatory process in both the 34 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K United States and Japan. YieldGard Plus technology is currently under review by the Japanese regulatory authorities. We are currently developing the first triple stack product, YieldGard Plus corn with Roundup Ready. Another source of growth in the near term is the commercialization of second generation traits, such as Bollgard II cotton. In addition to delivering new stacked trait products and second generation traits in the near term, we are working toward developing products to generate long term growth. Our strategic head start in first and second generation input traits gives us a leadership position in developing output traits that provide consumer benefits and create value for the food industry. We are working to achieve greater acceptance and to secure additional approvals for our existing biotechnology products globally, and toward the development and timely commercialization of additional products in our pipeline. We are prioritizing our efforts to gain approvals for biotechnology crops, and while we continue to gain new approvals in global markets, we are not adopting strategies that depend on government action. We are continuing our efforts to obtain approval for the planting of Roundup Ready soybeans in Brazil, and for the importation of corn that contains the Roundup Ready trait into Europe. We have committed to selling seed that will result in commercial commodity grain products only after we have earned regulatory approval for consumption by both humans and animals. Crop import restrictions in some key markets, most notably the European Union (EU), reduce potential expansion of current and future biotechnology crops in the United States and other markets where they are approved. The development of effective systems to enable farmers growing crops in the United States to sell into elevator systems that do not export to the EU, however, is mitigating the effect of these restrictions. We are committed to addressing concerns raised by consumers in some regions and by public interest groups and questions from government regulators regarding agricultural and food products developed through biotechnology. We also continue to address concerns about the adventitious or unintended trace presence of biotechnology materials in seed, grain or feed and food products. We are responding to the issue of adventitious presence in several ways. These include seeking sound, science based rules and regulations that clarify and allow for trace amounts, and providing industry leadership to establish the highest standards of purity reasonably achievable and to establish global standards for quality. We are also working with the seed industry to develop strategies on production interventions that may reduce the likelihood of adventitious presence. Agricultural Productivity Reduced revenues and earnings from Roundup herbicide reflect both the overall decline in the agricultural chemicals market and the expiration of U.S. patent protection for the active ingredient in Roundup in 2000. By aligning our infrastructure and costs with our expectations for the glyphosate herbicide market, however, we believe the Roundup franchise can continue to be a significant and sustainable source of cash and income generation for Monsanto, even in the face of increased competition. As expected, the market share and price of Roundup in the United States have declined since the patent expired in 2000. We expect these trends to continue until we reach steady state postpatent levels. In postpatent markets around the world, Roundup has maintained a leading market position and a price premium compared with generics. We will continue to support the market leadership of Roundup with product innovations, superior customer service and logistics, low cost manufacturing, and further expansion of Roundup Ready crops and conservation tillage. We have several patents on our glyphosate formulations and manufacturing processes in the United States and in other countries. We continue to differentiate Roundup with innovations using proprietary technology. We also provide more concentrated formulations that provide greater convenience for farmers while reducing production and logistics costs. We offer a variety of products to meet farmers needs. The U.S. launch of premium Roundup WeatherMAX was followed by introduction of Roundup Original MAX, which offers key brand advantages at a lower price, for the 2004 growing season. Monsanto will support Roundup through expansion of Roundup Ready crops and promotion of conservation tillage. Conservation tillage helps farmers reduce soil erosion by replacing plowing with the judicious use of herbicides to control weeds. Further penetration of Roundup Ready crops also enhances the market position of Roundup as a brand name product that farmers trust to avoid the risk of crop injury in over the top use on these crops. Monsanto maintains strong distribution relationships and a unique bulk tank system to support retailers. Monsanto remains the primary global producer of glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup, with agreements to supply glyphosate to many of our competitors. Our high volume allows us to maintain low unit costs. We continue to reduce production costs, and we are also achieving reductions in working capital through careful management of inventories. In recent years, distribution channel inventories had increased significantly in the United States. However, Roundup distribution inventory levels at the end of calendar year 2002 were roughly flat with levels at 2001 calendar year end, and declined during the transition period. We expect these levels to be flat to down in the near term. Like most chemical herbicides, Monsantos selective herbicides face declining markets and increasing competitive pressures, but they continue to complement our ability to offer fully integrated solutions, particularly in corn. While rapid penetration of Roundup Ready corn in the United States has also had a negative effect on sales of Monsanto selective corn herbicides, increased revenues from the 35 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Roundup Ready trait and the Roundup used on these acres are significantly higher than the lost selective herbicide sales. Our lawn and garden herbicide business remains a strong cash generator and supports Monsantos brand equity in the marketplace. Another key product in our Agricultural Productivity segment is Posilac bovine somatotropin, which promotes dairy cow productivity. Posilac provides a steady contribution to gross profit. New product formulations and more efficient manufacturing capacity support the growth of Posilac. The new bulk powder facility for Posilac, approved in 2003 for production by the U.S. FDA, will allow us to supply anticipated growth in the market. Other Information As discussed in Note 22 Commitments and Contingencies, Monsanto is involved in a number of lawsuits and claims relating to a variety of issues. Many of these lawsuits relate to intellectual property disputes. We expect that such disputes will continue to occur as the agricultural biotechnology industry evolves. As further discussed in Note 22, under our Separation Agreement with Pharmacia, we were required to indemnify Pharmacia for liabilities that Solutia assumed from Pharmacia in connection with the spinoff of Solutia on Sept. 1, 1997, to the extent that Solutia fails to pay, perform or discharge those liabilities. Note 22 includes further information regarding Solutia, and the possibility of a material adverse effect on our financial position, profitability and or liquidity. For additional information on the outlook for Monsanto, see Cautionary Statements: Risk Factors Regarding Forward Looking Information. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our financial statements, we must select and apply various accounting policies. Our most significant policies are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements. In order to apply our accounting policies, we often need to make estimates based on judgments about future events. In making such estimates, we rely on historical experience, market and other conditions, and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. However, the estimation process is by its nature uncertain given that estimates depend on events over which we may not have control. If market and other conditions change from those that we anticipate, our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity may be affected materially. In addition, if our assumptions change, we may need to revise our estimates, or to take other corrective actions, either of which may also have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Members of our senior management have discussed the development and selection of our critical accounting estimates, and our disclosure regarding them, with the audit and finance committee of our board of directors, and do so on a regular basis. We believe that the following estimates have a higher degree of inherent uncertainty and require our most significant judgments. In addition, had we used estimates different from any of these, our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity for the current period could have been materially different from those presented. Allowance for Doubtful Trade Receivables: We maintain an allowance for doubtful trade receivables. This allowance represents our estimate of accounts receivable that, subsequent to the time of sale, we have estimated to be of doubtful collectibility because our customers may not be able to pay. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider historical bad debt experience, customer creditworthiness, market conditions, and economic conditions. We perform ongoing evaluations of our allowance for doubtful accounts, and we increase the allowance as required. Increases in this allowance will reduce the recorded amount of our net trade receivables and shareowners equity, and increase our bad debt expense. For example, in June 2002 we increased our allowance for estimated uncollectible trade receivables in Argentina by $154 million. This increase in the allowance was required because of the economic turmoil and market conditions there. Allowances for Returns and Inventory Obsolescence: Where the right of return exists in our seed business, sales revenues are reduced at the time of sale to reflect expected returns. In order to estimate the expected returns, management analyzes historical returns, economic trends, market conditions, and changes in customer demand. In addition, we establish allowances for obsolescence of inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value, based on assumptions about future demand and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the adequacy of our return allowances and inventory obsolescence reserves. If economic and market conditions are different from those we anticipated, actual returns and inventory obsolescence could be materially different from the amounts provided for in our consolidated financial statements. If seed returns are higher than anticipated, our net sales, net trade receivables and shareowners equity for future periods will be reduced. If inventory obsolescence is higher than expected, our cost of goods sold will be increased, and our inventory valuations and shareowners equity reduced. Higher than anticipated seed returns have recently affected our results of operations and financial condition. In calendar year 2002, results were affected by higher than anticipated seed returns (primarily corn seed) in Argentina because of the economic crisis that originated at the end of 2001 and the flooding in that same year. In 2001, we experienced higher than anticipated returns of high priced corn seed, primarily in Brazil because of an extremely unusual change in market conditions there. 36 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Deferred Income Tax Assets: Management regularly assesses the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent management believes that it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established. When a valuation allowance is established or increased, an income tax charge is included in the consolidated financial statements and net deferred tax assets are adjusted accordingly. As of Aug. 31, 2003, Monsanto has recorded a valuation allowance totaling $90 million against Brazilian loss carryforwards, an increase of $14 million from Dec. 31, 2002. This increase is a result of foreign currency fluctuations. Changes in tax laws, statutory tax rates, and estimates of the companys future taxable income levels could result in actual realization of the deferred tax assets being materially different from the amounts provided for in the consolidated financial statements. If the actual recovery amount of the deferred tax asset is less than anticipated, we would be required to write off the remaining deferred tax asset and increase the tax provision, resulting in a reduction of net income and shareowners equity. Goodwill: A majority of our goodwill relates to our seed company acquisitions. We are required to assess whether any of our goodwill is impaired. In order to do this, we apply judgment in determining our reporting units, which represent distinct parts of our business. The definition of our reporting units affects the results of our goodwill impairment analysis. Our annual goodwill impairment assessment involves estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and comparing it with its carrying amount. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, additional steps are required to calculate a potential impairment loss. Calculating the fair value of the reporting units requires significant estimates and long term assumptions. Any changes in key assumptions about the business and its prospects, or any changes in market conditions, interest rates or other externalities, could result in an impairment charge. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units by applying discounted cash flow methodologies. In connection with the adoption of SFAS 142 in 2002, we recorded a $2 billion pretax transitional impairment charge relating to our corn and wheat reporting units. This charge reduced the carrying amount of our goodwill, and it resulted in a cumulative effect of accounting change, which reduced net income and shareowners equity. Future changes in the fair value of our reporting units could affect our goodwill and operating expenses and reduce shareowners equity. As discussed in Restructuring and Other Special Items, our October 2003 decision to exit our European wheat and barley business required us to reevaluate our global wheat business for potential goodwill impairment. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits: The actuarial valuation of our pension and other postretirement benefit costs, assets and obligations affects our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. These valuations require the use of assumptions and long range estimates. These assumptions include, among others: assumptions regarding interest and discount rates, assumed long term rates of return on pension plan assets, and projected rates of salary increases. We regularly evaluate these assumptions and estimates as new information becomes available. Changes in assumptions (caused by conditions in the debt and equity markets, changes in asset mix, and plan experience, for example) could have a material effect on our pension obligations and expenses, and can affect our net income, intangible assets, liabilities, and shareowners equity. In addition, changes in assumptions such as rates of return, fixed income rates used to value liabilities or declines in the fair value of plan assets, may result in voluntary decisions or mandatory requirements to make additional contributions to our qualified pension plan. Because of the design of our postretirement health care plans, our liabilities associated with these plans are not highly sensitive to assumptions regarding health care cost trends. Because of the decline in the equity markets in recent years, the fair value of assets in the Monsanto U.S. qualified pension plan decreased in 2002. As a result, along with the effect of declining interest rates, we recorded additional minimum pension liability adjustments totaling $330 million during calendar year 2002. Although the equity markets have improved during the transition period, interest rates have continued to decline. As a result, we recorded a $106 million increase to the additional minimum pension liability in our financial statements for the eight month period ended Aug. 31, 2003. This adjustment was necessary to keep the recorded pension liability at least equal to the unfunded accumulated benefit obligation for the plan. These noncash adjustments decreased shareowners equity, but did not affect our results of operations. We anticipate that our pension expenses will continue to increase in 2004, which will reduce our net income. We recently reduced the discount rate for our pension plan from 6.75 percent to 6.25 percent to reflect market interest conditions and payout experience. In determining the discount rate, we use the yield on high quality fixed income investments (including among other things, Moodys Aa corporate bond yields) that match the average duration of the pension obligations. To the extent the discount rate increases or decreases, our pension obligation is decreased or increased accordingly. Holding all other assumptions constant, we estimate that this one half percent decrease in the expected discount rate will decrease our fiscal year 2004 pretax income by approximately $4 million. We also recently reduced our salary rate assumption by one half percent. This lower salary assumption will partially offset the pretax earnings effect of the lower assumed discount rate. Expected rate of return on pension assets is also an important element of plan expense. In 2002, we reduced the rate of return on pension plan assets to 8.75 percent. To determine the rate of return, we consider the historical 37 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K experience and expected future performance of the plan assets, as well as the current and expected allocation of the plan assets. The U.S. qualified pension plans asset allocation as of Aug. 31, 2003, was approximately 60 percent equity investments, 35 percent fixed income investments and 5 percent other investments, in line with policy ranges. We periodically evaluate the allocation of plan assets among the different investment classes to ensure that they are within policy guidelines and ranges. While we do not currently expect to further reduce the assumed rate of return in the near term, holding all other assumptions constant, we estimate that a half percent decrease in the expected return on plan assets would lower Monsantos fiscal year 2004 pretax income by approximately $5 million. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Monsanto adopted SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, on Jan. 1, 2003. SFAS 143 addresses financial accounting for and reporting of costs and obligations associated with legal obligations related to the retirement of tangible long lived assets. Upon adoption of this standard, in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, we recorded an aftertax cumulative effect of accounting change of $12 million, or $0.05 per share. This noncash charge was recorded as of Jan. 1, 2003. In addition, as required by SFAS 143, as of Jan. 1, 2003, net property, plant and equipment was increased by approximately $10 million, and asset retirement obligations (a component of noncurrent liabilities) of approximately $30 million were recorded. Adoption of this standard did not affect Monsantos liquidity. In 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS 146 replaced Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). SFAS 146 requires companies to recognize costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date the company commits itself to an exit or disposal plan. This statement is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after Dec. 31, 2002. The adoption of SFAS 146 had no effect on our 2000 and 2002 restructuring plans, which were both initiated prior to Dec. 31, 2002. We will follow SFAS 146 to recognize the costs associated with the strategic actions announced in October 2003. In April 2003, SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, was issued. SFAS 149 amends and clarifies accounting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities under SFAS 133. SFAS 149 is generally effective for contracts entered into or modified and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003. The adoption of SFAS 149 did not have a material effect on our financial position, profitability or liquidity. CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS: RISK FACTORS REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS In this report, and from time to time throughout the year, we share our expectations for our companys future performance. These forward looking statements represent our best estimates and expectations at the time that we make those statements. However, by their nature, these types of statements are uncertain and are not guarantees of our future performance. Many events beyond our control will determine whether our expectations will be realized. In the interests of our investors, and in accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the U.S Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, this section of our report explains some of the important reasons that actual results may be materially different from those that we anticipate. Our forward looking statements include statements about: our business plans; the potential development, regulatory approval, and public acceptance of our products; our expected financial performance and the anticipated effect of our strategic actions; domestic or international economic, political and market conditions; and other factors that could affect our future operations or financial position. Any statements we make that are not matters of current reportage or historical fact should be considered forward looking. Such statements often include words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, will, and similar expressions. Our forward looking statements are current only as of the date of this report. Circumstances change constantly, often unpredictably, and investors should not place undue reliance on these statements. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward looking statements, or the factors that may affect their realization, whether in light of new information, future events or otherwise, and investors should not rely on us to do so. Competition for Roundup Herbicides: We expect to face continued competition for our branded Roundup herbicide product line. The extent to which we can realize cash and gross profit from these products will depend on our ability to predict and respond effectively to competitor pricing, to provide marketing programs meeting the needs of our customers and of the farmers who are our end users, to maintain an efficient distribution system, to control manufacturing and marketing costs without adversely affecting sales, and to develop new formulations with features attractive to our end users. Regulation and Public Acceptance of Seed Biotechnology: Regulatory and legislative requirements affect the testing and planting of seeds containing our biotechnology traits, and the import of crops grown from those seeds. Obtaining testing, planting and import approvals can be lengthy and costly, with no guarantee of success. Planting approvals may also include significant regulatory requirements that can limit our sales. 38 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Lack of approval to import crops containing biotechnology traits into key markets affects sales of our traits, even in jurisdictions where planting has been approved. Legislation or regulation may also require the tracking of biotechnology products and the labeling of food or feed products with ingredients grown from seeds containing biotechnology traits. Such traceability and labeling requirements may cause food processors and food companies to avoid biotechnology and select non biotechnology crop sources, which can affect grower seed purchase decisions and the sale of our products. Some opponents of the technology publicly express concern about potential effects of our biotechnology traits on other plants and on the environment, and about potential effects of crops containing these traits on animals and human health. Such concerns can affect government approvals and may adversely affect sales of our traits, even after approvals are granted. In addition, violent opponents of agricultural biotechnology have attacked facilities used by agricultural biotechnology companies, and may launch future violent attacks against our field testing sites, research, production, or other facilities. Adventitious Presence of Biotechnology Traits: The detection of unintended but unavoidable trace amounts (sometimes called adventitious presence) of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional (non biotechnology) seed, or in the grain or products produced from seeds containing these traits, may negatively affect our business or results of operations. The detection of adventitious presence of traits not approved in the country where detected may result in the withdrawal of seed lots from sale, or in compliance actions such as crop destruction or product recalls. Some growers of organic and conventional crops have claimed that the adventitious presence of any biotechnology traits in their crops will cause them commercial harm. The potential for adventitious presence of biotechnology traits is a factor in general public acceptance of these traits. Concern about adventitious presence may also lead to more stringent regulation, which may include: requirements for labeling and traceability; financial protection such as surety bonds, liability or insurance; and or restrictions or moratoria on testing, planting or use of biotechnology traits. Regulation and Legislation Affecting Agricultural Products: In addition to regulation and legislation specifically affecting our seed biotechnology products, agricultural products and their manufacturers are subject to other government regulation, which affects our sales and profitability. These regulations affect the development, manufacture and distribution of our products, and non compliance could affect our sales and profitability. Farm legislation encouraging or discouraging the planting of specific crops can affect our sales. In addition, claims that increased use of glyphosate herbicides increases the potential for the development of glyphosate resistant weeds could result in restrictions on the use of glyphosate and of seeds containing our Roundup Ready traits, and thereby reduce our sales. Intellectual Property: Intellectual property rights are crucial to our business, and we endeavor to obtain and protect these rights in jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used, and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported. Intellectual property rights are particularly important with respect to our seeds and genomics segment. However, we may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Even if protection is obtained, competitors, growers, or others in the chain of commerce may illegally infringe on our rights, and such infringement may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, the practice of saving seeds from non hybrid crops (including, for example, soybeans, canola and cotton) containing our biotechnology may prevent us from realizing the full value of our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States. We must also protect our intellectual property against legal challenges by competitors. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights against infringement and legal challenges can increase our costs, and will not always succeed. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products. Because of the rapid pace of change and the complexity of the legal and factual issues involved, we could unknowingly rely on key technologies that are or become patent protected by others, which would require that we seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. Research and Development: The continued development and commercialization of pipeline products is key to our growth. The ability to develop and bring new products to market, especially agricultural biotechnology products, requires adequately funded, efficient and successful research and development programs. Inadequate availability of funds, failure to focus R&D efforts efficiently, or lack of productivity in R&D, would hurt our future growth. Competition in Plant Biotechnology: Many companies engage in plant biotechnology research. Their success could render our existing products less competitive. In addition, a companys speed in getting its new product to market can be a significant competitive advantage. We expect to see more competition, from agricultural biotechnology firms and from major agrichemical, seed and food companies, some of which have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Weather, Natural Disasters and Accidents: Our sales and profitability are subject to significant risk from weather conditions and natural disasters that affect commodity prices, seed yields, and grower decisions about purchases of our products. Natural disasters or industrial accidents could also affect our own manufacturing facilities, our major suppliers, or our major customers. 39 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Manufacturing: Because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our product development programs and manufacturing processes, we are subject to risks of accidental environmental contamination, personal injury claims and fines. We are also subject to regulation of air emissions, waste water discharges and solid waste. Compliance may be costly, and failure to comply may result in penalties and remediation obligations. In addition, lapses in quality control could affect our sales and result in claims for defective products. Short Term Financing: We regularly extend credit to our customers in certain areas of the world so that they can buy agricultural products at the beginning of their growing seasons. Because of these credit practices and the seasonality of our sales, we may need to issue short term debt at certain times of the year to fund our cash flow requirements. The amount of short term debt will be greater to the extent that we are unable to collect customer receivables when due, to repatriate funds from ex U.S. operations, and to manage our costs and expenses. Any downgrade in our credit rating, or other limitation on our access to short term financing or refinancing, would increase our interest cost and adversely affect our profitability. Litigation and Contingencies: We are involved in major lawsuits concerning contracts, intellectual property, biotechnology, antitrust allegations, and other matters. Adverse outcomes could subject us to substantial damages or limit our ability to sell our products. In addition, in connection with the separation of our businesses from those of Pharmacia on Sept. 1, 2000, we were required to indemnify Pharmacia for liabilities that Solutia had assumed from Pharmacia in connection with the spinoff of Solutia on Sept. 1, 1997, to the extent that Solutia fails to pay, perform or discharge those liabilities. Additional information about our risks related to Solutia may be found in other sections of this report. Product Distribution: To market our products successfully, we must estimate growers future needs, and match our production and the level of product at our distributors to those needs. However, growers decisions are affected by market and economic conditions that are not known in advance. Failure to provide distributors with enough inventory of our products will reduce our current sales. However, high product inventory levels at our distributors may reduce sales in future periods, as those distributor inventories are worked down. Large distributor inventories also diminish our ability to react to changes in the market, and increase the risk of obsolescence and seed returns. In addition, inadequate distributor liquidity could affect distributors ability to pay for our products. Cost Management: We have recently announced strategic initiatives that include cost reductions in our Roundup business. Inability to implement these cost reductions while maintaining sales, or unanticipated increases in our costs, could reduce our profitability. Commodity Prices: Fluctuations in commodity prices can affect our costs and our sales. We purchase our seed inventories from production growers at market prices, and retain the seed in inventory until it is sold. We use hedging strategies to mitigate the risk of changes in these prices. In addition, the prices of our seeds and traits could be affected by commodity prices. Farmers income, and therefore their ability to purchase our herbicides, seeds and traits, is also affected by commodity prices. Accounting Policies and Estimates: Changes to our accounting policies could affect future results. In addition, changes to generally accepted accounting principles could require adjustments to financial statements for prior periods and changes to our policies for future periods. In addition, if actual experience differs from the estimates, judgments and assumptions that we used in order to prepare our financial statements, adjustments will need to be made in future periods, which may affect revenues and profitability. Finally, changes in our business practices may result in changes to the way we account for transactions, and may affect comparability between periods. Operations Outside the United States: Sales outside the United States represent more than 40 percent of our revenues. In addition, we engage in manufacturing, seed production, sales, and or research and development in many parts of the world. Although we have operations in virtually every region, our ex U.S. sales are principally to external customers in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France and Mexico. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world generally have a more significant effect on our operations than developments in other places. Operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and limitations, including: fluctuations in currency values and foreign currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Acts of terror or war may impair our ability to operate in particular countries or regions, and may impede the flow of goods and services between countries. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or we may be unable to collect receivables; and imported products could become more expensive for customers to purchase in their local currency. Changes in exchange rates may affect our earnings, the book value of our assets outside the United States, and our equity. 40 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are exposed to the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in commodity and equity prices. Market risk represents the risk of a change in the value of a financial instrument, derivative or nonderivative, caused by fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and commodity and equity prices. Monsanto handles market risk in accordance with established policies by engaging in various derivative transactions. Such transactions are not entered into for trading purposes. See Notes 2 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further details regarding the accounting and disclosure of our derivative instruments and hedging activities. The sensitivity analysis discussed below presents the hypothetical change in fair value of those financial instruments held by the company as of Aug. 31, 2003, that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and commodity and equity prices. Actual changes may prove to be greater or less than those hypothesized. Changes in Interest Rates: Because the companys short and long term debt exceeds cash and investments, Monsantos interest rate risk exposure pertains primarily to the debt portfolio. To the extent that we have cash available for investment to ensure liquidity, we will invest that cash only in short term instruments. The majority of our debt as of Aug. 31, 2003, consisted of fixed rate, long term obligations. Market risk with respect to interest rates is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from an immediate hypothetical one percentage point parallel shift in the yield curve. The fair values of the companys investments and loans are based on quoted market prices or discounted future cash flows. We currently hold debt and investments that mature in less than 360 days, and variable rate medium term notes. As the carrying amounts on short term loans and investments maturing in less than 360 days and the carrying amounts of variable rate medium term notes approximate their respective fair values, a one percentage point change in the interest rates would not result in a material change in the fair value of our debt and investments portfolio. On Aug. 14, 2002, Monsanto issued $600 million of 7 3/8% Senior Notes (the 7 3/8% notes) under our shelf registration. The aggregate principal amount of the outstanding notes was later increased to $800 million. In May 2003, Monsanto issued $250 million of 4% notes, also under this shelf registration. These notes were subsequently swapped to six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus a spread of 39 basis points. As of Aug. 31, 2003, the fair value of the 7 3/8% notes was $898 million, and the fair value of the 4% notes (including the effect of the swap) was $244 million. A one percentage point change in the interest rates would change the fair value of the 7 3/8% notes by approximately $61 million, and the 4% notes by $11 million. Foreign Currency Fluctuations: In managing foreign currency risk, Monsanto focuses on reducing the volatility in consolidated cash flow and earnings caused by fluctuations in exchange rates. We use foreign currency forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options to manage the net currency exposure, in accordance with established hedging policies. Monsanto hedges recorded commercial transaction exposures, intercompany loans, net investments in foreign subsidiaries, and forecasted transactions. The companys significant hedged positions included the Argentine peso, the euro, Canadian dollar, the Brazilian real, and the South African rand. Unfavorable currency movements of 10 percent would negatively affect the fair market values of the derivatives held to hedge currency exposures by $60 million. Changes in Commodity Prices: Monsanto uses futures contracts to protect itself against commodity price increases, mainly in the Seeds and Genomics segment. The majority of these contracts hedge the committed or future purchases of, and the carrying value of payables to growers for, soybean and corn inventories. A 10 percent decrease in the prices would have a negative effect on the fair value of those futures of less than $2 million for soybeans and less than $4 million for corn. We also use natural gas swaps to manage energy input costs. A 10 percent decrease in price of gas would have a negative effect on the fair value of the swaps of $1 million. Changes in Equity Prices: The company also has investments in equity securities. All such investments are classified as long term available for sale investments. The fair market value of these investments is $51 million. These securities are listed on a stock exchange or quoted in an over the counter market. If the market price of the traded securities should decrease by 10 percent, the fair value of the equities would decrease by $5 million. See Note 10 Investments for further details. 41 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. BACKGROUND Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of agricultural products and integrated solutions for farmers. We produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB and Asgrow, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. We also make Roundup herbicide and other herbicides. Our seeds, related biotechnology trait products and herbicides can be combined to provide growers with integrated solutions that improve productivity and reduce the costs of farming. We also provide lawn and garden herbicide products for the residential market and animal agricultural products focused on improving dairy cow productivity and swine genetics. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics, and Agricultural Productivity. The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related traits businesses, and genetic technology platforms. The Agricultural Productivity segment consists of the crop protection products, animal agriculture, lawn and garden herbicide products, and environmental technologies businesses. As discussed in Item 1 Business, Monsanto comprises the operations, assets and liabilities that were previously the agricultural business of Pharmacia, which is now a subsidiary of Pfizer. The consolidated financial statements for the period prior to Sept. 1, 2000, were prepared on a carve out basis to reflect the historical operating results, assets, liabilities, and cash flows of the agricultural business operations. The costs of certain services and debt service provided by Pharmacia included in the Statement of Consolidated Operations for this period were allocated to Monsanto based on methodologies that management believes to be reasonable, but which do not necessarily reflect what the results of operations, financial position, or cash flows would have been had Monsanto actually been a separate, stand alone entity before Sept. 1, 2000. Beginning Sept. 1, 2000, the consolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the company as a separate entity responsible for procuring or providing for itself the services and financing previously provided by Pharmacia. The consolidated financial statements also include the costs of services purchased from Pharmacia and the reimbursement for services provided to Pharmacia pursuant to a transition services agreement. MD&A should be read in conjunction with Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Unless otherwise indicated, earnings (loss) per share and per share mean diluted earnings (loss) per share; earnings (loss) per pro forma share and per pro forma share mean basic and diluted earnings (loss) per pro forma share. In the tables, all dollar amounts are expressed in millions, except per share and per pro forma share amounts. CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR END In July 2003, Monsantos board of directors approved a change to Monsantos fiscal year end from December 31 to August 31. This change aligns our fiscal year more closely with the seasonal nature of our business. In view of this change, MD&A compares the consolidated financial statements as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2003 (the transition period) with the consolidated financial statements as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002. References to 2003 refer to the transition period unless otherwise specified. Note that although consolidated financial statements are not presented as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, we have included summary information in MD&A for these periods for comparability purposes because of the seasonality of our business. We are also including a discussion and analysis of our financial statements for fiscal years ended Dec. 31, 2000, 2001, and 2002. Throughout the MD&A, data for all periods except as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which appear in this report. All data as of and for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, are derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements, which are not presented herein. Summary financial information for this period can be found in Note 4 Change in Fiscal Year End. FINANCIAL MEASURES The primary operating performance measure for our two business segments is earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest, and income taxes (EBIT). We believe that EBIT is useful to investors and management to demonstrate the operational profitability of our segments by excluding interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire company on a consolidated basis. EBIT is also one of the measures used by Monsanto management in determining resource allocations within the company. We also provide information regarding free cash flow, an important liquidity measure for Monsanto. We define free cash flow as the total of net cash provided or required by operations and provided or required by investing activities. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors and management as a measure of the ability of our business to generate cash. This cash can be used for business needs and obligations, to reinvest into the company for future growth, or returned to our shareowners through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow is also one of the performance measures management uses to determine incentive compensation. 18 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K The presentation of EBIT and free cash flow information is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance and liquidity. Our EBIT and free cash flow measures may not be comparable to other companies EBIT and free cash flow measures. Furthermore, these measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of Financial Performance (transition period compared with eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002) We recognized a net loss of $23 million during the transition period, and a net loss of $1.8 billion during the comparable period last year. The following factors affected the eight month comparison: 2003: An aftertax charge of $12 million effective Jan. 1, 2003, upon adoption of a new accounting standard relating to asset retirement obligations An aftertax charge of $252 million in 2003 related to the settlement of Solutias polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) litigation 2002: A $1.8 billion aftertax transitional goodwill impairment charge, upon adoption of a new accounting standard relating to goodwill Establishment of a $100 million aftertax bad debt reserve in 2002 related to Argentine receivables Actions in 2002 to reduce risks in Latin America, due to economic and market uncertainties, that negatively affected results Charges relating to our 2002 restructuring plan A gain from sales of certain herbicide assets for use in certain ex U.S. markets On an ongoing business basis, our results in 2003 were affected by lower volumes and average net selling prices of Roundup herbicides in the United States. However, stronger sales of our seeds and traits in the United States mitigated this shortfall. During the transition period, our Seeds and Genomics segment delivered a greater gross profit contribution than that of the Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides. This milestone demonstrates the increasing contribution of that segment to our results. Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, 2003 2002 Net Sales $3,373 $ 3,110 Gross Profit 1,577 1,442 Operating Expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses 741 719 Bad debt expense 40 176 Research and development expenses 330 348 Restructuring charges net (5 ) 63 Total Operating Expenses 1,106 1,306 Income From Operations 471 136 Interest expense net 46 35 Settlement of PCB litigation 396 Other expense net 67 51 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change (38 ) 50 Income tax provision (benefit) (27 ) 13 Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change (11 ) 37 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax benefit (12 ) (1,822 ) Net Loss $ (23 ) $ (1,785 ) Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share: Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change $(0.04 ) $ 0.14 Cumulative effect of accounting change (0.05 ) (6.92 ) Net Loss $(0.09 ) $ (6.78 ) Net sales for the transition period increased 8 percent over the comparable period last year. Both of our operating segments benefited from improved performance in Latin America. In the eight month period last year, net sales were negatively affected by difficult economic conditions in that region, as well as the operational changes we made to our business to address the uncertainties there. In the Seeds and Genomics segment, U.S. seed and trait sales continued their strong growth in 2003, with seed and trait sales for all crops increasing during the eight month period. Sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment declined because of the continued shift toward lower priced Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides and lower U.S. Roundup volumes in the postpatent glyphosate market. Sales of our selective herbicides also declined. For a more detailed discussion of the factors affecting the net sales comparison, please see Seeds and Genomics Segment and Agricultural Productivity Segment. Gross profit for the transition period increased 9 percent, which was consistent with the 8 percent increase in net sales. Increases in Seeds and Genomics gross profit were partly offset by declines in Agricultural Productivity gross profit, as the continued growth of our Seeds and Genomics segment improved our margins this year. Better financial results in Latin America also improved the margin comparison this year, as the market factors in Latin America and our actions in response to those factors negatively affected our margins in 2002. Collectively, these items have improved the eight month 19 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K gross profit comparison. They have more than mitigated the effect of the shift in Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicide sales in the United States to lower priced products. During the eight month period, the gross profit of our seeds and traits business surpassed the gross profit contribution of our glyphosate business. We expect this trend to continue in fiscal year 2004 and beyond. As a percent of net sales, gross profit gained one point to 47 percent. Operating expenses decreased 15 percent for the eight month comparison. In June 2002, we increased our allowance for doubtful trade receivables by $154 million because of the economic turmoil and related market conditions in Argentina. We also recorded $63 million of net operating expenses related to the restructuring plan approved in 2002. These and other operating expenses last year were partially offset by a $25 million reduction in selling, general and administrative (SG&A) costs stemming from the sale of certain Monsanto herbicide assets in Japan to Nissan Chemical Industries (Nissan). SG&A expenses in 2003 also reflected a reduction, to a lesser extent, in costs related to agreements that are part of our ongoing business. During the transition period, our bad debt expense was significantly lower, and our operating expenses were reduced by $5 million in restructuring reversals related to our past restructuring plans. However, higher employee related costs, primarily accrued incentive compensation, drove SG&A expenses higher in 2003. Continued cost management helped offset some of this increase and also decreased R&D expenses by 5 percent. We are also continuing to see the benefits from our restructuring programs through lower R&D expenses. In August 2003, we participated in a global settlement, which included Solutia and Pharmacia, relating to certain Solutia PCB litigation in Alabama. Our strong cash generating capabilities allowed us to contribute to this settlement, thereby mitigating the longer term litigation risk associated with our contractual obligations related to Solutia. We paid a portion of our share of the cash settlement ($150 million) in August 2003, and the remaining $400 million was paid in September 2003. We expect to receive approximately $155 million in reimbursement from Pharmacias commercial insurance. We and the insurer responsible for approximately $140 million of the reimbursement have agreed to mediation of a dispute regarding the amount due. Miscellaneous receivables of $155 million have been recorded for the anticipated insurance reimbursement, approximately $140 million of which we expect to receive during fiscal year 2004, notwithstanding the mediation. As a result, we recorded a pretax charge of $396 million ($252 million aftertax, reflecting a tax benefit of $144 million) during the transition period. The net charge includes $1 million of related legal expenses. In consideration of our participation in the settlement, Solutia has agreed to issue warrants to us for the purchase of 10 million shares of Solutia stock. We will estimate and record the value of these warrants after the final warrant agreement with Solutia has been signed and the warrants have been received. Other expense net increased to $67 million during the transition period. Net other expense in 2003 consisted primarily of equity affiliate expense and foreign currency transaction losses. Our equity affiliate expense of $26 million is primarily related to our Renessen LLC (Renessen) joint venture. This joint venture is owned and funded 50 50 with Cargill Incorporated. It was formed to develop and market products for the grain processing and animal feed industries. During the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, we recorded approximately $20 million of other income related to sales of certain herbicide assets for use in ex U.S. markets, including the Nissan transaction in Japan and a smaller transaction with Nufarm Australia Ltd. (Nufarm) in the Australia and New Zealand markets. We also recognized $10 million of other income during the 2002 eight month period related to gains that were realized upon the sale of equity securities. These gains were slightly offset by net currency losses reflecting the devaluation of our net assets denominated in Argentine pesos. Net interest expense increased $11 million to $46 million during the transition period. Although our debt levels during the transition period were significantly lower than debt levels during the comparable period last year, higher interest rates associated with our long term senior notes led to overall higher interest expense. With the issuance of these notes, our debt mix has shifted from primarily commercial paper toward longer term borrowings, which carry higher interest rates. We recognized an income tax benefit of $27 million in 2003 on a pretax loss of $38 million. During the same period last year, we recognized an income tax provision of $13 million on $50 million of pretax income. The Solutia PCB litigation settlement expense in 2003 and the Argentine bad debt expense in 2002 significantly affected the eight month effective tax rate comparison. Without these items, the effective tax rate for both eight month periods would have been 33 percent. The factors above explain the change in income (loss) before the cumulative effect of accounting change. We had income of $37 million for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002; we had a loss of $11 million for the same period this year. Review of Calendar Year Financial Performance (calendar year 2002 compared to calendar year 2001, and calendar year 2001 compared to calendar year 2000) Year Ended Dec. 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net Sales $ 4,673 $ 5,462 $ 5,493 Income before cumulative effect of accounting change $ 129 $ 295 $ 175 Earnings per share (per pro forma share in 2000) $ 0.49 $ 1.12 $ 0.68 20 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Review of Calendar Year 2002 We recognized a net loss of $1.7 billion, or $6.45 per share, in 2002. This net loss included a $1.8 billion aftertax ($6.94 per share) goodwill impairment upon the adoption of a new goodwill accounting standard. In 2001, we recognized net income of $295 million, or $1.12 per share. The factors that affected the year to year comparison are discussed below. Net sales declined 14 percent to $4.7 billion in 2002 from $5.5 billion in 2001. Sales declined in both the Agricultural Productivity segment and, to a lesser extent, the Seeds and Genomics segment. In the Agricultural Productivity segment, continued competitive pressures on Roundup resulted in U.S. market share loss, and unfavorable weather conditions in key planting regions contributed to lower U.S. sales of Roundup. The effect of a shift in mix to lower priced glyphosate products also lowered U.S. sales of Roundup by decreasing the average net selling price. The Seeds and Genomics segment experienced higher seed sales in the United States. Higher corn seed sales were partly offset by lower soybean sales. Trait revenues in the United States increased in 2002, even though 2001 results included trait sales for more than one season because of our switch in 2001 to a royalty payment system for licensed traits in corn and soybeans. Both segments were affected in 2002 by economic conditions in Latin America (including the economic crisis that began in Argentina at the end of 2001), by operational changes we made to our business model to address the continued economic uncertainty and unfavorable market conditions there, and by the actions we took in conjunction with our customers in Argentina. Although these changes and actions significantly affected both segments EBIT through lower sales in Latin America and higher product returns in Argentina, they were intended to reduce investments in working capital and our credit risk and other exposures in Argentina and Brazil. Currency losses in Argentina also affected earnings in 2002 and, to a lesser extent, in 2001. In 2001, higher than anticipated returns of corn seed in Latin America primarily in Brazil negatively affected sales. For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors affecting net sales in 2001 and 2002, see Seeds and Genomics Segment and Agricultural Productivity Segment. Cost of goods sold declined 12 percent to $2.5 billion for 2002, reflective of lower sales. Excluding costs related to our restructuring plans, we were able to keep the unit manufacturing costs of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides flat, despite lower Roundup production volumes, which led to unfavorable cost of goods sold manufacturing variances. These costs were offset by cost management efforts and lower raw material and energy prices. Lower seed inventory costs in the United States were offset by higher seed obsolescence in Latin America. The combination of the aforementioned net sales and cost of goods sold factors resulted in an 18 percent decline in gross profit. As a percent of sales, gross profit declined one point. The gross profit effect of lower Roundup average net selling prices was slightly mitigated by increased sales of higher margin seed traits. Operating expenses in 2002 declined 6 percent from 2001, as a significant increase in Argentine bad debt expense was offset by the benefit of no longer amortizing goodwill, and by a decline in our expenses. SG&A expenses for 2002 declined 10 percent from 2001. These lower spending levels reflected cost management, lower employee incentives and other employee related costs, and an approximate $25 million reduction of costs stemming from the Nissan transaction in Japan. In 2002, we recorded $208 million of bad debt expense, the majority of which related to estimated uncollectible trade receivables in Argentina. The allowance for doubtful trade receivables included $154 million ($100 million aftertax) recorded in the second quarter because of the economic turmoil and market conditions in that country. The remaining bad debt expense in 2002 was in line with our historical experience. R&D expenses in 2002 decreased 6 percent from 2001, as we continued to focus our spending on seed breeding, plant biotechnology and genomics. The restructuring of our early genomics programs also contributed to the savings. Operating results in 2002 included the positive effect of SFAS 142, the new accounting standard related to the amortization of goodwill. Since we adopted SFAS 142 on Jan. 1, 2002, we no longer amortize goodwill. In comparison, we recorded $121 million ($106 million, or $0.40 per share aftertax) of amortization and adjustments of goodwill in 2001. Both 2002 and 2001 included charges relating to our restructuring plans. Results in 2002 included charges for our 2002 restructuring plan, and 2001 results included charges for our 2000 restructuring plan. Net pretax charges (including those recorded within cost of goods sold) related to our restructuring plans were $124 million in 2002, and $213 million in 2001. For further details on both plans, see Restructuring and Other Special Items in MD&A. Interest expense, net of interest income and capitalized interest, declined $14 million in 2002. We benefited from lower commercial paper interest rates during most of the year, as well as lower average borrowing levels. These benefits were partially offset by higher interest rates associated with our long term senior notes issued in August 2002. In 2001, higher interest capitalized on construction ($30 million in 2001 versus $8 million in 2002) reduced net interest expense, primarily associated with the construction of our Camaari, Brazil, facility, which was completed in late 2001. Other expense (net) in 2002 decreased significantly from other expense (net) in 2001. In both periods, other expense included equity affiliate expense of $41 million associated with our Renessen joint venture. Both 2001 and 2002 included gains realized upon the sale of equity securities (approximately $10 million in both years). On a year to year comparison, other expense (net) was affected by a number of 21 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K items. In 2002, these factors included the following: currency losses from net assets in Argentina, only partially offset by currency gains in Brazil; approximately $20 million of other income related to the Nissan and Nufarm transactions; and other expense related to a settlement of litigation matters with DuPont and DuPonts Pioneer subsidiary. In 2001, we recognized $127 million of other expense (net), as discussed below. Income taxes in 2002 decreased significantly from 2001, though the effective tax rate remained unchanged at 36 percent. The decline in income taxes was consistent with the lower pretax income in 2002. The absence of goodwill amortization had a favorable effect on the effective tax rate in 2002 because the majority of our historical goodwill amortization was not deductible for tax purposes. This improvement was offset by higher tax expense in certain ex U.S. jurisdictions, particularly in Latin America, and an increase in the relative cost of state income taxes. Review of Calendar Year 2001 Net sales for 2001 were $5.5 billion, down 1 percent from 2000 sales. The effects of exchange rates for foreign currency, particularly the Brazilian real and to a lesser extent the Japanese yen and the euro, unfavorably affected sales by 3 percent. Increased sales in the Seeds and Genomics segment were more than offset by an overall decline in sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment. Seeds and Genomics net sales in 2001 benefited from higher biotechnology trait revenues, and from our Latin American grain sales program, while higher than anticipated conventional corn seed returns in Latin America (primarily in Brazil) reduced sales. The increased trait revenues were attributable primarily to a shift in timing, as our decision to change trait fees from a technology fee system to a royalty system shifted certain trait revenues from the first half of 2002 to the last half of 2001. This new structure contributed approximately $90 million, or $0.34 per share, to 2001 net income. The higher trait revenues also reflected a royalty payment related to the resolution of issues regarding our YieldGard insect protected corn trait, the effects of a higher royalty rate for Roundup Ready soybeans, and the increased demand for our biotechnology traits. In the Agricultural Productivity segment, our animal agriculture and lawn and garden products businesses delivered sales increases. But these increases were more than offset by lower sales of Roundup and other glyphosate herbicides. Continued growth of Roundup Ready crops and further expansion of conservation tillage practices drove up sales volumes of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides, but the effects of lower average selling prices resulted in lower revenues. Cost of goods sold in 2001 increased 2 percent, to $2.8 billion, from cost of goods sold in 2000. Higher sales volumes of glyphosate contributed to this increase, as did start up expenses in 2001 associated with our new manufacturing facility in Camaari, Brazil. Our investments in improved technologies were part of our plan to increase overall glyphosate production capacity and to operate more cost effectively. Both years included charges to cost of goods sold related to our restructuring plan to focus on key crops and to streamline certain of our glyphosate manufacturing facilities. Excluding the costs related to our restructuring plan, we reduced unit manufacturing costs of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides by 3 percent. Gross profit declined 3 percent, to $2.6 billion. An increase in high margin trait revenues was more than offset by the negative effects of corn seed returns in Latin America and an overall decline in net selling prices of Roundup herbicides. As a result, gross profit as a percent of sales declined one point from 2000 to 2001. As a stand alone company focused solely on agriculture, we took steps to make worldwide operations more focused, productive, and cost efficient. SG&A expenses decreased approximately 5 percent to $1.1 billion in 2001. This decline was attributable to our continued cost management efforts and the absence of amortization expense related to certain assets that became fully amortized during 2000, and lower employee related expenses. R&D expenses decreased 5 percent, to $560 million for 2001 from $588 million for 2000. Our reduced R&D spending reflected our actions to focus on our key crops and to eliminate certain research projects. As a percent of net sales, both SG&A and R&D expenses improved when compared with 2000 percentages: SG&A expenses declined to 20.9 percent from 21.8 percent, and R&D declined to 10.3 percent from 10.7 percent. Amortization and adjustments of goodwill declined 43 percent to $121 million in 2001, compared with $212 million in 2000. In 2000, we wrote down $88 million of goodwill, primarily associated with a decision to terminate certain nutrition programs. Excluding this write down, amortization was relatively unchanged in a year over year comparison. Both 2001 and 2000 included restructuring and other special items related to our 2000 restructuring plan to focus on certain key crops and to streamline operations. Total charges to the plan were $474 million, with $213 million recorded in 2001 and $261 million recorded in 2000. See Restructuring and Other Special Items in MD&A for further details. Net interest expense in 2001 decreased 60 percent, to $73 million from $184 million in the prior year. This decrease largely reflected the $2.9 billion debt reduction that resulted from our separation from Pharmacia and our IPO in 2000. We also benefited from lower interest rates during 2001, as our borrowings were primarily in commercial paper. 22 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K A number of factors affected other expense (net) in 2001. It increased substantially to $127 million, compared with $49 million in 2000. Three separate legal matters affected other expense in 2001, resulting in a net charge of $60 million, as described in Note 24 Other Expense Net. In addition to these legal matters, we recognized $15 million of other expense in 2001 to reflect the devaluation of the Argentine peso. Other expense in 2001 also included a loss of $4 million related to the early retirement of ESOP debt. Other expense in 2001 also included impairments of equity investments; other expense in 2000 reflected a write down of an investment in marketable equity securities. Equity affiliate expense in 2001 related to our Renessen joint venture increased approximately $10 million from equity affiliate expense in the prior year. The effects of these higher expenses were slightly offset in 2001 by other income from a deferred payout provision related to a past business divestiture and gains on the sale of equity securities. Pretax income increased approximately 37 percent, or $125 million, in 2001 primarily because of reduced operating expenses and lower interest expense during the year. The absence of the $88 million goodwill write down in 2000 also contributed to the higher pretax income in 2001. The effective tax rate decreased to 36 percent from 48 percent in the prior year, primarily because the aforementioned write down of goodwill in 2000 was not deductible. See Restructuring and Other Special Items in MD&A for further details. Improved expectations of the recovery of certain Brazilian deferred tax assets also contributed to the lower effective tax rate in 2001. See Note 11 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Net income totaled $295 million, or $1.12 per share, for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, compared with $149 million, or $0.58 per pro forma share, for 2000. Results in 2000 included a cumulative effect of accounting change of $26 million aftertax, or $0.10 per pro forma share. This cumulative effect of accounting change resulted from our adoption of Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 101, the SECs interpretation of accounting guidelines on revenue recognition. Our adoption of SAB 101 in 2000 primarily affected recognition of license revenues from biotechnology traits sold through competitor seed companies. We restated license revenues in 2000 to be recognized when a grower purchases seed as compared with the previous practice of recognizing the license revenue when the third party seed company sold the seed into the distribution system. As a result, no license revenues from biotechnology traits sold by third party seed companies were recognized in the fourth quarter of 2000. As required by the provisions of SAB 101, we adopted its provisions as an accounting change recognizing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle as a loss of $26 million, net of taxes of $16 million, effective Jan. 1, 2000. SEEDS AND GENOMICS SEGMENT The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of our global seeds and related trait businesses, and our genetic technology platforms. We produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB and Asgrow, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We also provide genetic material and biotechnology traits to other seed companies for their seed brands. Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 2000 Total Net Sales $1,165 $ 845 $ 1,585 $ 1,707 $ 1,608 Gross Profit 625 377 838 869 729 EBIT(1) 18 (271 ) (105 ) (240 ) (581 ) (1) Earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes. See Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements for further details. Seeds and Genomics Financial Performance for the Transition Period Sales in the Seeds and Genomics segment improved more than $300 million, with all crops experiencing gains in seed and trait sales. The largest gains were in Latin America and the United States. In Latin America, seed sales were depressed last year, when we recorded additional return accruals in Argentina in response to the contracting market that was affected by that countrys economic crisis. We saw higher corn seed sales and less seed obsolescence there this year. This lower return and obsolescence experience in the region stemmed from improved market conditions, coupled with the benefits of the operational changes we instituted last year. However, the primary sales activity in Argentina occurs at the beginning of fiscal year 2004 (which starts in September 2003), when the predominant planting season starts. In Brazil, the sales season begins during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year (which starts in June). Favorable currency effects and strong market performance in Europe also contributed to corn seed growth. Our operations in France led the strong performance in that region, delivering a market share gain this year. Continued growth of our stacked corn and cotton traits drove U.S. sales higher. These higher value stacked trait products deliver herbicide tolerance and insect protection in a single seed. Canola trait revenues also increased in the eight month comparison. An increasing percentage of our seed sales contain a biotechnology trait, demonstrating continued growth in demand for our biotechnology products. U.S. trait acreage continues to experience double digit growth, with particularly strong performance by Roundup Ready corn and stacked corn and cotton traits. U.S. corn seed sales also increased. The quality of Monsantos corn seed portfolio was evidenced by another market share gain on top of last years gain in the United States. The Seeds and Genomics segment delivered positive EBIT of $18 million for the transition period. This is a significant improvement over the EBIT loss of $271 million in the same period last year. Gross profit as a percent of sales increased 9 percentage points. Although these gains primarily 23 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K reflect improved Latin American operations in 2003, they also demonstrate the Seeds and Genomics segments increasing contribution to Monsantos results. Segment EBIT for the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2002, included charges for restructuring and additional bad debt expense related to Argentine receivables. The transition period EBIT reflected higher SG&A expenses, as the effects of higher incentive accruals and other employee related costs were partially offset by reductions in other SG&A and R&D costs. Seeds and Genomics Financial Performance for Calendar Year 2002 Net sales for the Seeds and Genomics segment declined to $1.6 billion in 2002. Sales in Latin America were negatively affected by the adverse market and economic conditions described below. The Latin American net sales decline was partially offset by strong U.S. sales and market performance of our branded corn seed. Trait revenues also increased from 2001 to 2002, despite the fact that 2001 trait revenues included an additional $0.34 per share from a timing change in revenue recognition. Grower acceptance of our biotechnology traits continues to rise, as demonstrated by the growth in total acres planted with our traits. In 2002, we estimate that acreage planted with Monsantos technology traits grew by 13 percent in the United States and by 14 percent globally. Also contributing to the increased trait revenues was the benefit and growth of new agreements with key licensees. Seeds and Genomics segment results in 2002 were significantly affected by events in Latin America. In 2002, we changed our business model in Latin America in order to reduce working capital levels and reduce our credit risk and exposure in Argentina and Brazil as a result of the continued economic uncertainty in that region. Results were also affected by adverse market conditions in 2002 and 2001. In Argentina, we experienced approximately $75 million of higher than anticipated seed returns (primarily corn seed) in 2002 because of the economic crisis that began at the end of 2001 and the flooding in that same year. In 2001, we experienced approximately $120 million of higher than anticipated returns of high priced corn seed, primarily in Brazil. In 2002, the continued deterioration of the Brazilian corn market negatively affected sales. Farmers had switched more land to soybeans because of their lower input costs. Since Monsanto has less of a presence in the Brazilian soybean market, sales were lower during that period. Our Latin American grain sales program also affected the year to year comparison. Results in 2001 included approximately $65 million of net sales and related cost of goods sold associated with this program. During 2002, we changed the way we account for the program to no longer record revenues and cost of goods sold of essentially the same amount. Under the revised program, we no longer take ownership of the grain, thereby eliminating the associated inventory risk. Although this change affects our net sales and cost of goods sold comparison, the effect on the EBIT year to year comparison is minimal. Corn seed and corn biotechnology trait revenues in the United States increased, reflecting an increase in planted corn acreage in 2002 and strong market performance by our DEKALB and Asgrow brands during the 2002 selling season. Our branded corn seed gained market share in 2002. Monsantos Roundup Ready and YieldGard corn traits both the single trait and the stacked trait versions performed exceptionally well. A decline in U.S. soybean seed and soybean trait revenues, which stemmed from the reduced planting area, slightly offset these corn seed and trait sales increases. However, despite the market dynamics of lower acres and an increased supply of seed, our soybean brands maintained their price in 2002, and held most of the market share gains achieved in 2001. Even though there were fewer planted acres of soybeans in 2003, U.S. soybean trait revenues in late 2002 (in preparation for the upcoming 2003 season) increased as a higher percentage of our branded seed sales contained a biotechnology trait. Seeds and Genomics EBIT in 2002 was a loss of $105 million, an improvement compared with the 2001 EBIT loss of $240 million. This EBIT improvement was achieved despite an overall decline in sales for the segment. Most of our goodwill relates to our acquired seed businesses, so this segments EBIT benefited from no longer amortizing goodwill in 2002. In 2001, this segments EBIT loss included $117 million of goodwill amortization expense. In 2002, Seeds and Genomics EBIT was negatively affected by a portion of the increase in bad debt expense related to estimated uncollectible accounts receivable in Argentina. Lower seed inventory costs in the United States were mostly offset by higher seed obsolescence in Latin America. However, gross profit as a percentage of sales increased. Sales gains in high margin traits more than offset the Latin American gross profit declines. Lower operating expenses had a positive effect on EBIT. SG&A spending was lower as a result of our continued focus on cost management and lower employee related costs. R&D expenses also declined, reflecting savings from the restructuring of our early genomics programs. Several items affected other expense (net) in both years, including litigation matters and other income related to gains that were realized upon the sale of equity securities. For more details, see Note 24 Other Expense Net. Seeds and Genomics Financial Performance for Calendar Year 2001 Net sales for the Seeds and Genomics segment totaled $1.7 billion in 2001, topping 2000 sales of $1.6 billion by more than 6 percent. Revenues from our biotechnology traits increased significantly compared with year earlier sales, because of a number of factors. Higher trait revenues, primarily in the United States, were driven by increased demand for our technologies (including higher value stacked traits), a higher Roundup Ready soybean royalty rate, and to a greater extent, a shift in timing. A new pricing structure and approach to the market starting with the 2002 selling season resulted in a shift in the recognition of certain trait 24 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K revenues from third party seed companies from the first half of 2002 to the last half of 2001, and contributed approximately $90 million, or $0.34 per share, to 2001 net income. This change from a technology fee system to a royalty system in the United States was intended to simplify the purchase of seed with our traits, and to allow seed companies to have more flexibility in pricing their products. Net sales in 2001 also included trait revenues received from Pioneer upon resolution of issues related to our MON810 YieldGard products. These revenues reflected royalties related to MON810 YieldGard products sold during 2001. Stronger cotton revenue reflected higher demand for and use of biotechnology traits, particularly our stacked Bollgard and Roundup Ready traits. Conventional soybean seed sales also increased, as more U.S. acres were planted in soybeans in 2001. More than 70 percent of the U.S. planted soybean acres contained our Roundup Ready trait in 2001. Worldwide, the number of acres planted with our biotechnology traits increased approximately 14 percent to 118 million acres in 2001, from 103 million acres in 2000. Our 2001 sales results also benefited from approximately $65 million in net sales related to our Latin American grain sales program. This program, which helped reduce our credit risk during 2001, increased net sales but contributed minimally to gross profit and EBIT. Lower conventional corn seed sales in Latin America offset these net sales increases, as higher than anticipated returns of relatively high priced corn seed negatively affected 2001 sales by approximately $120 million. These seed returns resulted from our strategic decision in 2000 to sell higher performance corn seed. Many farmers chose not to plant that seed, which resulted in substantial returns of relatively high priced corn seed in 2001. Corn seed sales in the United States also decreased. Fewer acres were planted in corn in 2001, partly because many U.S. farmers chose to plant more acres in soybeans. Seeds and Genomics segment EBIT improved to a loss of $240 million in 2001, from a loss of $581 million in 2000. Higher net sales and continued cost management drove the EBIT improvement. Restructuring and other special items affected EBIT during 2000 and, to a much lesser extent, during 2001. The 2000 special items included a significant write down of goodwill, and higher net charges than those recorded in 2001 related to our plan to focus on certain key crops. EBIT in 2001 also included the net effects of certain legal matters. Gross profit for the Seeds and Genomics segment increased 19 percent from 2000 gross profit. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit improved 6 points. This improvement was fueled by higher sales of relatively high margin trait revenues, which more than mitigated the negative effects of the corn seed returns in Latin America and lower corn seed sales in the United States. As previously discussed, our 2001 results benefited from a change in the marketing approach on trait fees. Lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by higher inventory obsolescence expense. Declines in operating expenses reflected our cost management efforts as we narrowed our focus to certain key crops. SG&A expenses declined 12 percent in 2001, and R&D expenses declined 7 percent. The SG&A improvement also benefited from the absence of amortization related to certain seed assets that became fully amortized during 2000, as well as lower employee related expenses. As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses improved by 9 points. Other expense (net) increased $25 million in 2001, largely because of the Aventis and DuPont litigation matters. The devaluation of the Argentine peso, higher equity affiliate expense related to our Renessen joint venture, and impairments of equity investments also drove other expenses higher. These items were slightly offset by the gain on the sale of equity investments. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY SEGMENT The Agricultural Productivity segment consists of our crop protection products (Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides and selective chemistries) and our animal agriculture, lawn and garden herbicides, and environmental technologies businesses. We are a leading worldwide developer, producer and marketer of crop protection products, including Roundup herbicide. Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 2000 Net Sales Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides $1,319 $ 1,360 $ 1,844 $ 2,422 $ 2,625 All other agricultural productivity products 889 905 1,244 1,333 1,260 Total Net Sales $2,208 $ 2,265 $ 3,088 $ 3,755 $ 3,885 Gross Profit Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides $ 536 $ 661 $ 823 $ 1,234 $ 1,433 All other agricultural productivity products 416 404 519 542 561 Total Gross Profit $ 952 $ 1,065 $ 1,342 $ 1,776 $ 1,994 EBIT(1) $ (10 ) $ 356 $ 366 $ 772 $ 1,099 (1) Earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes. See Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements for further details. Agricultural Productivity Financial Performance for the Transition Period EBIT for the Agricultural Productivity segment declined to a loss of $10 million, from positive EBIT of $356 million for the same period of 2002. Excluding the $396 million effect of the Solutia PCB settlement, segment EBIT would have shown a $30 million increase. Improved operations in Latin America and lower costs more than offset reduced U.S. sales. Agricultural Productivity net sales in the transition period declined 3 percent from net sales in the comparable period in 2002. Lower U.S. sales of Roundup were partially offset by sales gains for Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides elsewhere. As expected, in the postpatent U.S. market, 25 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K we continue to experience competitive pressures and a shift of sales volumes to our lower priced branded and non branded glyphosate products. As a result, the average net selling price of Roundup branded products in the United States during the transition period was about 24 percent lower than it was during the comparable period in the previous year. In addition, volumes sold to distributors during the transition period were less than end user usage, which also reduced net sales. Volumes of branded Roundup declined 9 percent for the transition period. In 2002, adverse weather conditions reduced the amount of glyphosate used in the U.S. over the top market. In the near term, we continue to expect lower market share and lower average net selling prices and market share for Roundup in the postpatent environment. Improved performance of glyphosate based herbicides outside the United States partially offset the U.S. net sales decline. Worldwide, volumes of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides grew. Roundup sales in Latin America improved from those in 2002, when the economic crisis in Argentina and the operational changes we made in the region caused sales to be lower for that period. We also benefited from increased demand from supply customers other herbicide producers to whom we sell glyphosate, capitalizing on our manufacturing economies of scale. The Asia Pacific region also experienced higher sales volumes during the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2003, led by increased demand from supply customers and by more favorable weather conditions in Australia. However, these gains in Asia Pacific were partly offset by a net sales decrease in Japan, because of our 2002 sale of certain herbicide assets to Nissan. Net sales of our other Agricultural Productivity products declined $16 million during the transition period. Selective herbicide sales were down, primarily because of lower sales in the U.S. acetanilide market. This trend reflects the competitive nature of this market and continued adoption of Roundup Ready corn traits. Sales in 2003 were also negatively affected by wet weather, which led to some of this seasons acetanilide applications being lost. Distributors were also conservatively managing their inventories, which also lowered our sales this period. The animal agriculture business reported moderately lower sales of Posilac bovine somatotropin in an extremely weak milk price environment during the first eight months of 2003. Higher sales of lawn and garden herbicides partially offset these sales declines, as the business benefited from favorable early season weather in the western United States and favorable exchange rates outside the United States. Lawn and garden sales were also higher because of an increase in the number of retail outlets and continued communication of product benefits via national television advertising. We are party to an agency and marketing agreement with Scotts with respect to our lawn and garden herbicide business. For additional details, see Our Agreement with Scotts, appearing elsewhere in this section. As noted earlier, EBIT for the segment was down for the transition period. Significantly lower restructuring costs in 2003 and unusually high bad debt expense in Argentina in 2002, as well as improved operations in Latin America, partially offset the Roundup sales decline and the PCB settlement. Continued cost management also helped lessen the EBIT effect of the lower sales of Roundup, though SG&A expenses were slightly higher overall because of higher employee related costs. Segment results in 2002 also included gains from the Nissan transaction. Our Agreement with Scotts In 1998, Monsanto entered into an agency and marketing agreement with Scotts with respect to our lawn and garden herbicide business. Under the agreement, beginning in the fourth quarter of 1998, Scotts was obligated to pay us a $20 million fixed fee each year to defray costs associated with the lawn and garden business. Scotts payment of a portion of this fee owed in each of the first three years of the agreement was deferred and is required to be paid at later dates, with interest. Monsanto is accruing the deferred portions of the $20 million annual fixed fee owed by Scotts ratably over the periods during which it is being earned as a reduction of SG&A expenses. We are also accruing the interest on the amounts owed by Scotts and including it in interest income. The total amount owed by Scotts, including accrued interest, was approximately $50 million as of Aug. 31, 2003 and Dec. 31, 2002, and $48 million at Dec. 31, 2001. Scotts began paying these deferred amounts ($5 million per year in monthly installments beginning in October 2002). Agricultural Productivity Financial Performance for Calendar Year 2002 The 2002 decline in Agricultural Productivity segment net sales was largely attributable to lower sales of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides. Lower sales of these products was driven by a decline in both volumes and average net selling prices, with the largest declines in the United States and Argentina. In the United States, 2002 net sales of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides were down 24 percent from 2001 net sales. Market share loss because of continued competitive pressures in the burndown market, and to a lesser extent the over the top market, contributed to the lower volumes. In addition, adverse weather conditions in the second and third quarters of 2002 reduced the amount of glyphosate used in the over the top, fallow, and postharvest markets. As a result, the overall growth of the U.S. market was lower than expected, with sales volumes of Roundup in the United States declining 17 percent. In 2002, average net selling prices of branded Roundup in the United States declined approximately 11 percent from 2001 average net selling prices. The lower average net selling prices included the effect of continued competitive pressures and a shift in mix to lower priced glyphosate products. Year end distribution inventory levels of Roundup in the United States were roughly flat when compared with 2001 year end levels. In 26 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K 2002, we successfully began the launch of Roundup WeatherMAX, a new high performance formulation of Roundup that provides consistent weed control in a variety of less than ideal weather conditions. Poor economic conditions and the operational decisions we made to reduce our risk of doing business in Latin America negatively affected sales of Roundup in 2002. These operational changes included working with our customers in Argentina during this difficult time to maintain our long term customer relationships, thereby reducing risks for both parties. Because of the economic conditions in Argentina brought on by the economic crisis that began late in 2001 and continued into 2002, we allowed some crop protection product returns on a case by case basis. This one time exception to our policy regarding crop protection product returns reduced sales of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides by approximately $60 million in 2002. Roundup sales in Brazil declined as well, as distribution inventory levels decreased in that country. In Latin America, we intend to keep our distribution inventories at the lower levels achieved in 2002. In Asia, competitive pricing of generic products decreased sales early in 2002. In addition, sales in Asia declined for the year as a result of the mid year Nissan transaction. Overall sales of our other Agricultural Productivity businesses declined, though sales in our lawn and garden herbicides and animal agriculture businesses increased. Sales of our U.S. acetanilide products declined because of the adverse weather conditions discussed above and competitive conditions. Sales in our environmental technologies business also declined because of unfavorable industry conditions. These declines were slightly mitigated by growth in our animal agriculture business, which was led by an 8 percent increase in sales volumes of Posilac. The lawn and garden herbicide business delivered strong sales growth, resulting from growth in the market and market share gains driven by new product introductions and stronger advertising. These factors led to an overall decline in EBIT for the segment in 2002, with the most notable effects coming from declines in the United States and Latin America, driven primarily by lower sales as discussed previously. Lower production volumes of Roundup led to unfavorable cost of goods sold manufacturing volume variances, but these effects were offset by cost management efforts and lower prices for raw materials and energy. Segment EBIT was negatively affected by the increase in bad debt expense relating to estimated uncollectible accounts receivable in Argentina. Our environmental technologies business also experienced an EBIT decline. Lower operating expenses slightly mitigated these margin shortfalls. The sales of certain herbicide assets to Nissan and Nufarm for use in Asia Pacific markets reduced SG&A expenses and provided other income. These EBIT gains were partially offset by lower herbicide sales in Asia. SG&A expenses also declined because of continued cost management and lower employee related expenses. In addition, our R&D spending was lower in 2002, as we continued to focus our spending. Manufacturing efficiencies in our Posilac business allowed us to reduce cost of goods sold for that business, even while animal agriculture sales increased. Agricultural Productivity Financial Performance for Calendar Year 2001 In the Agricultural Productivity segment, net sales decreased 3 percent to $3.8 billion in 2001, from $3.9 billion in 2000. Lower herbicide sales offset higher sales from other agricultural productivity businesses, including lawn and garden products and animal agriculture. Worldwide net sales of our Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides of $2.4 billion in 2001 declined 8 percent from 2000 net sales of $2.6 billion. Sales volumes of these products grew 2 percent, with Roundup volumes relatively unchanged and volumes of glyphosate that we manufacture and supply to third parties up 9 percent. The United States and Latin America posted volume gains on the growth of Roundup Ready acres, and the adoption of conservation tillage practices increased in major world areas. However, major flooding and economic uncertainty in Argentina negatively affected volumes, as did adverse weather conditions in Australia and Canada. In certain world areas (Brazil and the United States, in particular), market conditions had increased distribution channel inventories. The effect of generic competition in certain ex U.S. markets brought sales prices of Roundup down. The effects of currency fluctuations in Brazil and Asia also unfavorably affected sales prices. Excluding the effects of currency fluctuations, worldwide prices of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides declined nearly 6 percent. Sales volumes of Roundup in the United States increased 9 percent during our first full year without glyphosate patent protection, while a decline in the prices of these products, driven primarily by the mix of products sold, resulted in an overall decline in net sales. Roundup Ready acres, conservation tillage growth, expanded distribution of higher value Roundup UltraMAX and successful introductions of unique formulations of Roundup (such as RT Master) contributed to the U.S. volume increase. Net sales of our other Agricultural Productivity products totaled $1.3 billion, a 6 percent increase from net sales in 2000. The lawn and garden business delivered a strong sales performance, driven by volume growth. Our animal agriculture business also contributed to the growth, led by an increase in sales of Posilac. Results in 2001 also benefited from the inclusion of sales from a previously unconsolidated investment, which was consolidated during the first half of 2000, when we acquired a controlling interest. Global sales of acetanilide and other selective herbicides were lower in 2001, primarily because of adverse weather conditions in Argentina and Canada. EBIT for the Agricultural Productivity segment declined 30 percent to $772 million in 2001, compared with $1.1 billion in 2000. This decrease was because of lower gross profit and a higher level of restructuring and special items in 2001 than 27 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K in 2000. Gross profit for the segment declined approximately 11 percent, and gross profit as a percent of sales declined 4 percentage points. Lower Roundup prices, including the effects of foreign currency exchange rates and mix of products sold, were the primary contributors to this decline. In addition, 2001 results included sales and cost of goods sold related to the previously unconsolidated investment discussed above. Although we reduced glyphosate unit manufacturing costs in 2001, gross profit was adversely affected by our actions to streamline manufacturing facilities. An EBIT improvement for the animal agriculture business can be attributed to increased sales of Posilac and more efficient manufacturing performance. Operating expenses declined 1 percent, partially attributable to lower employee related costs. Operating expenses as a percent of sales increased by one percentage point, primarily because of lower sales. Other expense (net) increased by approximately $50 million, as a result of a litigation settlement and the devaluation of the Argentine peso. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER SPECIAL ITEMS Our results include restructuring activities and other special items that significantly affected net income. See Note 5 Restructuring and Other Special Items for further details. The pretax income (expense) components were as follows: Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2001 2000 Restructuring charges $ $ (88 ) $ (99 ) $ (70 ) Reversal of restructuring reserves 8 13 (1) 8 4 Write offs of: Trade receivables (12 ) Inventories (6 ) (45 ) (60 ) Property, plant and equipment (45 ) (57 ) (22 ) Goodwill (2 ) (88 ) Other intangible assets (3 ) (3 ) Other assets (9 ) Recoverable amount from a third party 2 Other net (6 ) (10 ) Total pretax restructuring and other special items $ 8 $ (124 ) $ (213 ) (2) $ (261 ) (2) (1) Of this amount, $8 million of the 2002 reversals related to the 2000 restructuring plan. The remaining $5 million was related to the 2002 restructuring plan. (2) These components represent the net charges for the 2000 restructuring plan. The total for the two year plan is $474 million. 2002 Restructuring Plan (charges recorded in calendar 2002): In 2002, Monsantos management approved a restructuring plan. Under this plan, various R&D programs and sites were shut down in the United States and Europe. This restructuring plan also involved the closure and downsizing of certain agricultural chemical manufacturing facilities in Asia Pacific and the United States as a result of more efficient production capacity installed at other Monsanto manufacturing sites. Certain seed sites were consolidated and certain U.S. swine facilities were exited. Finally, the plan included work force reductions in addition to those related to the facility closures. These additional reductions were primarily marketing and administrative positions in Asia Pacific, Europe Africa, and the United States. In connection with the 2002 restructuring plan, we recorded $132 million pretax of net charges in 2002. These restructuring costs primarily related to the closure of certain research and manufacturing sites, as well as work force reductions. Work force reductions of $64 million included involuntary employee separation costs for approximately 1,140 employees worldwide, including positions in marketing, manufacturing, R&D, and administration. As of Aug. 31, 2003, approximately 1,080 of the planned employee separations were completed. Facility closures and other exit costs totaled $24 million: contract terminations ($8 million), equipment dismantling and disposal ($8 million), and other shutdown costs ($8 million) resulting from the exit of certain research and manufacturing sites. We also wrote off $45 million of property, plant and equipment and $6 million of inventories (recorded within cost of goods sold) associated with these exit activities. Restructuring reversals of $5 million offset these charges in 2002, as did a $2 million recoverable amount from a third party. The reversals stemmed primarily from facility closing costs that were lower than originally estimated and higher proceeds from disposed assets than originally estimated. Restructuring reversals were recorded for work force reductions, primarily because severance expenses were lower than originally estimated. The recoverable amount from a third party represents a portion of work force reduction and exit costs that will be reimbursed to Monsanto. Reversals of $5 million were recorded in 2003 because we were able to settle certain liabilities for less than originally estimated. As of Aug. 31, 2003, the reserve balance related to this plan was $5 million. Cash payments to complete these restructuring actions are expected to be made during fiscal year 2004, and will be funded from operations. These payments are not expected to affect the companys liquidity significantly. We anticipate that the actions related to this plan will yield annual cash savings of more than $50 million. 2000 Restructuring Plan (charges recorded in calendar 2001 and 2000): In 2000, Monsantos management formulated a plan as part of our overall strategy to focus on certain key crops and to streamline operations. Restructuring and other special items, primarily associated with the implementation of this plan, were recorded in 2000 and 2001. These charges totaled $474 million pretax, with $261 million recorded in 2000, and $213 million recorded in 2001. The 2001 net charges were primarily for the streamlining of manufacturing operations, the discontinuation of certain seed hybrids, the elimination of noncore activities, and the exit of certain research programs. This plan also involved the closure and downsizing of certain agricultural chemical 28 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K manufacturing facilities to eliminate duplicate manufacturing capacity to formulate and package herbicides. Due to geographical location and cost considerations, improved technologies were installed at other Monsanto manufacturing sites. These sites, by incorporating technological advancements, have been able to increase their production capacity to meet current and expected future demand for Roundup herbicide and other herbicides. The pretax charge of $213 million was partially offset by the reversal of $8 million of restructuring liabilities recorded during 2000 and 2001, primarily because severance expenses were lower than originally estimated. In addition, reversals of $4 million were recorded in 2001 primarily because severance expenses relating to the 1998 restructuring plan were lower than originally estimated. The work force reduction charges in 2001 ($50 million) and 2000 ($61 million) included involuntary separation costs for approximately 1,500 employees worldwide, including positions in administration, R&D, and manufacturing. Facility closures and other exit costs in 2000 included contract termination costs ($5 million), equipment dismantling and disposal costs ($2 million), and other shutdown costs ($2 million). Facility closures and other exit costs in 2001 included contract termination costs ($28 million), property, plant and equipment dismantling and disposal costs ($18 million), and other shutdown costs ($3 million). The inventory write offs in 2000 related to laureate oil, seed and other inventories. The inventory write offs in 2001 related to discontinued seed hybrids ($31 million), unused raw materials at closed agricultural chemical manufacturing facilities ($6 million), and other inventories, including certain discontinued agricultural chemical products ($8 million). Inventory write offs for both years, as well as $37 million in property, plant and equipment impairments in 2001, were recorded in cost of goods sold. The remaining $20 million in property, plant and equipment impairments in 2001 was recorded in restructuring charges, and was related to the consolidation of agricultural chemical distribution sites and various corporate assets. The intangible asset impairment in 2000 included a $79 million goodwill impairment associated with the decision to terminate certain nutrition programs. The cost to carry out certain actions related to the 2000 restructuring plan has been lower than originally anticipated. Accordingly, reserve balances have been reduced by reversals of $3 million in the transition period and $8 million each of the 12 month periods ended Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001. These actions under the 2000 restructuring plan have yielded annual cash savings of more than $100 million. The outstanding restructuring reserve balance related to this plan is $8 million. We expect the remaining activities associated with this plan to be completed during fiscal year 2004. The remaining restructuring actions will be funded from operations. These actions are not expected to affect the companys liquidity significantly. Also included in the 2000 plan were special items. In 2001, a total charge of $6 million was recorded in other expense (net) to reflect the impairment of equity investments caused by adverse business developments of the investees. In 2000, there were other special items of $10 million: $3 million for costs associated with a failed joint venture, and $7 million for the recognition of an impairment of a marketable equity security that was classified as available for sale. October 2003 Announcement: In October 2003, we announced plans to continue to reduce the costs associated with our agricultural chemistry business as that segment matures globally in a postpatent environment. In addition, we will further concentrate our R&D efforts on certain projects. More specifically, these plans include: (1) reducing costs, particularly those associated with our Roundup herbicide business, (2) exiting our European breeding and seed business for wheat and barley; and (3) discontinuing our plant made pharmaceuticals program. These plans are expected to produce aftertax savings of approximately $80 million to $95 million in fiscal year 2005, and approximately $90 million to $105 million in fiscal year 2006, with continuing savings going forward. These actions will require charges of up to $155 million aftertax in fiscal year 2004. We estimate that this restructuring will require approximately $90 million of cash. Our decisions about the European wheat and barley business will also require a reevaluation for potential impairment of goodwill related to our global wheat business. Goodwill for our wheat businesses was recorded at approximately $80 million pretax as of Aug. 31, 2003; we currently anticipate $69 million of this goodwill will be written off in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004, resulting in a $0.26 per share impairment charge to net income. We expect that these actions will lower our SG&A costs as a percent of sales. 29 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Working Capital and Financial Condition Transition period analysis: As of Aug. 31, 2003 2002 Cash and cash equivalents $ 281 $ 137 Short term investments 230 1 Trade receivables, net 2,296 2,451 Inventories 1,230 1,284 Other current assets(1) 925 683 Total Current Assets 4,962 4,556 Short term debt 269 771 Accounts payable 290 291 Accrued liabilities(2) 1,385 648 Total Current Liabilities $1,944 $ 1,710 Working Capital(3) $3,018 $ 2,846 Current Ratio(3) 2.55:1 2.66:1 (1) Includes miscellaneous receivables, deferred tax assets and other current assets. (2) Includes Solutia PCB litigation settlement liability, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued marketing programs, deferred revenues, and miscellaneous short term accruals. (3) Working capital is total current assets less total current liabilities; current ratio represents total current assets divided by total current liabilities. Our balance sheet as of Aug. 31, 2003, reflects working capital of $3 billion. The August 2003 working capital grew from working capital levels as of December 2002 year end, consistent with the seasonality of our business. While trade accounts receivable balances are typically higher at this point in the U.S. growing season, certain liabilities are lower. For example, balances relating to deferred revenue and grower liabilities as of Aug. 31, 2003, were lower than balances as of Dec. 31, 2002. For the August 2003 to August 2002 comparison, working capital levels grew because of the following factors: Our cash position reflects the strength of our balance sheet. As of Aug. 31, 2003, we had more than $280 million of cash on hand. We have also had more than $200 million invested in short term debt securities since last December. We used a mix of cash and short term borrowings to fund the Solutia PCB litigation settlement payments made in September 2003. Short term debt levels declined from year ago levels. Our strong cash position has allowed us to reduce our reliance on short term financing. The decline in short term debt also reflects the change in our debt mix to longer term borrowings. These working capital increases were partially offset by these factors: The effect of the Solutia PCB settlement decreased our August 2003 working capital levels, as increased accrued liabilities were largely offset by a receivable due from commercial insurance and deferred tax assets. Improved operational performance drove accrued liabilities higher because of accruals for customer incentive programs, employee incentives, and income taxes. Our strong working capital management led to lower trade receivables despite higher sales levels and lower inventories, which also decreased net working capital levels. Inventories of finished goods, goods in process, and raw materials are maintained to meet customer requirements and our scheduled production. Consistent with the nature of the seed industry, we generally produce in one growing season the seed inventories we expect to sell in the following season. In general, we do not manufacture our products against a backlog of firm orders; production is geared primarily to projections of demand. Calendar year analysis: As of Dec. 31, 2002 2001 Working Capital $ 2,614 $ 2,420 Current Ratio 2.44:1 2.02:1 Our balance sheet as of Dec. 31, 2002, reflected working capital of $2.6 billion, a $200 million increase from the prior year end. Lower receivables and inventories were more than offset by higher cash and short term investments. Our cash and cash equivalents increased, largely because customer prepayments were higher in the fourth quarter of 2002 than in the fourth quarter of 2001. Approximately $250 million was invested as short term debt securities as of Dec. 31, 2002. These amounts were used to fund various anticipated cash needs in 2003. Accounts payable declined, reflecting lower spending as we continue to manage costs. The factors above, as well as our customers use of a new customer financing program (discussed in more detail in this section) for certain U.S. distributors, resulted in our having no commercial paper borrowings outstanding at the end of 2002. The cash and short term investments increases, coupled with lower payables, drove working capital higher. However, these working capital increases were partly offset by the effect of lower inventories and, to a greater extent, lower net trade receivables at year end 2002 than at year end 2001. Effective management of inventories and lower production rates led to lower finished goods and raw materials inventory levels. Goods in process inventories increased slightly, resulting from a strategic increase in our safety stock levels. Net trade accounts receivable were $1.8 billion on Dec. 31, 2002, down considerably from Dec. 31, 2001, net trade receivables of $2.3 billion. Net accounts receivable in Argentina and Brazil declined to $528 million, from more than $1 billion in net accounts receivable in 2001. The decline in worldwide net trade receivables was driven by many factors, including lower sales, the $154 million pretax Argentine bad debt reserve 30 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K established in the second quarter of 2002, and a relatively high proportion of sales on cash terms in Argentina. In addition, aggressive collection efforts, particularly in Latin America, and higher customer prepayments contributed to the receivables decline. Customer Financing Program: Monsanto refers certain of its interested U.S. distributors to a third party specialty lender administered by Bank One, N.A., which can fund their purchases of Monsanto products at attractive interest rates. In connection with this financing option, we collected approximately $120 million during the transition period, and approximately $90 million during the comparable period last year. This $500 million revolving credit and liquidity facility allows certain U.S. customers to finance product purchases, and allows us to reduce our reliance on commercial paper borrowings. The company originates these loans on behalf of the third party specialty lender using Monsantos credit guidelines approved by the lender, a special purpose entity. The loans are sold to multiseller commercial paper conduits through a nonconsolidated qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE). We have no ownership interest in the lender, the QSPE, or the loans. We service the loans and provide a first loss guarantee of up to $100 million. We have not issued, nor are we obligated to issue, any debt or equity securities in connection with this arrangement. As of Aug. 31, 2003, the customer loans held by the QSPE and the QSPEs liability to the conduits was approximately $200 million. The lender or the conduits may restrict or discontinue the facility at any time. If the facility were to terminate, existing sold loans would be collected by the QSPE over their remaining terms (generally 12 months or less) and we would revert to our past practice of providing customers with direct credit purchase terms. Servicing fee revenues were not significant. As of Aug. 31, 2003, Monsantos recorded guarantee liability was less than $1 million, based on our historical collection experience with these customers and our current assessment of credit exposure. Adverse changes in the actual loss rate would increase the liability. In January 2003, FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, was issued, but because QSPEs are excluded from the scope of FIN 46, we do not expect this interpretation to affect the way we account for this arrangement. Cash Flow Eight Months Ended Aug. 31, Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided (required) by operations $ (214 ) $ (233 ) $ 1,108 $ 616 $ 671 Net cash required by investing activities (124 ) (112 ) (469 ) (433 ) (935 ) Free Cash Flow (338 ) (345 ) 639 183 (264 ) Net cash provided (required) by financing activities 191 175 (518 ) (7 ) 369 Transition Period Analysis: Free cash flow, which represents the total of net cash provided or required by operations and provided or required by investing activities, was a negative $338 million for the transition period. Our negative free cash flow for the first eight months of 2003 and 2002 is consistent with our historical experience, as we use cash to fund the seasonal fluctuations in our business. Even considering the $150 million cash payment made as partial payment of our share of Solutias PCB litigation and an increase of $111 million of voluntary pension contributions in 2003, our operations required slightly less cash during the transition period than in the comparable period last year. We continue to carefully manage our investments in trade receivables and inventories, and we have benefited from strong collections. Our improved financial performance also drove accrued liabilities higher at the end of August than at the same time last year. The $252 million aftertax charge related to our participation in the settlement of Solutias PCB litigation is included in the net income (loss) component of the cash flow statement. The $245 million item that did not require cash reflects the $400 million liability associated with the settlement, net of the related insurance receivable. Net cash required by investing activities increased slightly. Proceeds from the sale of herbicide assets to Nissan in 2002 were offset by lower capital expenditures and investments in short term debt securities in 2003. Investments of $250 million matured throughout April and May of 2003, and following strong collections in the second calendar quarter, we invested $230 million in short term debt securities. Because of the strong cash generating capabilities demonstrated by Monsanto, in April 2003 our board of directors authorized an increase in the quarterly dividend. In addition, a share repurchase program was approved in July 2003. This repurchase program allows for the purchase of up to $500 million of our common stock over a three year period. Although no shares were repurchased as of Aug. 31, 2003, we have purchased 2.2 million shares for approximately $55 million through Nov. 14, 2003. 31 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Calendar Year Analysis: Free cash flow totaled $639 million in 2002. This was a more than threefold increase from 2001 free cash flow of $183 million. Though net income was lower in 2002 than in 2001, our operations generated almost twice as much cash in 2002. This improvement was primarily a result of careful management of our investments in trade receivables and inventories. Capital expenditures declined 41 percent from 2001 to 2002, as we completed a number of significant capital projects during 2001. Cash required by investing activities increased slightly, to $469 million, reflecting the $250 million investment of excess cash, partially offset by the lower capital expenditures and by proceeds from asset sales. In 2002, we received $72 million of proceeds from the disposal of property and investments. This amount included the sale of herbicide assets to Nissan. We also received approximately $50 million from the long term supply agreement with Nissan, which was included in cash flow from operations. Capital Resources and Liquidity Aug. 31, Dec. 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 Short term debt $ 269 $ 771 $ 393 $ 817 (1) Long term debt 1,258 1,148 851 893 Debt to capital ratio 23% 27% 19% 19% (1) Includes related party borrowings. A major source of our liquidity is operating cash flows, which are derived from net income. This cash generating capability provides us with the financial flexibility we need to meet operating, investing and financing needs. To the extent that cash provided by operations was not sufficient to fund our cash needs, generally during the first half of the calendar year, short term commercial paper borrowings were used to finance these requirements. Because of the seasonality of our business, our August 2003 debt to capital ratio was higher than it was in December 2002, but declined from year ago August levels. Our total debt outstanding at Aug. 31, 2003, declined from Aug. 31, 2002, reflecting the strength of our balance sheet. Although our contribution to Solutias 2003 PCB litigation settlement, voluntary pension contributions (discussed in more detail later in this section), and share repurchases are expected to materially affect our liquidity in the near term, our strong balance sheet and operations will allow us to meet these obligations without affecting our ability to operate and to meet our business objectives and capital requirements. Growth in the Seeds and Genomics segment will lessen the effect on liquidity caused by declining prices of Roundup. Even in the postpatent environment, Roundup continues to be a strong cash contributor. In May 2003, Monsanto issued $250 million of 4% Senior Notes (the 4% Notes) under a $2 billion shelf registration filed in May 2002. As of Aug. 31, 2003, we had $950 million available for future debt issuances under this shelf registration. We also have in place committed external borrowing facilities amounting to $1 billion that were unused as of Aug. 31, 2003. These credit facilities give us the financial flexibility to satisfy short and medium term funding requirements. One facility is a $500 million commitment that expires in 2005; the other $500 million, 364 day facility was renewed in July 2003 and was reduced in amount from $800 million. The amount of the 364 day facility was reduced because we expect to have less reliance on commercial paper compared with our needs in 2003. We are continuing to make voluntary cash contributions to our U.S. qualified pension plan. In addition to contributing amounts as required by pension plan regulation, we may also make discretionary contributions if merited. In light of the decline in interest rates and the adverse performance of the financial markets in recent years, we expected that contributions would not be required until after fiscal year 2004. Although contributions were not required, Monsanto contributed $111 million to the U.S. qualified plan during the transition period. We also anticipate using a portion of our cash flow in fiscal year 2004 to continue to voluntarily contribute to the pension plan in order to maintain future contribution flexibility allowed by regulations. We currently expect that our contributions during fiscal year 2004 will be in the range of $150 million. While the level of future contributions that would be required is unpredictable and depends heavily on plan asset experience and interest rates, we expect to continue to contribute to the plan on a regular basis in the near term. 32 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Contractual Obligations We have certain obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts; current estimates of our future payments under these obligations are shown in the table below. Payments Due in Fiscal Year Ending Aug. 31, 2009 and Total 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 beyond Long term debt $ 1,258 $ $ 201 $ 18 $ 1 $ 243 $ 795 Operating lease obligations 89 32 20 12 8 4 13 Purchase obligations: Uncompleted additions to property 10 10 Commitments to purchase inventories 393 258 35 33 25 18 24 Commitment to purchase breeding research 410 45 45 52 45 45 178 R&D alliances and joint venture obligations 272 63 62 58 52 37 Other purchase obligations 285 51 51 51 51 21 60 Other Liabilities reflected on the balance sheet: Payments on other financing 18 5 5 5 3 Total contractual obligations $ 2,735 $ 464 $ 419 $ 229 $ 185 $ 368 $ 1,070 Seasonality Our businesses are seasonal. Historically, we recorded our highest levels of sales and income in the first half of the calendar year. Our recent change in fiscal year end from December 31 to August 31 will synchronize our quarterly and annual results with the natural flow of the agricultural cycle in our major markets. As a result, investors will gain a more complete picture of the North American and Latin American growing seasons in the same fiscal year. Because of our recent business model changes in Latin America, sales from the predominant planting season in that region will be recognized in the first half of our fiscal year. However, overall, the majority of our sales and income will now be generated in the second half of the fiscal year, consistent with the purchasing and growing patterns in North America, our largest market. Sales and income may shift somewhat between quarters depending on growing conditions. As is the practice in our industry, we regularly extend credit to enable our customers to acquire crop protection products and seeds at the beginning of the growing season. Because of the seasonality of our business and the need to extend credit to customers, we use short term borrowings to finance working capital requirements. Our need for such financing will generally be the highest in the second half of the fiscal year and lowest in the first half of the fiscal year. However, we expect to have less reliance on commercial paper borrowings than we have in the past, which will reduce our peak in working capital investment. Our customer financing program is also expected to continue to reduce our reliance on commercial paper borrowings. OUTLOOK Focused Strategy Monsanto has established leadership in agricultural markets by applying advanced technology to develop high value products ahead of competitors, and by reinforcing strong brands and customer relationships. We continually improve our products to maintain market leadership and support near term performance. Our capabilities in biotechnology research are generating a rich product pipeline that is expected to drive long term growth. We believe that our focused approach to our business and the value we bring to our customers will allow us to maintain an industry leadership position in a highly competitive and difficult agricultural and economic environment. We have announced strategic actions that will allow us to focus on continued growth in our seeds and traits businesses, while ensuring that Roundup and our other herbicides continue to make strong contributions to cash flow and income. We are accelerating Monsantos evolution to a company led by its strengths in seeds and biotechnology traits as means of delivering solutions to our customers. As we concentrate our resources on this growth sector of the agricultural industry, we are taking steps to reduce SG&A costs particularly those associated with our agricultural chemistry business as that sector matures globally. Monsanto remains the leading manufacturer of the best selling herbicide and maintains a very strong manufacturing cost position. As part of this strategic initiative, we will focus on projects that we believe to have the best commercial potential. Our research and marketing will focus on three crops grown on significant acreage: corn, cotton and soybeans. We have announced plans to exit the European breeding and seed business for wheat and barley, but we will continue our work on Roundup Ready wheat, which is in the regulatory approval phase. We will also focus on our top agricultural markets, where we can bring together a broad complement of our products and technologies, while pursuing ways to best participate in other markets. We have accordingly adopted different business models for different markets. This approach has led to the outright sale of our chemical business in Japan and a partnership with Nufarm to manufacture and market Roundup in Australia and New Zealand. These actions allow us to reduce our exposure to risk from changes in the marketplace. 33 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Our financial strategy will continue to emphasize both earnings and cash, and we believe that Monsanto is positioned to sustain earnings growth and cash flow. We remain committed to returning cash to shareowners. We have begun to implement a new share repurchase program, under which we are authorized to purchase up to $500 million of our stock during the next three years. Our board of directors also authorized an increase to our dividend rate in 2003. During the transition period, we applied our strong cash position to participate in a settlement of Solutias PCB litigation and to make voluntary contributions to our pension plan. We have taken decisive steps to address key risks in our business position. These include the measures noted above, to reduce costs in our agricultural chemistry business and to accelerate the evolution to an emphasis on seeds and traits. We also took steps in 2002 to reduce risk and stabilize our business position in Latin America. We remain focused on cost and cash management both to maintain the progress we have made in managing our investment in working capital in particular, receivables and inventories and to realize the full earnings potential of our businesses. We will also continue to seek additional external financing opportunities for our customers. We increased our allowance for doubtful trade receivables in 2002 because of the economic turmoil and market conditions in Argentina throughout 2002. Although we cannot determine how government actions and economic conditions in Argentina will affect the value of the outstanding receivables, we continue to pursue customer collections aggressively. Managements current assessment of the situation is that the current allowance balance relating to Argentine receivables is adequate. The Brazilian real has also fluctuated considerably in past years, although recent improvements in the economic and political situation have reduced currency volatility. We proactively monitor the risk to anticipated Brazilian real denominated cash flows and manage that exposure as part of our overall foreign currency risk management process. Seeds and Genomics We invest more than 80 percent of our R&D in the areas of seeds, genomics and biotechnology. These are the fastest growing segments of the agriculture industry. By shifting our focus to create value for farmers in seeds and traits, we have set Monsanto on a path of sustainable growth, as we expect increasing gross profit from seeds and traits to more than offset a declining contribution from agricultural chemicals. This trend was evidenced in our 2003 financial results, as the gross profit contribution of our seeds and traits business surpassed that of our glyphosate business. Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides can be applied over the top of glyphosate tolerant Roundup Ready crops, controlling weeds without injury to the crop. This integration of agricultural chemicals and enhanced seeds offers growers a cost effective solution for weed control. To date, we have introduced Roundup Ready traits in soybeans, corn, canola and cotton. In addition, our insect protection seed traits, such as YieldGard for corn and Bollgard and Bollgard II for cotton, serve as alternatives to certain chemical pesticides. Key near term growth opportunities in seeds and traits include Continued growth in Monsantos branded and licensed seed market shares, through successful breeding of high performance germplasm and continuous improvement in the quality of our seeds; Continued growth in licensing of seed germplasm and biotechnology traits to other seed companies through our Holdens/ Corn States business and the newly established Cotton States business; and, Expansion of existing traits, especially in corn, and stacking of additional traits in current biotechnology products. At the same time, we expect to continue to reduce seed production costs through higher yields on seed production acres and careful management of our seed product portfolio. Monsanto has built a leading global position in seeds, and the successful integration of seed businesses acquired in the 1990s has allowed us to optimize our seed portfolio. We continue to make improvements in our base seed business, as advanced breeding techniques combined with production practices and plant capital investments have significantly improved germplasm quality, yields and cost. The performance of Monsanto germplasm is reflected in market share gains for both our branded and licensed seed businesses. We also use our genetic material to develop new varieties for other seed companies brands. Outstanding seed quality and leading germplasm provide a vehicle for introducing biotechnology seed traits, such as herbicide tolerance and insect protection. Biotechnology traits offer growers several benefits: Lower costs, greater convenience and flexibility, higher yields, and the ability to adopt environmentally responsible practices such as conservation tillage and reduced pesticide use. Our past successes provide a significant competitive advantage in delivering stacked trait products and improved, second generation traits. We can achieve continued growth through stacking and increased penetration of traits in approved markets. Trait stacking is a key growth driver in our seeds and traits business, because it allows Monsanto to earn a greater share of the farmers expenditures on each acre. Stacked trait cotton overtook single trait cotton products in Monsantos product mix in 2003. We are seeing the same trend in our corn seed business, where higher value, stacked trait products represent a growing share of total seed sales. We recently received U.S. approval for YieldGard Plus insect protected corn, designed to control both the corn borer and corn rootworm pests. Consistent with our Monsanto Pledge, we will launch YieldGard Plus when we have completed the appropriate regulatory process in both the 34 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K United States and Japan. YieldGard Plus technology is currently under review by the Japanese regulatory authorities. We are currently developing the first triple stack product, YieldGard Plus corn with Roundup Ready. Another source of growth in the near term is the commercialization of second generation traits, such as Bollgard II cotton. In addition to delivering new stacked trait products and second generation traits in the near term, we are working toward developing products to generate long term growth. Our strategic head start in first and second generation input traits gives us a leadership position in developing output traits that provide consumer benefits and create value for the food industry. We are working to achieve greater acceptance and to secure additional approvals for our existing biotechnology products globally, and toward the development and timely commercialization of additional products in our pipeline. We are prioritizing our efforts to gain approvals for biotechnology crops, and while we continue to gain new approvals in global markets, we are not adopting strategies that depend on government action. We are continuing our efforts to obtain approval for the planting of Roundup Ready soybeans in Brazil, and for the importation of corn that contains the Roundup Ready trait into Europe. We have committed to selling seed that will result in commercial commodity grain products only after we have earned regulatory approval for consumption by both humans and animals. Crop import restrictions in some key markets, most notably the European Union (EU), reduce potential expansion of current and future biotechnology crops in the United States and other markets where they are approved. The development of effective systems to enable farmers growing crops in the United States to sell into elevator systems that do not export to the EU, however, is mitigating the effect of these restrictions. We are committed to addressing concerns raised by consumers in some regions and by public interest groups and questions from government regulators regarding agricultural and food products developed through biotechnology. We also continue to address concerns about the adventitious or unintended trace presence of biotechnology materials in seed, grain or feed and food products. We are responding to the issue of adventitious presence in several ways. These include seeking sound, science based rules and regulations that clarify and allow for trace amounts, and providing industry leadership to establish the highest standards of purity reasonably achievable and to establish global standards for quality. We are also working with the seed industry to develop strategies on production interventions that may reduce the likelihood of adventitious presence. Agricultural Productivity Reduced revenues and earnings from Roundup herbicide reflect both the overall decline in the agricultural chemicals market and the expiration of U.S. patent protection for the active ingredient in Roundup in 2000. By aligning our infrastructure and costs with our expectations for the glyphosate herbicide market, however, we believe the Roundup franchise can continue to be a significant and sustainable source of cash and income generation for Monsanto, even in the face of increased competition. As expected, the market share and price of Roundup in the United States have declined since the patent expired in 2000. We expect these trends to continue until we reach steady state postpatent levels. In postpatent markets around the world, Roundup has maintained a leading market position and a price premium compared with generics. We will continue to support the market leadership of Roundup with product innovations, superior customer service and logistics, low cost manufacturing, and further expansion of Roundup Ready crops and conservation tillage. We have several patents on our glyphosate formulations and manufacturing processes in the United States and in other countries. We continue to differentiate Roundup with innovations using proprietary technology. We also provide more concentrated formulations that provide greater convenience for farmers while reducing production and logistics costs. We offer a variety of products to meet farmers needs. The U.S. launch of premium Roundup WeatherMAX was followed by introduction of Roundup Original MAX, which offers key brand advantages at a lower price, for the 2004 growing season. Monsanto will support Roundup through expansion of Roundup Ready crops and promotion of conservation tillage. Conservation tillage helps farmers reduce soil erosion by replacing plowing with the judicious use of herbicides to control weeds. Further penetration of Roundup Ready crops also enhances the market position of Roundup as a brand name product that farmers trust to avoid the risk of crop injury in over the top use on these crops. Monsanto maintains strong distribution relationships and a unique bulk tank system to support retailers. Monsanto remains the primary global producer of glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup, with agreements to supply glyphosate to many of our competitors. Our high volume allows us to maintain low unit costs. We continue to reduce production costs, and we are also achieving reductions in working capital through careful management of inventories. In recent years, distribution channel inventories had increased significantly in the United States. However, Roundup distribution inventory levels at the end of calendar year 2002 were roughly flat with levels at 2001 calendar year end, and declined during the transition period. We expect these levels to be flat to down in the near term. Like most chemical herbicides, Monsantos selective herbicides face declining markets and increasing competitive pressures, but they continue to complement our ability to offer fully integrated solutions, particularly in corn. While rapid penetration of Roundup Ready corn in the United States has also had a negative effect on sales of Monsanto selective corn herbicides, increased revenues from the 35 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Roundup Ready trait and the Roundup used on these acres are significantly higher than the lost selective herbicide sales. Our lawn and garden herbicide business remains a strong cash generator and supports Monsantos brand equity in the marketplace. Another key product in our Agricultural Productivity segment is Posilac bovine somatotropin, which promotes dairy cow productivity. Posilac provides a steady contribution to gross profit. New product formulations and more efficient manufacturing capacity support the growth of Posilac. The new bulk powder facility for Posilac, approved in 2003 for production by the U.S. FDA, will allow us to supply anticipated growth in the market. Other Information As discussed in Note 22 Commitments and Contingencies, Monsanto is involved in a number of lawsuits and claims relating to a variety of issues. Many of these lawsuits relate to intellectual property disputes. We expect that such disputes will continue to occur as the agricultural biotechnology industry evolves. As further discussed in Note 22, under our Separation Agreement with Pharmacia, we were required to indemnify Pharmacia for liabilities that Solutia assumed from Pharmacia in connection with the spinoff of Solutia on Sept. 1, 1997, to the extent that Solutia fails to pay, perform or discharge those liabilities. Note 22 includes further information regarding Solutia, and the possibility of a material adverse effect on our financial position, profitability and or liquidity. For additional information on the outlook for Monsanto, see Cautionary Statements: Risk Factors Regarding Forward Looking Information. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our financial statements, we must select and apply various accounting policies. Our most significant policies are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements. In order to apply our accounting policies, we often need to make estimates based on judgments about future events. In making such estimates, we rely on historical experience, market and other conditions, and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. However, the estimation process is by its nature uncertain given that estimates depend on events over which we may not have control. If market and other conditions change from those that we anticipate, our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity may be affected materially. In addition, if our assumptions change, we may need to revise our estimates, or to take other corrective actions, either of which may also have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Members of our senior management have discussed the development and selection of our critical accounting estimates, and our disclosure regarding them, with the audit and finance committee of our board of directors, and do so on a regular basis. We believe that the following estimates have a higher degree of inherent uncertainty and require our most significant judgments. In addition, had we used estimates different from any of these, our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity for the current period could have been materially different from those presented. Allowance for Doubtful Trade Receivables: We maintain an allowance for doubtful trade receivables. This allowance represents our estimate of accounts receivable that, subsequent to the time of sale, we have estimated to be of doubtful collectibility because our customers may not be able to pay. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider historical bad debt experience, customer creditworthiness, market conditions, and economic conditions. We perform ongoing evaluations of our allowance for doubtful accounts, and we increase the allowance as required. Increases in this allowance will reduce the recorded amount of our net trade receivables and shareowners equity, and increase our bad debt expense. For example, in June 2002 we increased our allowance for estimated uncollectible trade receivables in Argentina by $154 million. This increase in the allowance was required because of the economic turmoil and market conditions there. Allowances for Returns and Inventory Obsolescence: Where the right of return exists in our seed business, sales revenues are reduced at the time of sale to reflect expected returns. In order to estimate the expected returns, management analyzes historical returns, economic trends, market conditions, and changes in customer demand. In addition, we establish allowances for obsolescence of inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value, based on assumptions about future demand and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the adequacy of our return allowances and inventory obsolescence reserves. If economic and market conditions are different from those we anticipated, actual returns and inventory obsolescence could be materially different from the amounts provided for in our consolidated financial statements. If seed returns are higher than anticipated, our net sales, net trade receivables and shareowners equity for future periods will be reduced. If inventory obsolescence is higher than expected, our cost of goods sold will be increased, and our inventory valuations and shareowners equity reduced. Higher than anticipated seed returns have recently affected our results of operations and financial condition. In calendar year 2002, results were affected by higher than anticipated seed returns (primarily corn seed) in Argentina because of the economic crisis that originated at the end of 2001 and the flooding in that same year. In 2001, we experienced higher than anticipated returns of high priced corn seed, primarily in Brazil because of an extremely unusual change in market conditions there. 36 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Deferred Income Tax Assets: Management regularly assesses the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent management believes that it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established. When a valuation allowance is established or increased, an income tax charge is included in the consolidated financial statements and net deferred tax assets are adjusted accordingly. As of Aug. 31, 2003, Monsanto has recorded a valuation allowance totaling $90 million against Brazilian loss carryforwards, an increase of $14 million from Dec. 31, 2002. This increase is a result of foreign currency fluctuations. Changes in tax laws, statutory tax rates, and estimates of the companys future taxable income levels could result in actual realization of the deferred tax assets being materially different from the amounts provided for in the consolidated financial statements. If the actual recovery amount of the deferred tax asset is less than anticipated, we would be required to write off the remaining deferred tax asset and increase the tax provision, resulting in a reduction of net income and shareowners equity. Goodwill: A majority of our goodwill relates to our seed company acquisitions. We are required to assess whether any of our goodwill is impaired. In order to do this, we apply judgment in determining our reporting units, which represent distinct parts of our business. The definition of our reporting units affects the results of our goodwill impairment analysis. Our annual goodwill impairment assessment involves estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and comparing it with its carrying amount. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, additional steps are required to calculate a potential impairment loss. Calculating the fair value of the reporting units requires significant estimates and long term assumptions. Any changes in key assumptions about the business and its prospects, or any changes in market conditions, interest rates or other externalities, could result in an impairment charge. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units by applying discounted cash flow methodologies. In connection with the adoption of SFAS 142 in 2002, we recorded a $2 billion pretax transitional impairment charge relating to our corn and wheat reporting units. This charge reduced the carrying amount of our goodwill, and it resulted in a cumulative effect of accounting change, which reduced net income and shareowners equity. Future changes in the fair value of our reporting units could affect our goodwill and operating expenses and reduce shareowners equity. As discussed in Restructuring and Other Special Items, our October 2003 decision to exit our European wheat and barley business required us to reevaluate our global wheat business for potential goodwill impairment. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits: The actuarial valuation of our pension and other postretirement benefit costs, assets and obligations affects our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. These valuations require the use of assumptions and long range estimates. These assumptions include, among others: assumptions regarding interest and discount rates, assumed long term rates of return on pension plan assets, and projected rates of salary increases. We regularly evaluate these assumptions and estimates as new information becomes available. Changes in assumptions (caused by conditions in the debt and equity markets, changes in asset mix, and plan experience, for example) could have a material effect on our pension obligations and expenses, and can affect our net income, intangible assets, liabilities, and shareowners equity. In addition, changes in assumptions such as rates of return, fixed income rates used to value liabilities or declines in the fair value of plan assets, may result in voluntary decisions or mandatory requirements to make additional contributions to our qualified pension plan. Because of the design of our postretirement health care plans, our liabilities associated with these plans are not highly sensitive to assumptions regarding health care cost trends. Because of the decline in the equity markets in recent years, the fair value of assets in the Monsanto U.S. qualified pension plan decreased in 2002. As a result, along with the effect of declining interest rates, we recorded additional minimum pension liability adjustments totaling $330 million during calendar year 2002. Although the equity markets have improved during the transition period, interest rates have continued to decline. As a result, we recorded a $106 million increase to the additional minimum pension liability in our financial statements for the eight month period ended Aug. 31, 2003. This adjustment was necessary to keep the recorded pension liability at least equal to the unfunded accumulated benefit obligation for the plan. These noncash adjustments decreased shareowners equity, but did not affect our results of operations. We anticipate that our pension expenses will continue to increase in 2004, which will reduce our net income. We recently reduced the discount rate for our pension plan from 6.75 percent to 6.25 percent to reflect market interest conditions and payout experience. In determining the discount rate, we use the yield on high quality fixed income investments (including among other things, Moodys Aa corporate bond yields) that match the average duration of the pension obligations. To the extent the discount rate increases or decreases, our pension obligation is decreased or increased accordingly. Holding all other assumptions constant, we estimate that this one half percent decrease in the expected discount rate will decrease our fiscal year 2004 pretax income by approximately $4 million. We also recently reduced our salary rate assumption by one half percent. This lower salary assumption will partially offset the pretax earnings effect of the lower assumed discount rate. Expected rate of return on pension assets is also an important element of plan expense. In 2002, we reduced the rate of return on pension plan assets to 8.75 percent. To determine the rate of return, we consider the historical 37 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K experience and expected future performance of the plan assets, as well as the current and expected allocation of the plan assets. The U.S. qualified pension plans asset allocation as of Aug. 31, 2003, was approximately 60 percent equity investments, 35 percent fixed income investments and 5 percent other investments, in line with policy ranges. We periodically evaluate the allocation of plan assets among the different investment classes to ensure that they are within policy guidelines and ranges. While we do not currently expect to further reduce the assumed rate of return in the near term, holding all other assumptions constant, we estimate that a half percent decrease in the expected return on plan assets would lower Monsantos fiscal year 2004 pretax income by approximately $5 million. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Monsanto adopted SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, on Jan. 1, 2003. SFAS 143 addresses financial accounting for and reporting of costs and obligations associated with legal obligations related to the retirement of tangible long lived assets. Upon adoption of this standard, in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, we recorded an aftertax cumulative effect of accounting change of $12 million, or $0.05 per share. This noncash charge was recorded as of Jan. 1, 2003. In addition, as required by SFAS 143, as of Jan. 1, 2003, net property, plant and equipment was increased by approximately $10 million, and asset retirement obligations (a component of noncurrent liabilities) of approximately $30 million were recorded. Adoption of this standard did not affect Monsantos liquidity. In 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS 146 replaced Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). SFAS 146 requires companies to recognize costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date the company commits itself to an exit or disposal plan. This statement is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after Dec. 31, 2002. The adoption of SFAS 146 had no effect on our 2000 and 2002 restructuring plans, which were both initiated prior to Dec. 31, 2002. We will follow SFAS 146 to recognize the costs associated with the strategic actions announced in October 2003. In April 2003, SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, was issued. SFAS 149 amends and clarifies accounting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities under SFAS 133. SFAS 149 is generally effective for contracts entered into or modified and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003. The adoption of SFAS 149 did not have a material effect on our financial position, profitability or liquidity. CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS: RISK FACTORS REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS In this report, and from time to time throughout the year, we share our expectations for our companys future performance. These forward looking statements represent our best estimates and expectations at the time that we make those statements. However, by their nature, these types of statements are uncertain and are not guarantees of our future performance. Many events beyond our control will determine whether our expectations will be realized. In the interests of our investors, and in accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the U.S Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, this section of our report explains some of the important reasons that actual results may be materially different from those that we anticipate. Our forward looking statements include statements about: our business plans; the potential development, regulatory approval, and public acceptance of our products; our expected financial performance and the anticipated effect of our strategic actions; domestic or international economic, political and market conditions; and other factors that could affect our future operations or financial position. Any statements we make that are not matters of current reportage or historical fact should be considered forward looking. Such statements often include words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, will, and similar expressions. Our forward looking statements are current only as of the date of this report. Circumstances change constantly, often unpredictably, and investors should not place undue reliance on these statements. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward looking statements, or the factors that may affect their realization, whether in light of new information, future events or otherwise, and investors should not rely on us to do so. Competition for Roundup Herbicides: We expect to face continued competition for our branded Roundup herbicide product line. The extent to which we can realize cash and gross profit from these products will depend on our ability to predict and respond effectively to competitor pricing, to provide marketing programs meeting the needs of our customers and of the farmers who are our end users, to maintain an efficient distribution system, to control manufacturing and marketing costs without adversely affecting sales, and to develop new formulations with features attractive to our end users. Regulation and Public Acceptance of Seed Biotechnology: Regulatory and legislative requirements affect the testing and planting of seeds containing our biotechnology traits, and the import of crops grown from those seeds. Obtaining testing, planting and import approvals can be lengthy and costly, with no guarantee of success. Planting approvals may also include significant regulatory requirements that can limit our sales. 38 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Lack of approval to import crops containing biotechnology traits into key markets affects sales of our traits, even in jurisdictions where planting has been approved. Legislation or regulation may also require the tracking of biotechnology products and the labeling of food or feed products with ingredients grown from seeds containing biotechnology traits. Such traceability and labeling requirements may cause food processors and food companies to avoid biotechnology and select non biotechnology crop sources, which can affect grower seed purchase decisions and the sale of our products. Some opponents of the technology publicly express concern about potential effects of our biotechnology traits on other plants and on the environment, and about potential effects of crops containing these traits on animals and human health. Such concerns can affect government approvals and may adversely affect sales of our traits, even after approvals are granted. In addition, violent opponents of agricultural biotechnology have attacked facilities used by agricultural biotechnology companies, and may launch future violent attacks against our field testing sites, research, production, or other facilities. Adventitious Presence of Biotechnology Traits: The detection of unintended but unavoidable trace amounts (sometimes called adventitious presence) of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional (non biotechnology) seed, or in the grain or products produced from seeds containing these traits, may negatively affect our business or results of operations. The detection of adventitious presence of traits not approved in the country where detected may result in the withdrawal of seed lots from sale, or in compliance actions such as crop destruction or product recalls. Some growers of organic and conventional crops have claimed that the adventitious presence of any biotechnology traits in their crops will cause them commercial harm. The potential for adventitious presence of biotechnology traits is a factor in general public acceptance of these traits. Concern about adventitious presence may also lead to more stringent regulation, which may include: requirements for labeling and traceability; financial protection such as surety bonds, liability or insurance; and or restrictions or moratoria on testing, planting or use of biotechnology traits. Regulation and Legislation Affecting Agricultural Products: In addition to regulation and legislation specifically affecting our seed biotechnology products, agricultural products and their manufacturers are subject to other government regulation, which affects our sales and profitability. These regulations affect the development, manufacture and distribution of our products, and non compliance could affect our sales and profitability. Farm legislation encouraging or discouraging the planting of specific crops can affect our sales. In addition, claims that increased use of glyphosate herbicides increases the potential for the development of glyphosate resistant weeds could result in restrictions on the use of glyphosate and of seeds containing our Roundup Ready traits, and thereby reduce our sales. Intellectual Property: Intellectual property rights are crucial to our business, and we endeavor to obtain and protect these rights in jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used, and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported. Intellectual property rights are particularly important with respect to our seeds and genomics segment. However, we may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Even if protection is obtained, competitors, growers, or others in the chain of commerce may illegally infringe on our rights, and such infringement may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, the practice of saving seeds from non hybrid crops (including, for example, soybeans, canola and cotton) containing our biotechnology may prevent us from realizing the full value of our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States. We must also protect our intellectual property against legal challenges by competitors. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights against infringement and legal challenges can increase our costs, and will not always succeed. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products. Because of the rapid pace of change and the complexity of the legal and factual issues involved, we could unknowingly rely on key technologies that are or become patent protected by others, which would require that we seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. Research and Development: The continued development and commercialization of pipeline products is key to our growth. The ability to develop and bring new products to market, especially agricultural biotechnology products, requires adequately funded, efficient and successful research and development programs. Inadequate availability of funds, failure to focus R&D efforts efficiently, or lack of productivity in R&D, would hurt our future growth. Competition in Plant Biotechnology: Many companies engage in plant biotechnology research. Their success could render our existing products less competitive. In addition, a companys speed in getting its new product to market can be a significant competitive advantage. We expect to see more competition, from agricultural biotechnology firms and from major agrichemical, seed and food companies, some of which have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Weather, Natural Disasters and Accidents: Our sales and profitability are subject to significant risk from weather conditions and natural disasters that affect commodity prices, seed yields, and grower decisions about purchases of our products. Natural disasters or industrial accidents could also affect our own manufacturing facilities, our major suppliers, or our major customers. 39 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K Manufacturing: Because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our product development programs and manufacturing processes, we are subject to risks of accidental environmental contamination, personal injury claims and fines. We are also subject to regulation of air emissions, waste water discharges and solid waste. Compliance may be costly, and failure to comply may result in penalties and remediation obligations. In addition, lapses in quality control could affect our sales and result in claims for defective products. Short Term Financing: We regularly extend credit to our customers in certain areas of the world so that they can buy agricultural products at the beginning of their growing seasons. Because of these credit practices and the seasonality of our sales, we may need to issue short term debt at certain times of the year to fund our cash flow requirements. The amount of short term debt will be greater to the extent that we are unable to collect customer receivables when due, to repatriate funds from ex U.S. operations, and to manage our costs and expenses. Any downgrade in our credit rating, or other limitation on our access to short term financing or refinancing, would increase our interest cost and adversely affect our profitability. Litigation and Contingencies: We are involved in major lawsuits concerning contracts, intellectual property, biotechnology, antitrust allegations, and other matters. Adverse outcomes could subject us to substantial damages or limit our ability to sell our products. In addition, in connection with the separation of our businesses from those of Pharmacia on Sept. 1, 2000, we were required to indemnify Pharmacia for liabilities that Solutia had assumed from Pharmacia in connection with the spinoff of Solutia on Sept. 1, 1997, to the extent that Solutia fails to pay, perform or discharge those liabilities. Additional information about our risks related to Solutia may be found in other sections of this report. Product Distribution: To market our products successfully, we must estimate growers future needs, and match our production and the level of product at our distributors to those needs. However, growers decisions are affected by market and economic conditions that are not known in advance. Failure to provide distributors with enough inventory of our products will reduce our current sales. However, high product inventory levels at our distributors may reduce sales in future periods, as those distributor inventories are worked down. Large distributor inventories also diminish our ability to react to changes in the market, and increase the risk of obsolescence and seed returns. In addition, inadequate distributor liquidity could affect distributors ability to pay for our products. Cost Management: We have recently announced strategic initiatives that include cost reductions in our Roundup business. Inability to implement these cost reductions while maintaining sales, or unanticipated increases in our costs, could reduce our profitability. Commodity Prices: Fluctuations in commodity prices can affect our costs and our sales. We purchase our seed inventories from production growers at market prices, and retain the seed in inventory until it is sold. We use hedging strategies to mitigate the risk of changes in these prices. In addition, the prices of our seeds and traits could be affected by commodity prices. Farmers income, and therefore their ability to purchase our herbicides, seeds and traits, is also affected by commodity prices. Accounting Policies and Estimates: Changes to our accounting policies could affect future results. In addition, changes to generally accepted accounting principles could require adjustments to financial statements for prior periods and changes to our policies for future periods. In addition, if actual experience differs from the estimates, judgments and assumptions that we used in order to prepare our financial statements, adjustments will need to be made in future periods, which may affect revenues and profitability. Finally, changes in our business practices may result in changes to the way we account for transactions, and may affect comparability between periods. Operations Outside the United States: Sales outside the United States represent more than 40 percent of our revenues. In addition, we engage in manufacturing, seed production, sales, and or research and development in many parts of the world. Although we have operations in virtually every region, our ex U.S. sales are principally to external customers in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France and Mexico. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world generally have a more significant effect on our operations than developments in other places. Operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and limitations, including: fluctuations in currency values and foreign currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Acts of terror or war may impair our ability to operate in particular countries or regions, and may impede the flow of goods and services between countries. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or we may be unable to collect receivables; and imported products could become more expensive for customers to purchase in their local currency. Changes in exchange rates may affect our earnings, the book value of our assets outside the United States, and our equity. 40 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are exposed to the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in commodity and equity prices. Market risk represents the risk of a change in the value of a financial instrument, derivative or nonderivative, caused by fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and commodity and equity prices. Monsanto handles market risk in accordance with established policies by engaging in various derivative transactions. Such transactions are not entered into for trading purposes. See Notes 2 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further details regarding the accounting and disclosure of our derivative instruments and hedging activities. The sensitivity analysis discussed below presents the hypothetical change in fair value of those financial instruments held by the company as of Aug. 31, 2003, that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and commodity and equity prices. Actual changes may prove to be greater or less than those hypothesized. Changes in Interest Rates: Because the companys short and long term debt exceeds cash and investments, Monsantos interest rate risk exposure pertains primarily to the debt portfolio. To the extent that we have cash available for investment to ensure liquidity, we will invest that cash only in short term instruments. The majority of our debt as of Aug. 31, 2003, consisted of fixed rate, long term obligations. Market risk with respect to interest rates is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from an immediate hypothetical one percentage point parallel shift in the yield curve. The fair values of the companys investments and loans are based on quoted market prices or discounted future cash flows. We currently hold debt and investments that mature in less than 360 days, and variable rate medium term notes. As the carrying amounts on short term loans and investments maturing in less than 360 days and the carrying amounts of variable rate medium term notes approximate their respective fair values, a one percentage point change in the interest rates would not result in a material change in the fair value of our debt and investments portfolio. On Aug. 14, 2002, Monsanto issued $600 million of 7 3/8% Senior Notes (the 7 3/8% notes) under our shelf registration. The aggregate principal amount of the outstanding notes was later increased to $800 million. In May 2003, Monsanto issued $250 million of 4% notes, also under this shelf registration. These notes were subsequently swapped to six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus a spread of 39 basis points. As of Aug. 31, 2003, the fair value of the 7 3/8% notes was $898 million, and the fair value of the 4% notes (including the effect of the swap) was $244 million. A one percentage point change in the interest rates would change the fair value of the 7 3/8% notes by approximately $61 million, and the 4% notes by $11 million. Foreign Currency Fluctuations: In managing foreign currency risk, Monsanto focuses on reducing the volatility in consolidated cash flow and earnings caused by fluctuations in exchange rates. We use foreign currency forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options to manage the net currency exposure, in accordance with established hedging policies. Monsanto hedges recorded commercial transaction exposures, intercompany loans, net investments in foreign subsidiaries, and forecasted transactions. The companys significant hedged positions included the Argentine peso, the euro, Canadian dollar, the Brazilian real, and the South African rand. Unfavorable currency movements of 10 percent would negatively affect the fair market values of the derivatives held to hedge currency exposures by $60 million. Changes in Commodity Prices: Monsanto uses futures contracts to protect itself against commodity price increases, mainly in the Seeds and Genomics segment. The majority of these contracts hedge the committed or future purchases of, and the carrying value of payables to growers for, soybean and corn inventories. A 10 percent decrease in the prices would have a negative effect on the fair value of those futures of less than $2 million for soybeans and less than $4 million for corn. We also use natural gas swaps to manage energy input costs. A 10 percent decrease in price of gas would have a negative effect on the fair value of the swaps of $1 million. Changes in Equity Prices: The company also has investments in equity securities. All such investments are classified as long term available for sale investments. The fair market value of these investments is $51 million. These securities are listed on a stock exchange or quoted in an over the counter market. If the market price of the traded securities should decrease by 10 percent, the fair value of the equities would decrease by $5 million. See Note 10 Investments for further details. 41 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2003 FORM 10 K 
 
