ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Background Monsanto Company, along with its subsidiaries, is a global provider of agricultural products for farmers. We produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB, Asgrow, Seminis and Stoneville, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. We also manufacture Roundup brand herbicides and other herbicides. Our seeds, biotechnology trait products and herbicides provide growers with solutions that improve productivity, reduce the costs of farming, and produce healthier foods for consumers and better feed for animals. We also provide lawn and garden herbicide products for the residential market and animal agricultural products focused on improving dairy cow productivity and swine genetics. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics, and Agricultural Productivity. The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and traits businesses, and genetic technology platforms. The Agricultural Productivity segment consists of our crop protection products (Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides and selective chemistries), animal agriculture businesses and lawn and garden herbicide products. More than 47 percent of our total company sales, 37 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segment sales, and 57 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segment sales were made outside the United States during fiscal year 2005. In second quarter 2005, we committed to a plan to sell the environmental technologies businesses, and in fourth quarter 2005, we sold substantially all of these businesses. In fiscal year 2004, we announced plans to exit the European breeding and seed business for wheat and barley and to discontinue the plant made pharmaceuticals program, and we sold the assets associated with our European wheat and barley business. As a result of these exit plans, financial data for these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations as outlined below. See Item 8 Note 28 Discontinued Operations for further details. The financial statements have been recast and prepared in compliance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144). Accordingly, for fiscal years 2005 and 2004, the eight months ended Aug. 31, 2003, and calendar year 2002, the Statement of Consolidated Operations has been conformed to this presentation. Also, as of Aug. 31, 2005, the Statement of Consolidated Financial Position has been conformed to this presentation. The European wheat and barley business and the plant made pharmaceuticals program were previously reported as part of the Seeds and Genomics segment, and the environmental technologies businesses were previously reported as part of the Agricultural Productivity segment. MDA should be read in conjunction with Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements referred to throughout this MDA are included in Part II 
 
