ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Background Monsanto Company, along with its subsidiaries, is a leading global provider of agricultural products for farmers. Our seeds, biotechnology trait products, and herbicides provide farmers with solutions that improve productivity, reduce the costs of farming, and produce better foods for consumers and better feed for animals. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics and Agricultural Productivity. Through our Seeds and Genomics segment, we produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB, Asgrow, Seminis and Stoneville, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We also provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. Through our Agricultural Productivity segment, we manufacture Roundup brand herbicides and other herbicides and provide lawn and garden herbicide products for the residential market and animal agricultural products focused on improving dairy cow productivity and swine genetics. Approximately 43 percent of our total company sales, 37 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segment sales, and 50 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segment sales originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2006. In second quarter 2005, we committed to a plan to sell the environmental technologies businesses, and in fourth quarter 2005, we sold substantially all of these businesses. In 2004, we sold our European breeding and seed business for wheat and barley. We also discontinued the plant made pharmaceuticals program. As a result, financial data for these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations as outlined below. See Item 8 Note 27 Discontinued Operations for further details. The financial statements have been recast and prepared in compliance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144). Accordingly, for 2006, 2005, and 2004, the Statements of Consolidated Operations have been conformed to this presentation. Also, under the guidance of SFAS 144, the remaining assets and liabilities of the environmental technologies businesses have been separately presented on the Statements of Consolidated Financial Position as of Aug. 31, 2006, and Aug. 31, 2005. The European wheat and barley business and the plant made pharmaceuticals program were previously reported as part of the Seeds and Genomics segment, and the environmental technologies businesses were previously reported as part of the Agricultural Productivity segment. MDA should be read in conjunction with Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements referred to throughout this MDA are included in Part II 
 
