ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Background Monsanto Company, along with its subsidiaries, is a leading global provider of agricultural products for farmers. Our seeds, biotechnology trait products, and herbicides provide farmers with solutions that improve productivity, reduce the costs of farming, and produce better foods for consumers and better feed for animals. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics, and Agricultural Productivity. Through our Seeds and Genomics segment, we produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB, Asgrow, DPL, Deltapine and Seminis, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We also provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. Through our Agricultural Productivity segment, we manufacture Roundup brand herbicides and other herbicides and provide lawn and garden herbicide products for the residential market and animal agricultural products focused on improving dairy cow productivity. Approximately 43 percent of our total company sales, 36 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segment sales, and 54 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segment sales originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we sold our U.S. Stoneville and NexGen cotton seed brands and related business assets (divested cotton businesses) as part of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) approval for the acquisition of Delta and Pine Land Company (DPL). In 2005, we sold substantially all of our environmental technologies businesses. As a result, financial data for these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations. The financial statements have been recast and prepared in compliance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144). Accordingly, for 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Statements of Consolidated Operations have been conformed to this presentation. The divested cotton businesses were previously reported as part of the Seeds and Genomics segment. The environmental technologies businesses were previously reported as part of the Agricultural Productivity segment. See Note 26 Discontinued Operations for further details. This MDA should be read in conjunction with Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements referred to throughout this MDA are included in Part II 
 
