Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Part II, Item 8. Restated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data; Part II, Item 9A. Controls and Procedures; and Part IV Item 15B. Exhibits In accordance with applicable SEC rules, this Amended Filing includes certifications from our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer dated as of the date of this filing. The remaining Items contained within this Amended Filing consist of all other Items originally contained in the Form 10 K and are included for the convenience of the reader. The sections of the Form 10 K which were not amended are unchanged and continue in full force and effect as originally filed. This Amended Filing speaks as of the date of the Original Filing on the Form 10 K, and has not been updated to reflect events occurring subsequent to the Original Filing date other than those associated with the internal investigation, the resulting restatement of Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the reorganization of certain operating segments as reported in the Form 8 K filed on April 8, 2011. 5 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Monsanto Company, along with its subsidiaries, is a leading global provider of agricultural products for farmers. Our seeds, biotechnology trait products, and herbicides provide farmers with solutions that improve productivity, reduce the costs of farming, and produce better foods for consumers and better feed for animals. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics and Agricultural Productivity. We view our Seeds and Genomics segment as the driver for future growth for our company. Our Agricultural Productivity segment has encountered significant change in the glyphosate industry as numerous major global manufacturing competitors have increased production at the same time that there has been an increase in the number of distributors packaging and selling generic glyphosate sourced from these suppliers. The growth in supply and sellers has added to the competitiveness and margin erosion in the glyphosate industry and in certain regions has increased the channel inventory. We provide information about our business, including analyses, significant news releases, and other supplemental information, on our Web site: www.monsanto.com. In addition, we make available through our Web site, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed with respect to our equity securities under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act are also available on our site by the end of the business day after filing. All of these materials can be found under the Investors tab. Our Web site also includes the following corporate governance materials, under the tab Corporate Responsibility: our Code of Business Conduct, our Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers, our Board of Directors Charter and Corporate Governance Guidelines, and charters of our Board committees. These materials are also available on paper. Any shareowner may request them by contacting the Office of the General Counsel, Monsanto Company, 800 N. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, Missouri, 63167. Information on our Web site does not constitute part of this report. A description of our business follows. SEEDS AND GENOMICS SEGMENT Through our Seeds and Genomics segment, we produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB, Asgrow, Deltapine, Seminis, and De Ruiter and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We also provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) Seeds and Genomics Segment the tabular information about net sales of our seeds and traits, is incorporated herein by reference. Major Products Applications Major Brands Germplasm Row crop seeds: Corn hybrids and foundation seed Soybean varieties and foundation seed Cotton varieties, hybrids and foundation seed Other row crop varieties and hybrids, such as canola Vegetable seeds: Open field and protected culture seed for tomato, pepper, eggplant, melon, cucumber, pumpkin, squash, beans, broccoli, onions, and lettuce, among others DEKALB, Channel Bio for corn Asgrow for soybeans Deltapine for cotton Seminis and De Ruiter for vegetable seeds Biotechnology traits(1) Enable crops to protect themselves from borers and rootworm in corn and leaf and boll feeding worms in cotton, reducing the need for applications of insecticides SmartStax, YieldGard, YieldGard VT Triple, VT TriplePRO and VT Double PRO for corn Bollgard and Bollgard II for cotton Enable crops, such as corn, soybeans, cotton, and canola to be tolerant of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides Roundup Ready and Roundup Ready 2 Yield(soybeans only) Genuity, global umbrella trait brand (1) Monsanto also offers farmers stacked trait products, which are single seed products in which two or more traits are combined. 6 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Distribution of Products We have a worldwide distribution and sales and marketing organization for our seeds and traits. We sell our products under Monsanto brands and license technology and genetic material to others for sale under their own brands. Through distributors, independent retailers and dealers, agricultural cooperatives, plant raisers, and agents, we market our DEKALB, Asgrow and Deltapine branded germplasm to farmers in every agricultural region of the world. In the United States, we market regional seed brands under our American Seeds, LLC and Channel Bio, LLC businesses to farmers directly, as well as through dealers, agricultural cooperatives and agents. In countries where they are approved for sale, we market and sell our trait technologies with our branded germplasm, pursuant to license agreements with our farmer customers. In Brazil and Paraguay, we have implemented a point of delivery, grain based payment system. We contract with grain handlers to collect applicable trait fees when farmers deliver their grain. In addition to selling our products under our own brands, we license a broad package of germplasm and trait technologies to large and small seed companies in the United States and certain international markets. Those seed companies in turn market our trait technologies in their branded germplasm; they may also market our germplasm under their own brand name. Our vegetable seeds are marketed in more than 100 countries through distributors, independent retailers and dealers, agricultural cooperatives, plant raisers and agents, as well as directly to farmers. Competition The global market for the products of our Seeds and Genomics segment is competitive and the competition has intensified. Both our row crops and our vegetable seed businesses compete with numerous multinational agrichemical and seed marketers globally and with hundreds of smaller companies regionally. With the exception of competitors in our Seminis and De Ruiter vegetable seed business, most of our seed competitors are also licensees of our germplasm or biotechnology traits. In certain countries, we also compete with government owned seed companies. Our biotechnology traits compete as a system with other practices, including the application of agricultural chemicals, and traits developed by other companies. Our weed and insect control systems compete with chemical and seed products produced by other agrichemical and seed marketers. Competition for the discovery of new traits based on biotechnology or genomics is likely to come from major global agrichemical companies, smaller biotechnology research companies and institutions, state funded programs, and academic institutions. Enabling technologies to enhance biotechnology trait development may also come from academic researchers and biotechnology research companies. Competitors using our technology outside of license terms and farmers who save seed from one year to the next (in violation of license or other commercial terms) also affect competitive conditions. Product performance (in particular, crop vigor and yield for our row crops and quality for our vegetable seeds), customer support and service, intellectual property rights and protection, product availability and planning, and price are important elements of our market success in seeds. In addition, distributor, retailer and farmer relationships are important in the United States and many other countries. The primary factors underlying the competitive success of traits are performance and commercial viability; timeliness of introduction; value compared with other practices and products; market coverage; service provided to distributors, retailers and farmers; governmental approvals; value capture; public acceptance; and environmental characteristics. Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses In the United States and many foreign countries, Monsanto holds a broad business portfolio of patents, trademarks and licenses that provide intellectual property protection for its seeds and genomics related products and processes. Monsanto routinely obtains patents and or plant variety protection for its breeding technology, commercial varietal seed products, and for the parents of its commercial hybrid seed products. Monsanto also routinely obtains registrations for its commercial seed products in registration countries, as well as Plant Variety Protection Act Certificates in the United States and equivalent plant breeders rights in other countries. Monsantos insect protection traits (including YieldGard Corn Borer in corn seed and Bollgard trait in cotton seed) are protected by patents in various countries that extend at least until 2011, and YieldGard Corn Rootworm traits extend at least until 2018. Having filed patent applications in 2001 and 2002, Monsanto anticipates that the Bollgard II product will be patent protected in the United States, and in other areas in which patent protection was sought, at least through 2021. Monsantos herbicide tolerant products (Roundup Ready traits in soybean, corn, canola and cotton seeds) are protected by U.S. patents that extend at least until 2014; and its second generation herbicide tolerant cotton, Roundup Ready Flex, and soybean, Roundup Ready 2 Yield, are protected by U.S. patents that extend until at least 2020. Monsanto broadly licenses technology and patents to other parties. For example, Monsanto has licensed the Roundup Ready trait in soybean, corn, canola, and cotton seeds and the YieldGard traits in corn to a wide range of commercial entities and academic institutions. Monsanto also holds licenses from other parties relating to certain products and processes. For example, Monsanto has obtained licenses to certain technologies that it uses to produce Roundup Ready seeds and Genuity SmartStax corn. These licenses generally last for the lifetime of the applicable patents. 7 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Monsanto owns trademark registrations and files trademark applications for the names and many of the designs used on its branded products around the world. Important company trademarks include Roundup Ready, Bollgard, Bollgard II, YieldGard, Genuity, Roundup Ready 2 Yield and SmartStax for traits; Acceleron for seed treatment products, DEKALB, Asgrow, Deltapine, and Vistive for row crop seeds, and Seminis and De Ruiter for vegetable seeds. Raw Materials and Energy Resources In growing locations throughout the world, we produce directly or contract with third party growers for corn seed, soybean seed, vegetable seeds, cotton seed, canola seed and other seeds. The availability and cost of seed depends primarily on seed yields, weather conditions, farmer contract terms, commodity prices, and global supply and demand. We seek to manage commodity price fluctuations through the use of futures contracts and other hedging mechanisms. Where practicable, we attempt to minimize the weather risks by producing seed at multiple growing locations and under irrigated conditions. Our Seeds and Genomics segment also purchases the energy we need to process our seed; these energy purchases are managed in conjunction with our Agricultural Productivity segment. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY SEGMENT Through our Agricultural Productivity segment, we manufacture Roundup brand herbicides and other herbicides and provide lawn and garden herbicide products for the residential market. Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) Agricultural Productivity Segment the tabular information about net sales of agricultural productivity products is incorporated by reference herein. Major Products Applications Major Brands Herbicides Nonselective agricultural, industrial, ornamental, turf and residential lawn and garden applications for weed control Roundup Control of preemergent annual grass and small seeded broadleaf weeds in corn and other crops Harness for corn and cotton Distribution of Products We have a worldwide distribution and sales and marketing organization for our agricultural productivity products. In some world areas, we use the same distribution and sales and marketing organization for our agricultural productivity products as for our seeds and traits. In other world areas, we have separate distribution and sales and marketing organizations for our agricultural productivity products. We sell our agricultural productivity products through distributors, independent retailers and dealers and agricultural cooperatives. In some cases outside the United States, we sell such products directly to farmers. We also sell certain of the chemical intermediates of our agricultural productivity products to other major agricultural chemical producers, who then market their own branded products to farmers. Certain agricultural productivity products are marketed through The Scotts Miracle Gro Company. Competition Our agricultural herbicide products have numerous major global manufacturing competitors who increased production at the same time that there has been an increase in the number of distributors packaging and selling generic glyphosate sourced from these suppliers. The growth in supply and sellers has added to the competitiveness and margin erosion in the glyphosate industry and in certain regions has increased the channel inventory. Competition from local or regional companies may also be significant. Our lawn and garden business has fewer than five significant national competitors and a larger number of regional competitors in the United States. The largest market for our lawn and garden herbicides is the United States. Competitive success in agricultural productivity products depends on price, product performance, the scope of solutions offered to farmers, market coverage, product availability and planning, and the service provided to distributors, retailers and farmers. Our lawn and garden herbicides compete on product performance and the brand value associated with our trademark Roundup. For additional information on competition for our agricultural herbicides, see Item 7 MD&A Outlook Agricultural Productivity, which is incorporated by reference herein. 8 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises and Concessions Monsanto also relies on patent protection for the Agricultural Productivity segment of its business. Patents covering glyphosate, an active ingredient in Roundup herbicides, have expired in the United States and all other countries. However, some of the patents on Monsanto glyphosate formulations and manufacturing processes in the United States and other countries extend beyond 2015. Monsanto has obtained licenses to chemicals used to make Harness herbicides and holds trademark registrations for the brands under which its chemistries are sold. The most significant trademark in this segment is Roundup. Monsanto holds (directly or by assignment) numerous phosphate leases issued on behalf of or granted by the U.S. government, the state of Idaho, and private parties. None of these leases are material individually, but are significant in the aggregate because elemental phosphorus is a key raw material for the production of glyphosate based herbicides. The phosphate leases have varying terms. The leases obtained from the U.S. government are of indefinite duration, subject to the modification of lease terms at 20 year intervals. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Some of these laws restrict the amount and type of emissions that our operations can release into the environment. Other laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq. (Superfund), can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any former or current site owners or operators or any parties who sent waste to these sites, without regard to fault or to the lawfulness of the original disposal. These laws and regulations may be amended from time to time; they may become more stringent. We are committed to long term environmental protection and compliance programs that reduce and monitor emissions of hazardous materials into the environment, and to the remediation of identified existing environmental concerns. Although the costs of our compliance with environmental laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, such costs are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position. In addition to compliance obligations at our own manufacturing locations and off site disposal facilities, under the terms of our Sept. 1, 2000, Separation Agreement with Pharmacia (the Separation Agreement), we are required to indemnify Pharmacia for any liability it may have for environmental remediation or other environmental responsibilities that are primarily related to Pharmacias former agricultural and chemicals businesses. For information regarding certain environmental proceedings, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings. See also information regarding remediation of waste disposal sites and reserves for remediation, appearing in Note 25 Commitments and Contingencies, which is incorporated herein by reference. Raw Materials and Energy Resources We are a significant purchaser of basic and intermediate raw materials. Typically, we purchase major raw materials and energy through long term contracts with multiple suppliers. Certain important raw materials are supplied by a few major suppliers. We expect the markets for our raw materials to remain balanced, though pricing will be cyclical with recovery of the global economy. Energy is available as required, but pricing is subject to market fluctuations. We seek to manage commodity price fluctuations through the use of futures contracts and other hedging mechanisms. Our proprietary technology is used in various global locations to produce the catalysts used in various intermediate steps in the production of glyphosate. We believe capacity is sufficient for our requirements and adequate safety stock inventory minimizes the risks associated with production outages. We manufacture and purchase disodium iminodiacetic acid, a key ingredient in the production of glyphosate. We manufacture our global supply of elemental phosphorus, a key raw material for the production of Roundup herbicides. We have multiple mineral rights which, subject to obtaining and maintaining appropriate mining permits, we believe will provide a long term supply of phosphate ore to meet our needs into the foreseeable future. As part of the ongoing course of operating our phosphorus production, we are required to periodically permit new mining leases. A new mine is currently in the process of being permitted with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. 9 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Monsantos expenses for research and development were $1,205 million in 2010, $1,098 million in 2009 and $980 million in 2008. In addition, we incurred charges of $163 million in 2009 and $164 million in 2008 for acquired in process research and development (IPR&D) related to acquisitions. See Note 4 Business Combinations for additional information regarding these acquisitions. SEASONALITY AND WORKING CAPITAL; BACKLOG For information on seasonality and working capital and backlog practices, see information in Item 7 MD&A Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources, which is incorporated herein by reference. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS As of Aug. 31, 2010, we employed about 21,400 regular employees worldwide and more than 6,200 temporary employees. The number of temporary employees varies greatly during the year because of the seasonal nature of our business. We believe that relations between Monsanto and its employees are satisfactory. CUSTOMERS Although no single customer (including affiliates) represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated worldwide net sales in 2010, our three largest U.S. agricultural distributors and their affiliates represented, in the aggregate, 15 percent of our worldwide net sales and 27 percent of our U.S. net sales. During 2010, one major U.S. distributor and its affiliates represented about 10 percent of the worldwide net sales for our Seeds and Genomics segment, and about 4 percent of the worldwide net sales for our Agricultural Productivity segment. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS See Item 1A under the heading Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability and Note 26 Segment and Geographic Data, which are incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 43 percent of Monsantos sales, including 37 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segments sales and 57 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segments sales, originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2010. SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA For information on segment and geographic data, see Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 26 Segment and Geographic Data, which is incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Competition in seeds and traits and agricultural chemicals has significantly affected, and will continue to affect, our sales. Many companies engage in plant biotechnology and breeding research and agricultural chemicals, and speed in getting a new product to market can be a significant competitive advantage. Our competitors success could render our existing products less competitive, resulting in reduced sales compared to our expectations or past results. We expect to see increasing competition from agricultural biotechnology firms and from major agrichemical, seed and food companies. We also expect to face continued competition for our Roundup herbicides and selective herbicides product lines, which could be influenced by trade and industrial policies of foreign countries. The extent to which we can realize cash and gross 10 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A profit from our business will depend on our ability to: control manufacturing and marketing costs without adversely affecting sales; predict and respond effectively to competitor products, pricing and marketing; provide marketing programs meeting the needs of our customers and of the farmers who are our end users; maintain an efficient distribution system; and develop new products and services with features attractive to our end users. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend claims against us can increase our costs and will not always succeed; any failures could adversely affect sales and profitability or restrict our ability to do business. Intellectual property rights are crucial to our business, particularly our Seeds and Genomics segment. We endeavor to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported. Different nations may provide limited rights and inconsistent duration of protection for our products. We may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Even if protection is obtained, competitors, farmers, or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe on our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, the practice by some farmers of saving seeds from non hybrid crops (such as soybeans, canola and cotton) containing our biotechnology traits has prevented and may continue to prevent us from realizing the full value of our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We cannot assure we would be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms. The extent to which we succeed or fail in our efforts to protect our intellectual property will affect our costs, sales and other results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation affecting our seed biotechnology and agricultural products and our research and manufacturing processes, which affects our sales and profitability. Regulatory and legislative requirements affect the development, manufacture and distribution of our products, including the testing and planting of seeds containing our biotechnology traits and the import of crops grown from those seeds, and non compliance can harm our sales and profitability. Obtaining permits for mining and production, and obtaining testing, planting and import approvals for seeds or biotechnology traits can be time consuming and costly, with no guarantee of success. The failure to receive necessary permits or approvals could have near and long term effects on our ability to sell some current and future products. Planting approvals may also include significant regulatory requirements that can limit our sales. Sales of our traits can be affected in jurisdictions where planting has been approved if we have not received approval for the import of crops containing biotechnology traits into key markets. Concern about unintended but unavoidable trace amounts (sometimes called adventitious presence) of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional (non biotechnology) seed, or in the grain or products produced from conventional or organic crops, among other things, could lead to increased regulation or legislation, which may include: liability transfer mechanisms that may include financial protection insurance; possible restrictions or moratoria on testing, planting or use of biotechnology traits; and requirements for labeling and traceability, which requirements may cause food processors and food companies to avoid biotechnology and select non biotechnology crop sources and can affect farmer seed purchase decisions and the sale of our products. Further, the detection of adventitious presence of traits not approved in the importing country may result in the withdrawal of seed lots from sale or in compliance actions, such as crop destruction or product recalls. Legislation encouraging or discouraging the planting of specific crops can also harm our sales. In addition, claims that increased use of glyphosate based herbicides or biotechnology traits increases the potential for the development of glyphosate resistant weeds or pests resistant to our traits could result in restrictions on the use of glyphosate based herbicides or seeds containing our traits or otherwise reduce our sales. The degree of public acceptance or perceived public acceptance of our biotechnology products can affect our sales and results of operations by affecting planting approvals, regulatory requirements and customer purchase decisions. Although all of our products go through rigorous testing, some opponents of our technology actively raise public concern about the potential for adverse effects of our products on human or animal health, other plants and the environment. The potential for adventitious presence of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional seed, or in the grain or products produced from conventional or organic crops, is another factor that can affect general public acceptance of these traits. Public concern can affect the timing of, and whether we are able to obtain, government approvals. Even after approvals 11 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A are granted, public concern may lead to increased regulation or legislation or litigation against government regulators concerning prior regulatory approvals, which could affect our sales and results of operations by affecting planting approvals, and may adversely affect sales of our products to farmers, due to their concerns about available markets for the sale of crops or other products derived from biotechnology. In addition, opponents of agricultural biotechnology have attacked farmers fields and facilities used by agricultural biotechnology companies, and may launch future attacks against farmers fields and our field testing sites and research, production, or other facilities, which could affect our sales and our costs. The successful development and commercialization of our pipeline products will be necessary for our growth. We use advanced breeding technologies to produce hybrids and varieties with superior performance in the farmers field, and we use biotechnology to introduce traits that enhance specific characteristics of our crops. The processes of breeding, biotechnology trait discovery and development and trait integration are lengthy, and a very small percentage of the genes and germplasm we test is selected for commercialization. There are a number of reasons why a new product concept may be abandoned, including greater than anticipated development costs, technical difficulties, regulatory obstacles, competition, inability to prove the original concept, lack of demand, and the need to divert focus, from time to time, to other initiatives with perceived opportunities for better returns. The length of time and the risk associated with the breeding and biotech pipelines are similar and interlinked because both are required as a package for commercial success in markets where biotech traits are approved for growers. In countries where biotech traits are not approved for widespread use, our sales depend on our germplasm. Commercial success frequently depends on being the first company to the market, and many of our competitors are also making considerable investments in similar new biotechnology or improved germplasm products. Consequently, if we are not able to fund extensive research and development activities and deliver new products to the markets we serve on a timely basis, our growth and operations will be harmed. Adverse outcomes in legal proceedings could subject us to substantial damages and adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. We are involved in major lawsuits concerning intellectual property, biotechnology, torts, contracts, antitrust allegations, employee benefits, and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to results of operations in the period recognized or limit our ability to engage in our business activities. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover any liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. In addition, pursuant to the Separation Agreement, we are required to indemnify Pharmacia for certain liabilities related to its former chemical and agricultural businesses. We have recorded reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the liability to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may be materially different from this estimate. The degree to which we may ultimately be responsible for the particular matters reflected in the reserve is uncertain. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for customer incentive programs relating to our glyphosate products. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability. We engage in manufacturing, seed production, research and development, and sales in many parts of the world. Although we have operations in virtually every region, our sales outside the United States in fiscal year 2010 were principally to customers in Brazil, Argentina, Canada, Mexico and India. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world generally have a more significant effect on our operations than developments in other places. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values and foreign currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; governmental pricing directives; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Acts of terror or war may impair our ability to operate in particular countries or regions, and may impede the flow of goods and services between countries. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency, or sell their commodity at prevailing international prices, and we may be unable to collect receivables from such customers. Further, changes in exchange rates may affect our net income, the book value of our assets outside the United States, and our shareowners equity. 12 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A In the event of any diversion of managements attention to matters related to acquisitions or any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with integrating acquired operations, our business, and in particular our results of operations and financial condition, may be harmed. We have recently completed acquisitions and we expect to make additional acquisitions. We must fit such acquisitions into our long term growth strategies to generate sufficient value to justify their cost. Acquisitions also present other challenges, including geographical coordination, personnel integration and retention of key management personnel, systems integration and the reconciliation of corporate cultures. Those operations could divert managements attention from our business or cause a temporary interruption of or loss of momentum in our business and the loss of key personnel from the acquired companies. Fluctuations in commodity prices can increase our costs and decrease our sales. We contract production with multiple growers at fair value and retain the seed in inventory until it is sold. These purchases constitute a significant portion of the manufacturing costs for our seeds. Additionally, our chemical manufacturing operations use chemical intermediates and energy, which are subject to increases in price as the costs of oil and natural gas increase. Accordingly, increases in commodity prices may negatively affect our cost of goods sold or cause us to increase seed or chemical prices, which could adversely affect our sales. We use hedging strategies, and most of our raw material supply agreements contain escalation factors, designed to mitigate the risk of short term changes in commodity prices. However, we are unable to avoid the risk of medium and long term increases. Farmers incomes are also affected by commodity prices; as a result, fluctuations in commodity prices could have a negative effect on their ability to purchase our seed and chemical products. Compliance with quality controls and regulations affecting our manufacturing may be costly, and failure to comply may result in decreased sales, penalties and remediation obligations. Because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes and engage in mining operations, we are subject to risks of accidental environmental contamination, and therefore to potential personal injury claims, remediation expenses and penalties. Should a catastrophic event occur at any of our facilities, we could face significant reconstruction or remediation costs, penalties, third party liability and loss of production capacity, which could affect our sales. In addition, lapses in quality or other manufacturing controls could affect our sales and result in claims for defective products. Our ability to match our production to the level of product demanded by farmers or our licensed customers has a significant effect on our sales, costs, and growth potential. Farmers decisions are affected by market, economic and weather conditions that are not known in advance. Failure to provide distributors with enough inventories of our products will reduce our current sales. However, product inventory levels at our distributors may reduce sales in future periods, as those distributor inventories are worked down. In addition, inadequate distributor liquidity could affect distributors ability to pay for our products and, therefore, affect our sales or our ability to collect on our receivables. International glyphosate manufacturing capacity has increased in the past few years. The price of this glyphosate will impact the selling price and margin of Roundup brands and also on our third party sourcing business. Our ability to issue short term debt to fund our cash flow requirements and the cost of such debt may affect our financial condition. We regularly extend credit to our customers in certain areas of the world so that they can buy agricultural products at the beginning of their growing seasons. Because of these credit practices and the seasonality of our sales, we may need to issue short term debt at certain times of the year to fund our cash flow requirements. The amount of short term debt will be greater to the extent that we are unable to collect customer receivables when due and to manage our costs and expenses. Any downgrade in our credit rating, or other limitation on our access to short term financing or refinancing, would increase our interest cost and adversely affect our profitability. 13 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Weather, natural disasters and accidents may significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. Weather conditions and natural disasters can affect the timing of planting and the acreage planted, as well as yields and commodity prices. In turn, the quality, cost and volumes of the seed that we are able to produce and sell will be affected, which will affect our sales and profitability. Natural disasters or industrial accidents could also affect our manufacturing facilities, or those of our major suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs and our ability to meet supply. One of our major U.S. glyphosate manufacturing facilities is located in Luling, Louisiana, which is an area subject to hurricanes. In addition, several of our key raw material and utility suppliers have production assets in the U.S. gulf coast region and are also susceptible to damage risk from hurricanes. Hawaii, which is also subject to hurricanes, is a major seeds and traits location for our pipeline products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At Aug. 31, 2010, there were no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC related to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We and our subsidiaries own or lease manufacturing facilities, laboratories, seed production and other agricultural facilities, office space, warehouses, and other land parcels in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and Africa. Our general offices, which we own, are located in St. Louis County, Missouri. These office and research facilities are principal properties. Additional principal properties used by the Seeds and Genomics segment include seed production and conditioning plants at Boone, Grinnell and Williamsburg, Iowa; Constantine, Michigan; Enkhuizen and Bergschenhoek, Netherlands; Illiopolis, Waterman and Farmer City, Illinois; Remington, Indiana; Kearney and Waco, Nebraska; Oxnard, California; Peyrehorade and Tr&egrave;bes, France; Rojas, Argentina; Sinesti, Romania; and Uberl&acirc;ndia, Brazil; and research sites at Ankeny, Iowa; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Maui, Hawaii; Middleton, Wisconsin; Mystic, Connecticut; and Woodland, California. We own all of these properties, except the one in Maui. The Seeds and Genomics segment also uses seed foundation and production facilities, breeding facilities, and genomics and other research laboratories at various other locations worldwide. The Agricultural Productivity segment has principal chemicals manufacturing facilities at Antwerp, Belgium; Cama&ccedil;ari, Brazil; Luling, Louisiana; Muscatine, Iowa; S&atilde;o Jos&eacute; dos Campos, Brazil; Soda Springs, Idaho; and Z&aacute;rate, Argentina. We own all of these properties, except the one in Antwerp, Belgium, which is subject to a lease for the land underlying the facility. 14 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A We believe that our principal properties are suitable and adequate for their use. Our facilities generally have sufficient capacity for our existing needs and expected near term growth. Expansion projects are undertaken as necessary to meet future needs. In particular, we have undertaken significant multiyear projects to expand our corn production facilities in North America in anticipation of increased demand for our corn seed and completed projects that increased capacity and improved the process at our Luling, Louisiana, glyphosate facility. Use of these facilities may vary with seasonal, economic and other business conditions, but none of the principal properties is substantially idle. In certain instances, we have leased portions of sites not required for current operations to third parties. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, as well as proceedings that we have considered to be material under SEC regulations. These include proceedings to which we are party in our own name and proceedings to which our former parent Pharmacia Corporation or its former subsidiary Solutia Inc. is a party but that we manage and for which we are responsible. Information regarding certain material proceedings and the possible effects on our business of proceedings we are defending is disclosed in Note 25 under the subheading Environmental and Litigation Liabilities Litigation and is incorporated by reference herein. Following is information regarding other material proceedings for which we are responsible. Patent and Commercial Proceedings On Dec. 23, 2008, we entered into a dispute resolution process with Pioneer Hi Bred International, Inc. (Pioneer), a wholly owned subsidiary of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont), to address issues regarding the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology. Pioneer has announced plans to combine or stack their Optimum &reg; GAT &reg; trait in soybeans with our patented first generation Roundup Ready technology, contrary to their previously disclosed plans to discontinue use of soybean varieties containing our technology and pursue the Optimum&reg; GAT&reg; trait alone. We believe that Pioneer is not authorized to make this genetic combination, and we are seeking to prevent non consensual use of our proprietary technology. On May 4, 2009, following unsuccessful discussions, Monsanto filed suit against DuPont and Pioneer in Federal District Court in St. Louis asserting patent infringement and breach of contract claims to prevent the unauthorized use of our Roundup Ready technology in corn and soybeans. On June 16, 2009, the defendants filed an answer and counterclaim seeking injunctive relief, damages and specific performance asserting a claim of license as well as the invalidity or unenforceability of the patent asserted by Monsanto, and also claiming alleged anticompetitive behavior relating to traits for corn and soybeans. The court, on Sept. 16, 2009, severed the antitrust defense interposed by DuPont for a separate, subsequent trial following our case for patent infringement and license breach. On Oct. 23, 2009, the Court heard our motion for judgment on the pleadings to declare DuPont and Pioneer in breach of their corn and soybean licensing agreements with us. On Jan. 15, 2010, the Court granted our motion declaring that DuPont and Pioneer are not licensed to create a product containing Roundup Ready and Optimum&reg; GAT&reg; traits stacked in combination. The remaining patent claims are set for trial on Oct. 17, 2011. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. Two purported class action suits were filed against us on Sept. 26, 2006, supposedly on behalf of all farmers who purchased our Roundup brand herbicides in the United States for commercial agricultural purposes since Sept. 26, 2002. Plaintiffs essentially allege that we have monopolized the market for glyphosate for commercial agricultural purposes. Plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages and injunctive relief. In late February 2007, three additional suits were filed, alleging similar claims. All of these suits were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. On July 18, 2007, the court ruled that any such suit had to be filed in federal or state court in Missouri; the court granted our motion to dismiss the two original cases. On Aug. 8, 2007, plaintiffs in the remaining three cases voluntarily dismissed their complaints, which have not been re filed. On Aug. 10, 2007, the same set of counsel filed a parallel action in federal court in San Antonio, Texas, on behalf of a retailer of glyphosate named Texas Grain. Plaintiffs seek to certify a national class of all entities that purchased glyphosate directly from us since August 2003. The magistrate judge issued his recommendation to the District Court on Aug. 7, 2009, denying class certification. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. 15 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Governmental Proceedings and Undertakings On Sept. 17, 2007, the EPA issued a Notice of Violation to us, alleging violations of the Clean Water Act at the South Rasmussen Mine near Soda Springs, Idaho. The EPA has asserted that the alleged violations may subject us to civil penalties. We are working with the EPA to reach a resolution of this matter. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On April 18, 2005, we received a subpoena from the Illinois Attorney General and have produced documents relating to the prices and terms upon which we license technology for genetically modified seeds, and upon which we sell or license genetically modified seeds to farmers. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On Sept. 4, 2007, we received a civil investigative demand from the Iowa Attorney General seeking information regarding the production and marketing of glyphosate and the development, production, marketing, or licensing of soybean, corn, or cotton germplasm containing transgenic traits. Iowa coordinated this inquiry with several other states. We have fully cooperated with this investigation and complied with all requests. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. We have reported to the EPA that in prior years sales and planting of our Bollgard and Bollgard II cotton products occurred in ten Texas counties where the registrations had included relevant restrictions. On July 1, 2010, we finalized a settlement with the EPA, without admitting liability, and paid a civil penalty of an immaterial amount. On Dec. 2, 2005, the Federal Revenue Service of the Ministry of Finance of Brazil issued a tax assessment against our wholly owned subsidiary, Monsanto do Brasil Ltda., challenging the tax treatment of $575 million of notes issued in 1998 on the basis that the transactions involving the notes represented contributions to the capital of Monsanto do Brasil rather than funding through issuance of notes. The assessment denies tax deductions for approximately $1.2 billion (subject to currency exchange rates) of interest expense and currency exchange losses that were claimed by Monsanto do Brasil under the notes. The assessment seeks payment of approximately $243 million (subject to currency exchange rates) of tax, penalties and interest related to the notes, and would preclude Monsanto do Brasil from using a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $1.1 billion (subject to currency exchange rates). The issuance of the notes was properly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil and we believe that there is no basis in law for this tax assessment. On Dec. 29, 2005, Monsanto do Brasil filed an appeal of this assessment with the Federal Revenue Service. On Oct. 28, 2008, the company received a partially favorable decision issued by the first level of Administrative Court. The Court reduced the assessed penalty from 150% to 75%, respectively, from $82 million to $41 million (each subject to currency exchange rates) and maintained the tax and interest. On Nov. 26, 2008, we filed an appeal before the second level of Administrative Court with regard to the adverse portion of the decision by the first level of Administrative Court. The Federal Revenue Service also appealed the portion of the decision favorable to Monsanto do Brasil. On Sept. 17, 2010, the appeals were assigned to the Administrative Council of Tax Appeals. The court date is pending. The company continues to believe that there is no basis in law for this tax assessment. Under the terms of a tax sharing agreement concluded with Pharmacia at the time of our separation from Pharmacia, Pharmacia would be responsible for a portion of any liability incurred by virtue of the tax assessment. As noted, certain dollar amounts have been calculated based on an exchange rate of 1.7 Brazilian reais per U.S. dollar, and will fluctuate with exchange rates in the future. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On Jan. 12, 2010, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) issued a civil investigative demand to Monsanto requesting information on our soybean traits business. Among other things, the DOJ has requested information regarding our plans for and licensing of soybean seed containing Roundup Ready or Roundup Ready 2 Yield traits. We are cooperating with this request. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. Securities and Derivative Proceedings On July 29, 2010, a purported class action suit, styled Rochester Laborers Pension Fund v. Monsanto Co., et al., was filed against us and three of our past and present executive officers in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The suit alleges that defendants violated the federal securities laws by making false or misleading statements between Jan. 7, 2009, and May 27, 2010, regarding our earnings guidance for fiscal 2009 and 2010 and the anticipated future performance of our Roundup business. The alleged class consists of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired Monsanto common 16 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A stock between Jan. 7, 2009, and May 27, 2010. Plaintiff claims that these statements artificially inflated the price of our stock and that purchasers of our stock during the relevant period were damaged when the stock price later declined. Plaintiff seeks the award of unspecified amount of damages on behalf of the alleged class, counsel fees and costs. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On Sept. 27, 2010, three members of the alleged class moved to be appointed the lead plaintiff in the action. Those motions have not yet been ruled upon. On Sept. 28, 2010, plaintiff Rochester Laborers Pension Fund advised the Court that it does not intend to file a motion for appointment as lead plaintiff, but is willing to serve as lead plaintiff should the movants fail to satisfy the requirements for doing so. On Aug. 4 and 5, 2010, two purported derivative suits styled Espinoza v. Grant, et al. and Clark v. Grant, et al., were filed on our behalf against our directors and three of our past and present executive officers in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, Missouri. Asserting claims for breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and unjust enrichment, plaintiffs allege that our directors themselves made or allowed Monsanto to make the same allegedly false and misleading statements at issue in the purported class action. Plaintiffs also assert a claim arising out of the acceleration of certain stock options held by one of our former executive officers upon his retirement, as well as a claim based on one directors sale of Monsanto stock while allegedly in possession of material, non public information relating to our earnings guidance. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and the award of unspecified amounts of damages and restitution for Monsanto, counsel fees and costs. Plaintiffs have moved for an order consolidating the Espinoza and Clark actions and appointing lead and liaison counsel. The parties have stipulated to the consolidation of the Espinoza and Clark actions and submitted the stipulation to the Court for its approval. Defendants have moved for a stay of these actions in favor of the proposed federal securities class action (described above) and the federal derivative action (described below). The parties have stipulated to a stay of these actions pending resolution of motions to dismiss expected to be filed in the federal actions, subject to specified exceptions, and have submitted their stipulation to the Court for its approval. On Aug. 30, 2010, another purported derivative action styled Kurland v. AtLee, et al., was filed on our behalf against our directors in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. Asserting claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, corporate waste, unjust enrichment and insider selling and misappropriation under Delaware law, the complaint contains allegations similar to the two state court derivative actions described above relating to the same allegedly false and misleading statements and a directors sale of shares, and adds allegations relating to a senior executives sale of Monsanto stock while allegedly in possession of material, non public information. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and the award of unspecified amounts of compensatory and exemplary damages, counsel fees and costs. On Sept. 3, 2010, defendants in the Rochester securities class action described above moved for consolidation and coordination of that action with the Kurland derivative action. On Sept. 28, 2010, the Court denied this motion, stating that pretrial coordination of the federal actions should occur. On Oct. 11, 2010, a second purported derivative action styled Stone v. Bachmann, et al., was filed on our behalf against certain of our directors. The allegations made and relief sought in the Stone action are substantially similar to the allegations made and relief sought in the Kurland action. On Oct. 13, 2010, a third purported derivative action, styled Fagin v. AtLee, et al., was filed on our behalf against our directors in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The allegations made and relief sought in the Fagin action are substantially similar to the allegations made and relief sought in both the Kurland and Stone actions. ITEM 4. [Removed and Reserved.] Executive Officers See Part III Item 10 of this Report on Form 10 K/A for information about our Executive Officers. 17 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Monsantos common stock is traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange, under the symbol MON. The number of shareowners of record as of Oct. 21, 2010, was 40,580. On June 27, 2006, the board of directors approved a two for one split of the companys common shares. The additional shares resulting from the stock split were paid on July 28, 2006, to shareowners of record on July 7, 2006. All share and per share information herein reflects this stock split. The original dividend rate adopted by the board of directors following the initial public offering (IPO) in October 2000 was $0.06. The board of directors increased the companys quarterly dividend rate in April 2003 to $0.065, in May 2004 to $0.0725, in December 2004 to $0.085, in December 2005 to $0.10, in December 2006 to $0.125, in August 2007 to $0.175, in June 2008 to $0.24, in January 2009 to $0.265 and in August 2010 to $0.28. The following table sets forth dividend declarations, as well as the high and low sales prices for Monsantos common stock, for the fiscal year 2010 and 2009 quarters indicated. Dividends per Share 1stQuarter 2nd Quarter 3rdQuarter 4th Quarter Fiscal Year 2010 $ $0.53(1) $ $0.55(1) $1.08 2009 $ $0.51(2) $ $0.53(2) $1.04 Common Stock Price 1stQuarter 2ndQuarter 3rdQuarter 4thQuarter Fiscal Year 2010 High $ 84.36 $87.06 $74.80 $62.29 $87.06 Low 66.57 70.53 48.16 44.61 44.61 2009 High $121.32 $87.32 $93.35 $87.40 $121.32 Low 63.47 65.60 69.62 70.08 63.47 (1) During the period from Dec. 1, 2009, through Feb. 28, 2010, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.265 per share on Dec. 7, 2009, and $0.265 per share on Jan. 26, 2010. During the period from June 1, 2010, through Aug. 31, 2010, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.265 per share on June 9, 2010, and $0.28 per share on Aug. 4, 2010. (2) During the period from Dec. 1, 2008, through Feb. 28, 2009, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.24 per share on Dec. 8, 2008, and $0.265 per share on Jan. 14, 2009. During the period from June 1, 2009, through Aug. 31, 2009, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.265 per share on June 9, 2009, and $0.265 per share on Aug. 5, 2009. 18 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table summarizes purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 by Monsanto and affiliated purchasers, pursuant to SEC rules. Period (a) Total Number ofShares Purchased (b) Average Price Paidper Share(1) (c) Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly Announced Plansor Programs (d) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs June 2010: June 1, 2010, through June 30, 2010 204,558(2) $49.63 204,400 $ 23,090,661 July 2010: July 1, 2010, through July 31, 2010 356,400(3) $53.17 288,900 $1,007,656,927 August 2010: Aug. 1, 2010, through Aug. 31, 2010 149,600 $58.17 149,600 $ 998,954,568 Total 710,558 $53.20 642,900 $ 998,954,568 (1) The average price paid per share is calculated on a trade date basis and excludes commission. (2) Includes 158 shares withheld to cover the withholding taxes upon the vesting of restricted stock. (3) Includes 67,500 shares purchased by affiliated purchasers. In April 2008, the board of directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $800 million of the companys common stock over a three year period. This repurchase program commenced Dec. 23, 2008, and was completed on Aug. 24, 2010. In June 2010, the board of directors authorized a new repurchase program of up to an additional $1 billion of the companys common stock over a three year period beginning July 1, 2010. This repurchase program commenced Aug. 24, 2010, and will expire on Aug. 24, 2013. There were no other publicly announced plans outstanding as of Aug. 31, 2010. 19 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Stock Price Performance Graph The graph below compares the performance of Monsantos common stock with the performance of the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (a broad based market index) and a peer group index over a 60 month period extending through the end of the 2010 fiscal year. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on Sept. 1, 2005, in our common stock, in the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the peer group index, and that all dividends were reinvested. Because we are involved both in the agricultural products business and in the seeds and genomics business, no published peer group accurately mirrors our portfolio of businesses. Accordingly, we created a peer group index that includes Bayer AG ADR, Dow Chemical Company, DuPont (E.I.) de Nemours and Company, BASF AG and Syngenta AG. The Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the peer group index are included for comparative purposes only. They do not necessarily reflect managements opinion that such indices are an appropriate measure of the relative performance of the stock involved, and they are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. In accordance with the rules of the SEC, the information contained in the Stock Price Performance Graph on this page shall not be deemed to be soliciting material, or to be filed with the SEC or subject to the SECs Regulation 14A, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, except to the extent that Monsanto specifically requests that the information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act. 20 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA As discussed in the Explanatory Note and Note 31 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Amended Filing, we have restated our previously issued audited consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2010 and 2009; accordingly, all affected amounts included in the following Selected Financial Data have been revised. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended Aug. 31, (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2010Restated 2009Restated 2008 2007 2006 Operating Results: Net sales(1) $ 10,483 $ 11,685 $ 11,365 $ 8,349 $ 7,065 Income from operations 1,603 3,061 2,721 1,409 1,139 Income from continuing operations(6) 1,111 2,105 2,027 925 688 Income on discontinued operations(2) 4 11 17 80 24 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax benefit(3) (6 ) Net income attributable to Monsanto Company 1,096 2,092 2,024 993 689 Basic Earnings (Loss) per Share Attributable to Monsanto Company:(4)(5) Income from continuing operations $ 2.01 $ 3.80 $ 3.66 $ 1.68 $ 1.24 Income on discontinued operations(2) 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.14 0.04 Cumulative effect of accounting change(3) (0.01 ) Net income 2.02 3.82 3.69 1.82 1.27 Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share Attributable to Monsanto Company:(4)(5) Income from continuing operations $ 1.99 $ 3.75 $ 3.59 $ 1.64 $ 1.22 Income on discontinued operations(2) 0.02 0.03 0.15 0.04 Cumulative effect of accounting change(3) (0.01 ) Net income 1.99 3.77 3.62 1.79 1.25 Financial Position at end of Period: Total assets $ 17,852 $ 17,831 $ 17,991 $ 12,983 $ 11,728 Working capital(7) 3,494 4,056 3,170 2,009 3,182 Current ratio(7) 1.98:1 2.09:1 1.71:1 1.65:1 2.40:1 Long term debt 1,862 1,724 1,792 1,150 1,639 Debt to capital ratio(8) 17 % 15 % 16 % 16 % 20 % Other Data:(4) Dividends per share $ 1.08 $ 1.04 $ 0.83 $ 0.55 $ 0.40 Stock price per share: High $ 87.06 $ 121.32 $ 145.80 $ 70.88 $ 47.58 Low $ 44.61 $ 63.47 $ 69.22 $ 42.75 $ 27.80 End of period $ 52.65 $ 83.88 $ 114.25 $ 69.74 $ 47.44 Basic shares outstanding(5) 543.7 547.1 548.9 544.8 540.6 Diluted shares outstanding(5) 550.8 555.6 559.7 555.3 551.9 See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information regarding the factors that have affected or may affect the comparability of our business results. (1) In 2006 and 2007, American Seeds acquired several regional seed companies. In 2007, we acquired Delta and Pine Land Company (DPL) and divested the Stoneville&reg; and NexGen&reg; cotton seed brands and related business assets. In 2008, we acquired De Ruiter, Cristiani, and Agroeste and entered into an agreement to divest the Dairy business. In 2009, we acquired Aly Participacoes Ltda. and WestBred, LLC and divested the Dairy business. See Note 4 Business Combinations for further details of these acquisitions and Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details of these divestitures. (2) In 2006, we recorded an additional write down of $3 million aftertax related to the remaining assets associated with the environmental technologies businesses. In 2007, we sold the Stoneville and NexGen businesses as part of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) approval for the acquisition of DPL. In 2008, we entered into an agreement to sell the Dairy business. Accordingly, these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations in the Statements of Consolidated Operations for all periods presented above. See Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details of these completed dispositions. (3) In 2006, we adopted the Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). In connection with the adoption of this new accounting guidance, we recorded a cumulative effect of accounting change of $6 million aftertax. 21 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A (4) For all periods presented, the share and per share amounts (including stock price) reflect the effect of the two for one stock split (in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend) that was completed on July 28, 2006. (5) Effective Sept. 1, 2009, we retrospectively adopted a FASB issued standard that requires unvested share based payment awards that contain rights to receive non forfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents to be included in the two class method of computing earnings per share as described in the Earnings Per Share topic of the ASC. (6) Effective Sept. 1, 2009, we retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance related to the Consolidation topic of the ASC. (7) Working capital is total current assets less total current liabilities; current ratio represents total current assets divided by total current liabilities. (8) Debt to capital ratio is the sum of short term and long term debt, divided by the sum of short term and long term debt and shareowners equity. 22 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As discussed in the Explanatory Note and Note 31 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, we have restated our previously issued audited consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2010 and 2009; accordingly, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations have been revised for the effects of the restatement. OVERVIEW Background Monsanto Company, along with its subsidiaries, is a leading global provider of agricultural products for farmers. Our seeds, biotechnology trait products, and herbicides provide farmers with solutions that improve productivity, reduce the costs of farming, and produce better foods for consumers and better feed for animals. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics and Agricultural Productivity. Through our Seeds and Genomics segment, we produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB, Asgrow, Deltapine, Seminis and De Ruiter, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We also provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. Through our Agricultural Productivity segment, we manufacture Roundup and Harness brand herbicides and other herbicides. Approximately 43 percent of our total company sales, 37 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segment sales, and 57 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segment sales originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into an agreement to divest the animal agricultural products business (the Dairy business). This transaction was consummated on Oct. 1, 2008. As a result, financial data for this business has been presented as discontinued operations as outlined below. The financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the provisions of the Property, Plant and Equipment topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). Accordingly, for all periods presented herein, the Statements of Consolidated Operations and Consolidated Financial Position have been conformed to this presentation. The Dairy business was previously reported as part of the Agricultural Productivity segment. See Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements referred to throughout this MD&A are included in Part II 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) Seeds and Genomics Segment the tabular information about net sales of our seeds and traits, is incorporated herein by reference. Major Products Applications Major Brands Germplasm Row crop seeds: Corn hybrids and foundation seed Soybean varieties and foundation seed Cotton varieties, hybrids and foundation seed Other row crop varieties and hybrids, such as canola Vegetable seeds: Open field and protected culture seed for tomato, pepper, eggplant, melon, cucumber, pumpkin, squash, beans, broccoli, onions, and lettuce, among others DEKALB, Channel Bio for corn Asgrow for soybeans Deltapine for cotton Seminis and De Ruiter for vegetable seeds Biotechnology traits(1) Enable crops to protect themselves from borers and rootworm in corn and leaf and boll feeding worms in cotton, reducing the need for applications of insecticides SmartStax, YieldGard, YieldGard VT Triple, VT TriplePRO and VT Double PRO for corn Bollgard and Bollgard II for cotton Enable crops, such as corn, soybeans, cotton, and canola to be tolerant of Roundup and other glyphosate based herbicides Roundup Ready and Roundup Ready 2 Yield(soybeans only) Genuity, global umbrella trait brand (1) Monsanto also offers farmers stacked trait products, which are single seed products in which two or more traits are combined. 6 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Distribution of Products We have a worldwide distribution and sales and marketing organization for our seeds and traits. We sell our products under Monsanto brands and license technology and genetic material to others for sale under their own brands. Through distributors, independent retailers and dealers, agricultural cooperatives, plant raisers, and agents, we market our DEKALB, Asgrow and Deltapine branded germplasm to farmers in every agricultural region of the world. In the United States, we market regional seed brands under our American Seeds, LLC and Channel Bio, LLC businesses to farmers directly, as well as through dealers, agricultural cooperatives and agents. In countries where they are approved for sale, we market and sell our trait technologies with our branded germplasm, pursuant to license agreements with our farmer customers. In Brazil and Paraguay, we have implemented a point of delivery, grain based payment system. We contract with grain handlers to collect applicable trait fees when farmers deliver their grain. In addition to selling our products under our own brands, we license a broad package of germplasm and trait technologies to large and small seed companies in the United States and certain international markets. Those seed companies in turn market our trait technologies in their branded germplasm; they may also market our germplasm under their own brand name. Our vegetable seeds are marketed in more than 100 countries through distributors, independent retailers and dealers, agricultural cooperatives, plant raisers and agents, as well as directly to farmers. Competition The global market for the products of our Seeds and Genomics segment is competitive and the competition has intensified. Both our row crops and our vegetable seed businesses compete with numerous multinational agrichemical and seed marketers globally and with hundreds of smaller companies regionally. With the exception of competitors in our Seminis and De Ruiter vegetable seed business, most of our seed competitors are also licensees of our germplasm or biotechnology traits. In certain countries, we also compete with government owned seed companies. Our biotechnology traits compete as a system with other practices, including the application of agricultural chemicals, and traits developed by other companies. Our weed and insect control systems compete with chemical and seed products produced by other agrichemical and seed marketers. Competition for the discovery of new traits based on biotechnology or genomics is likely to come from major global agrichemical companies, smaller biotechnology research companies and institutions, state funded programs, and academic institutions. Enabling technologies to enhance biotechnology trait development may also come from academic researchers and biotechnology research companies. Competitors using our technology outside of license terms and farmers who save seed from one year to the next (in violation of license or other commercial terms) also affect competitive conditions. Product performance (in particular, crop vigor and yield for our row crops and quality for our vegetable seeds), customer support and service, intellectual property rights and protection, product availability and planning, and price are important elements of our market success in seeds. In addition, distributor, retailer and farmer relationships are important in the United States and many other countries. The primary factors underlying the competitive success of traits are performance and commercial viability; timeliness of introduction; value compared with other practices and products; market coverage; service provided to distributors, retailers and farmers; governmental approvals; value capture; public acceptance; and environmental characteristics. Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses In the United States and many foreign countries, Monsanto holds a broad business portfolio of patents, trademarks and licenses that provide intellectual property protection for its seeds and genomics related products and processes. Monsanto routinely obtains patents and or plant variety protection for its breeding technology, commercial varietal seed products, and for the parents of its commercial hybrid seed products. Monsanto also routinely obtains registrations for its commercial seed products in registration countries, as well as Plant Variety Protection Act Certificates in the United States and equivalent plant breeders rights in other countries. Monsantos insect protection traits (including YieldGard Corn Borer in corn seed and Bollgard trait in cotton seed) are protected by patents in various countries that extend at least until 2011, and YieldGard Corn Rootworm traits extend at least until 2018. Having filed patent applications in 2001 and 2002, Monsanto anticipates that the Bollgard II product will be patent protected in the United States, and in other areas in which patent protection was sought, at least through 2021. Monsantos herbicide tolerant products (Roundup Ready traits in soybean, corn, canola and cotton seeds) are protected by U.S. patents that extend at least until 2014; and its second generation herbicide tolerant cotton, Roundup Ready Flex, and soybean, Roundup Ready 2 Yield, are protected by U.S. patents that extend until at least 2020. Monsanto broadly licenses technology and patents to other parties. For example, Monsanto has licensed the Roundup Ready trait in soybean, corn, canola, and cotton seeds and the YieldGard traits in corn to a wide range of commercial entities and academic institutions. Monsanto also holds licenses from other parties relating to certain products and processes. For example, Monsanto has obtained licenses to certain technologies that it uses to produce Roundup Ready seeds and Genuity SmartStax corn. These licenses generally last for the lifetime of the applicable patents. 7 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Monsanto owns trademark registrations and files trademark applications for the names and many of the designs used on its branded products around the world. Important company trademarks include Roundup Ready, Bollgard, Bollgard II, YieldGard, Genuity, Roundup Ready 2 Yield and SmartStax for traits; Acceleron for seed treatment products, DEKALB, Asgrow, Deltapine, and Vistive for row crop seeds, and Seminis and De Ruiter for vegetable seeds. Raw Materials and Energy Resources In growing locations throughout the world, we produce directly or contract with third party growers for corn seed, soybean seed, vegetable seeds, cotton seed, canola seed and other seeds. The availability and cost of seed depends primarily on seed yields, weather conditions, farmer contract terms, commodity prices, and global supply and demand. We seek to manage commodity price fluctuations through the use of futures contracts and other hedging mechanisms. Where practicable, we attempt to minimize the weather risks by producing seed at multiple growing locations and under irrigated conditions. Our Seeds and Genomics segment also purchases the energy we need to process our seed; these energy purchases are managed in conjunction with our Agricultural Productivity segment. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY SEGMENT Through our Agricultural Productivity segment, we manufacture Roundup brand herbicides and other herbicides and provide lawn and garden herbicide products for the residential market. Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) Agricultural Productivity Segment the tabular information about net sales of agricultural productivity products is incorporated by reference herein. Major Products Applications Major Brands Herbicides Nonselective agricultural, industrial, ornamental, turf and residential lawn and garden applications for weed control Roundup Control of preemergent annual grass and small seeded broadleaf weeds in corn and other crops Harness for corn and cotton Distribution of Products We have a worldwide distribution and sales and marketing organization for our agricultural productivity products. In some world areas, we use the same distribution and sales and marketing organization for our agricultural productivity products as for our seeds and traits. In other world areas, we have separate distribution and sales and marketing organizations for our agricultural productivity products. We sell our agricultural productivity products through distributors, independent retailers and dealers and agricultural cooperatives. In some cases outside the United States, we sell such products directly to farmers. We also sell certain of the chemical intermediates of our agricultural productivity products to other major agricultural chemical producers, who then market their own branded products to farmers. Certain agricultural productivity products are marketed through The Scotts Miracle Gro Company. Competition Our agricultural herbicide products have numerous major global manufacturing competitors who increased production at the same time that there has been an increase in the number of distributors packaging and selling generic glyphosate sourced from these suppliers. The growth in supply and sellers has added to the competitiveness and margin erosion in the glyphosate industry and in certain regions has increased the channel inventory. Competition from local or regional companies may also be significant. Our lawn and garden business has fewer than five significant national competitors and a larger number of regional competitors in the United States. The largest market for our lawn and garden herbicides is the United States. Competitive success in agricultural productivity products depends on price, product performance, the scope of solutions offered to farmers, market coverage, product availability and planning, and the service provided to distributors, retailers and farmers. Our lawn and garden herbicides compete on product performance and the brand value associated with our trademark Roundup. For additional information on competition for our agricultural herbicides, see Item 7 MD&A Outlook Agricultural Productivity, which is incorporated by reference herein. 8 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises and Concessions Monsanto also relies on patent protection for the Agricultural Productivity segment of its business. Patents covering glyphosate, an active ingredient in Roundup herbicides, have expired in the United States and all other countries. However, some of the patents on Monsanto glyphosate formulations and manufacturing processes in the United States and other countries extend beyond 2015. Monsanto has obtained licenses to chemicals used to make Harness herbicides and holds trademark registrations for the brands under which its chemistries are sold. The most significant trademark in this segment is Roundup. Monsanto holds (directly or by assignment) numerous phosphate leases issued on behalf of or granted by the U.S. government, the state of Idaho, and private parties. None of these leases are material individually, but are significant in the aggregate because elemental phosphorus is a key raw material for the production of glyphosate based herbicides. The phosphate leases have varying terms. The leases obtained from the U.S. government are of indefinite duration, subject to the modification of lease terms at 20 year intervals. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Some of these laws restrict the amount and type of emissions that our operations can release into the environment. Other laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq. (Superfund), can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any former or current site owners or operators or any parties who sent waste to these sites, without regard to fault or to the lawfulness of the original disposal. These laws and regulations may be amended from time to time; they may become more stringent. We are committed to long term environmental protection and compliance programs that reduce and monitor emissions of hazardous materials into the environment, and to the remediation of identified existing environmental concerns. Although the costs of our compliance with environmental laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, such costs are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position. In addition to compliance obligations at our own manufacturing locations and off site disposal facilities, under the terms of our Sept. 1, 2000, Separation Agreement with Pharmacia (the Separation Agreement), we are required to indemnify Pharmacia for any liability it may have for environmental remediation or other environmental responsibilities that are primarily related to Pharmacias former agricultural and chemicals businesses. For information regarding certain environmental proceedings, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings. See also information regarding remediation of waste disposal sites and reserves for remediation, appearing in Note 25 Commitments and Contingencies, which is incorporated herein by reference. Raw Materials and Energy Resources We are a significant purchaser of basic and intermediate raw materials. Typically, we purchase major raw materials and energy through long term contracts with multiple suppliers. Certain important raw materials are supplied by a few major suppliers. We expect the markets for our raw materials to remain balanced, though pricing will be cyclical with recovery of the global economy. Energy is available as required, but pricing is subject to market fluctuations. We seek to manage commodity price fluctuations through the use of futures contracts and other hedging mechanisms. Our proprietary technology is used in various global locations to produce the catalysts used in various intermediate steps in the production of glyphosate. We believe capacity is sufficient for our requirements and adequate safety stock inventory minimizes the risks associated with production outages. We manufacture and purchase disodium iminodiacetic acid, a key ingredient in the production of glyphosate. We manufacture our global supply of elemental phosphorus, a key raw material for the production of Roundup herbicides. We have multiple mineral rights which, subject to obtaining and maintaining appropriate mining permits, we believe will provide a long term supply of phosphate ore to meet our needs into the foreseeable future. As part of the ongoing course of operating our phosphorus production, we are required to periodically permit new mining leases. A new mine is currently in the process of being permitted with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. 9 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Monsantos expenses for research and development were $1,205 million in 2010, $1,098 million in 2009 and $980 million in 2008. In addition, we incurred charges of $163 million in 2009 and $164 million in 2008 for acquired in process research and development (IPR&D) related to acquisitions. See Note 4 Business Combinations for additional information regarding these acquisitions. SEASONALITY AND WORKING CAPITAL; BACKLOG For information on seasonality and working capital and backlog practices, see information in Item 7 MD&A Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources, which is incorporated herein by reference. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS As of Aug. 31, 2010, we employed about 21,400 regular employees worldwide and more than 6,200 temporary employees. The number of temporary employees varies greatly during the year because of the seasonal nature of our business. We believe that relations between Monsanto and its employees are satisfactory. CUSTOMERS Although no single customer (including affiliates) represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated worldwide net sales in 2010, our three largest U.S. agricultural distributors and their affiliates represented, in the aggregate, 15 percent of our worldwide net sales and 27 percent of our U.S. net sales. During 2010, one major U.S. distributor and its affiliates represented about 10 percent of the worldwide net sales for our Seeds and Genomics segment, and about 4 percent of the worldwide net sales for our Agricultural Productivity segment. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS See Item 1A under the heading Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability and Note 26 Segment and Geographic Data, which are incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 43 percent of Monsantos sales, including 37 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segments sales and 57 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segments sales, originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2010. SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA For information on segment and geographic data, see Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 26 Segment and Geographic Data, which is incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Competition in seeds and traits and agricultural chemicals has significantly affected, and will continue to affect, our sales. Many companies engage in plant biotechnology and breeding research and agricultural chemicals, and speed in getting a new product to market can be a significant competitive advantage. Our competitors success could render our existing products less competitive, resulting in reduced sales compared to our expectations or past results. We expect to see increasing competition from agricultural biotechnology firms and from major agrichemical, seed and food companies. We also expect to face continued competition for our Roundup herbicides and selective herbicides product lines, which could be influenced by trade and industrial policies of foreign countries. The extent to which we can realize cash and gross 10 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A profit from our business will depend on our ability to: control manufacturing and marketing costs without adversely affecting sales; predict and respond effectively to competitor products, pricing and marketing; provide marketing programs meeting the needs of our customers and of the farmers who are our end users; maintain an efficient distribution system; and develop new products and services with features attractive to our end users. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend claims against us can increase our costs and will not always succeed; any failures could adversely affect sales and profitability or restrict our ability to do business. Intellectual property rights are crucial to our business, particularly our Seeds and Genomics segment. We endeavor to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported. Different nations may provide limited rights and inconsistent duration of protection for our products. We may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Even if protection is obtained, competitors, farmers, or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe on our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, the practice by some farmers of saving seeds from non hybrid crops (such as soybeans, canola and cotton) containing our biotechnology traits has prevented and may continue to prevent us from realizing the full value of our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We cannot assure we would be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms. The extent to which we succeed or fail in our efforts to protect our intellectual property will affect our costs, sales and other results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation affecting our seed biotechnology and agricultural products and our research and manufacturing processes, which affects our sales and profitability. Regulatory and legislative requirements affect the development, manufacture and distribution of our products, including the testing and planting of seeds containing our biotechnology traits and the import of crops grown from those seeds, and non compliance can harm our sales and profitability. Obtaining permits for mining and production, and obtaining testing, planting and import approvals for seeds or biotechnology traits can be time consuming and costly, with no guarantee of success. The failure to receive necessary permits or approvals could have near and long term effects on our ability to sell some current and future products. Planting approvals may also include significant regulatory requirements that can limit our sales. Sales of our traits can be affected in jurisdictions where planting has been approved if we have not received approval for the import of crops containing biotechnology traits into key markets. Concern about unintended but unavoidable trace amounts (sometimes called adventitious presence) of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional (non biotechnology) seed, or in the grain or products produced from conventional or organic crops, among other things, could lead to increased regulation or legislation, which may include: liability transfer mechanisms that may include financial protection insurance; possible restrictions or moratoria on testing, planting or use of biotechnology traits; and requirements for labeling and traceability, which requirements may cause food processors and food companies to avoid biotechnology and select non biotechnology crop sources and can affect farmer seed purchase decisions and the sale of our products. Further, the detection of adventitious presence of traits not approved in the importing country may result in the withdrawal of seed lots from sale or in compliance actions, such as crop destruction or product recalls. Legislation encouraging or discouraging the planting of specific crops can also harm our sales. In addition, claims that increased use of glyphosate based herbicides or biotechnology traits increases the potential for the development of glyphosate resistant weeds or pests resistant to our traits could result in restrictions on the use of glyphosate based herbicides or seeds containing our traits or otherwise reduce our sales. The degree of public acceptance or perceived public acceptance of our biotechnology products can affect our sales and results of operations by affecting planting approvals, regulatory requirements and customer purchase decisions. Although all of our products go through rigorous testing, some opponents of our technology actively raise public concern about the potential for adverse effects of our products on human or animal health, other plants and the environment. The potential for adventitious presence of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional seed, or in the grain or products produced from conventional or organic crops, is another factor that can affect general public acceptance of these traits. Public concern can affect the timing of, and whether we are able to obtain, government approvals. Even after approvals 11 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A are granted, public concern may lead to increased regulation or legislation or litigation against government regulators concerning prior regulatory approvals, which could affect our sales and results of operations by affecting planting approvals, and may adversely affect sales of our products to farmers, due to their concerns about available markets for the sale of crops or other products derived from biotechnology. In addition, opponents of agricultural biotechnology have attacked farmers fields and facilities used by agricultural biotechnology companies, and may launch future attacks against farmers fields and our field testing sites and research, production, or other facilities, which could affect our sales and our costs. The successful development and commercialization of our pipeline products will be necessary for our growth. We use advanced breeding technologies to produce hybrids and varieties with superior performance in the farmers field, and we use biotechnology to introduce traits that enhance specific characteristics of our crops. The processes of breeding, biotechnology trait discovery and development and trait integration are lengthy, and a very small percentage of the genes and germplasm we test is selected for commercialization. There are a number of reasons why a new product concept may be abandoned, including greater than anticipated development costs, technical difficulties, regulatory obstacles, competition, inability to prove the original concept, lack of demand, and the need to divert focus, from time to time, to other initiatives with perceived opportunities for better returns. The length of time and the risk associated with the breeding and biotech pipelines are similar and interlinked because both are required as a package for commercial success in markets where biotech traits are approved for growers. In countries where biotech traits are not approved for widespread use, our sales depend on our germplasm. Commercial success frequently depends on being the first company to the market, and many of our competitors are also making considerable investments in similar new biotechnology or improved germplasm products. Consequently, if we are not able to fund extensive research and development activities and deliver new products to the markets we serve on a timely basis, our growth and operations will be harmed. Adverse outcomes in legal proceedings could subject us to substantial damages and adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. We are involved in major lawsuits concerning intellectual property, biotechnology, torts, contracts, antitrust allegations, employee benefits, and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to results of operations in the period recognized or limit our ability to engage in our business activities. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover any liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. In addition, pursuant to the Separation Agreement, we are required to indemnify Pharmacia for certain liabilities related to its former chemical and agricultural businesses. We have recorded reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the liability to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may be materially different from this estimate. The degree to which we may ultimately be responsible for the particular matters reflected in the reserve is uncertain. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for customer incentive programs relating to our glyphosate products. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability. We engage in manufacturing, seed production, research and development, and sales in many parts of the world. Although we have operations in virtually every region, our sales outside the United States in fiscal year 2010 were principally to customers in Brazil, Argentina, Canada, Mexico and India. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world generally have a more significant effect on our operations than developments in other places. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values and foreign currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; governmental pricing directives; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Acts of terror or war may impair our ability to operate in particular countries or regions, and may impede the flow of goods and services between countries. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency, or sell their commodity at prevailing international prices, and we may be unable to collect receivables from such customers. Further, changes in exchange rates may affect our net income, the book value of our assets outside the United States, and our shareowners equity. 12 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A In the event of any diversion of managements attention to matters related to acquisitions or any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with integrating acquired operations, our business, and in particular our results of operations and financial condition, may be harmed. We have recently completed acquisitions and we expect to make additional acquisitions. We must fit such acquisitions into our long term growth strategies to generate sufficient value to justify their cost. Acquisitions also present other challenges, including geographical coordination, personnel integration and retention of key management personnel, systems integration and the reconciliation of corporate cultures. Those operations could divert managements attention from our business or cause a temporary interruption of or loss of momentum in our business and the loss of key personnel from the acquired companies. Fluctuations in commodity prices can increase our costs and decrease our sales. We contract production with multiple growers at fair value and retain the seed in inventory until it is sold. These purchases constitute a significant portion of the manufacturing costs for our seeds. Additionally, our chemical manufacturing operations use chemical intermediates and energy, which are subject to increases in price as the costs of oil and natural gas increase. Accordingly, increases in commodity prices may negatively affect our cost of goods sold or cause us to increase seed or chemical prices, which could adversely affect our sales. We use hedging strategies, and most of our raw material supply agreements contain escalation factors, designed to mitigate the risk of short term changes in commodity prices. However, we are unable to avoid the risk of medium and long term increases. Farmers incomes are also affected by commodity prices; as a result, fluctuations in commodity prices could have a negative effect on their ability to purchase our seed and chemical products. Compliance with quality controls and regulations affecting our manufacturing may be costly, and failure to comply may result in decreased sales, penalties and remediation obligations. Because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes and engage in mining operations, we are subject to risks of accidental environmental contamination, and therefore to potential personal injury claims, remediation expenses and penalties. Should a catastrophic event occur at any of our facilities, we could face significant reconstruction or remediation costs, penalties, third party liability and loss of production capacity, which could affect our sales. In addition, lapses in quality or other manufacturing controls could affect our sales and result in claims for defective products. Our ability to match our production to the level of product demanded by farmers or our licensed customers has a significant effect on our sales, costs, and growth potential. Farmers decisions are affected by market, economic and weather conditions that are not known in advance. Failure to provide distributors with enough inventories of our products will reduce our current sales. However, product inventory levels at our distributors may reduce sales in future periods, as those distributor inventories are worked down. In addition, inadequate distributor liquidity could affect distributors ability to pay for our products and, therefore, affect our sales or our ability to collect on our receivables. International glyphosate manufacturing capacity has increased in the past few years. The price of this glyphosate will impact the selling price and margin of Roundup brands and also on our third party sourcing business. Our ability to issue short term debt to fund our cash flow requirements and the cost of such debt may affect our financial condition. We regularly extend credit to our customers in certain areas of the world so that they can buy agricultural products at the beginning of their growing seasons. Because of these credit practices and the seasonality of our sales, we may need to issue short term debt at certain times of the year to fund our cash flow requirements. The amount of short term debt will be greater to the extent that we are unable to collect customer receivables when due and to manage our costs and expenses. Any downgrade in our credit rating, or other limitation on our access to short term financing or refinancing, would increase our interest cost and adversely affect our profitability. 13 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Weather, natural disasters and accidents may significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. Weather conditions and natural disasters can affect the timing of planting and the acreage planted, as well as yields and commodity prices. In turn, the quality, cost and volumes of the seed that we are able to produce and sell will be affected, which will affect our sales and profitability. Natural disasters or industrial accidents could also affect our manufacturing facilities, or those of our major suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs and our ability to meet supply. One of our major U.S. glyphosate manufacturing facilities is located in Luling, Louisiana, which is an area subject to hurricanes. In addition, several of our key raw material and utility suppliers have production assets in the U.S. gulf coast region and are also susceptible to damage risk from hurricanes. Hawaii, which is also subject to hurricanes, is a major seeds and traits location for our pipeline products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At Aug. 31, 2010, there were no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC related to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We and our subsidiaries own or lease manufacturing facilities, laboratories, seed production and other agricultural facilities, office space, warehouses, and other land parcels in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and Africa. Our general offices, which we own, are located in St. Louis County, Missouri. These office and research facilities are principal properties. Additional principal properties used by the Seeds and Genomics segment include seed production and conditioning plants at Boone, Grinnell and Williamsburg, Iowa; Constantine, Michigan; Enkhuizen and Bergschenhoek, Netherlands; Illiopolis, Waterman and Farmer City, Illinois; Remington, Indiana; Kearney and Waco, Nebraska; Oxnard, California; Peyrehorade and Tr&egrave;bes, France; Rojas, Argentina; Sinesti, Romania; and Uberl&acirc;ndia, Brazil; and research sites at Ankeny, Iowa; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Maui, Hawaii; Middleton, Wisconsin; Mystic, Connecticut; and Woodland, California. We own all of these properties, except the one in Maui. The Seeds and Genomics segment also uses seed foundation and production facilities, breeding facilities, and genomics and other research laboratories at various other locations worldwide. The Agricultural Productivity segment has principal chemicals manufacturing facilities at Antwerp, Belgium; Cama&ccedil;ari, Brazil; Luling, Louisiana; Muscatine, Iowa; S&atilde;o Jos&eacute; dos Campos, Brazil; Soda Springs, Idaho; and Z&aacute;rate, Argentina. We own all of these properties, except the one in Antwerp, Belgium, which is subject to a lease for the land underlying the facility. 14 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A We believe that our principal properties are suitable and adequate for their use. Our facilities generally have sufficient capacity for our existing needs and expected near term growth. Expansion projects are undertaken as necessary to meet future needs. In particular, we have undertaken significant multiyear projects to expand our corn production facilities in North America in anticipation of increased demand for our corn seed and completed projects that increased capacity and improved the process at our Luling, Louisiana, glyphosate facility. Use of these facilities may vary with seasonal, economic and other business conditions, but none of the principal properties is substantially idle. In certain instances, we have leased portions of sites not required for current operations to third parties. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, as well as proceedings that we have considered to be material under SEC regulations. These include proceedings to which we are party in our own name and proceedings to which our former parent Pharmacia Corporation or its former subsidiary Solutia Inc. is a party but that we manage and for which we are responsible. Information regarding certain material proceedings and the possible effects on our business of proceedings we are defending is disclosed in Note 25 under the subheading Environmental and Litigation Liabilities Litigation and is incorporated by reference herein. Following is information regarding other material proceedings for which we are responsible. Patent and Commercial Proceedings On Dec. 23, 2008, we entered into a dispute resolution process with Pioneer Hi Bred International, Inc. (Pioneer), a wholly owned subsidiary of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont), to address issues regarding the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology. Pioneer has announced plans to combine or stack their Optimum &reg; GAT &reg; trait in soybeans with our patented first generation Roundup Ready technology, contrary to their previously disclosed plans to discontinue use of soybean varieties containing our technology and pursue the Optimum&reg; GAT&reg; trait alone. We believe that Pioneer is not authorized to make this genetic combination, and we are seeking to prevent non consensual use of our proprietary technology. On May 4, 2009, following unsuccessful discussions, Monsanto filed suit against DuPont and Pioneer in Federal District Court in St. Louis asserting patent infringement and breach of contract claims to prevent the unauthorized use of our Roundup Ready technology in corn and soybeans. On June 16, 2009, the defendants filed an answer and counterclaim seeking injunctive relief, damages and specific performance asserting a claim of license as well as the invalidity or unenforceability of the patent asserted by Monsanto, and also claiming alleged anticompetitive behavior relating to traits for corn and soybeans. The court, on Sept. 16, 2009, severed the antitrust defense interposed by DuPont for a separate, subsequent trial following our case for patent infringement and license breach. On Oct. 23, 2009, the Court heard our motion for judgment on the pleadings to declare DuPont and Pioneer in breach of their corn and soybean licensing agreements with us. On Jan. 15, 2010, the Court granted our motion declaring that DuPont and Pioneer are not licensed to create a product containing Roundup Ready and Optimum&reg; GAT&reg; traits stacked in combination. The remaining patent claims are set for trial on Oct. 17, 2011. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. Two purported class action suits were filed against us on Sept. 26, 2006, supposedly on behalf of all farmers who purchased our Roundup brand herbicides in the United States for commercial agricultural purposes since Sept. 26, 2002. Plaintiffs essentially allege that we have monopolized the market for glyphosate for commercial agricultural purposes. Plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages and injunctive relief. In late February 2007, three additional suits were filed, alleging similar claims. All of these suits were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. On July 18, 2007, the court ruled that any such suit had to be filed in federal or state court in Missouri; the court granted our motion to dismiss the two original cases. On Aug. 8, 2007, plaintiffs in the remaining three cases voluntarily dismissed their complaints, which have not been re filed. On Aug. 10, 2007, the same set of counsel filed a parallel action in federal court in San Antonio, Texas, on behalf of a retailer of glyphosate named Texas Grain. Plaintiffs seek to certify a national class of all entities that purchased glyphosate directly from us since August 2003. The magistrate judge issued his recommendation to the District Court on Aug. 7, 2009, denying class certification. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. 15 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Governmental Proceedings and Undertakings On Sept. 17, 2007, the EPA issued a Notice of Violation to us, alleging violations of the Clean Water Act at the South Rasmussen Mine near Soda Springs, Idaho. The EPA has asserted that the alleged violations may subject us to civil penalties. We are working with the EPA to reach a resolution of this matter. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On April 18, 2005, we received a subpoena from the Illinois Attorney General and have produced documents relating to the prices and terms upon which we license technology for genetically modified seeds, and upon which we sell or license genetically modified seeds to farmers. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On Sept. 4, 2007, we received a civil investigative demand from the Iowa Attorney General seeking information regarding the production and marketing of glyphosate and the development, production, marketing, or licensing of soybean, corn, or cotton germplasm containing transgenic traits. Iowa coordinated this inquiry with several other states. We have fully cooperated with this investigation and complied with all requests. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. We have reported to the EPA that in prior years sales and planting of our Bollgard and Bollgard II cotton products occurred in ten Texas counties where the registrations had included relevant restrictions. On July 1, 2010, we finalized a settlement with the EPA, without admitting liability, and paid a civil penalty of an immaterial amount. On Dec. 2, 2005, the Federal Revenue Service of the Ministry of Finance of Brazil issued a tax assessment against our wholly owned subsidiary, Monsanto do Brasil Ltda., challenging the tax treatment of $575 million of notes issued in 1998 on the basis that the transactions involving the notes represented contributions to the capital of Monsanto do Brasil rather than funding through issuance of notes. The assessment denies tax deductions for approximately $1.2 billion (subject to currency exchange rates) of interest expense and currency exchange losses that were claimed by Monsanto do Brasil under the notes. The assessment seeks payment of approximately $243 million (subject to currency exchange rates) of tax, penalties and interest related to the notes, and would preclude Monsanto do Brasil from using a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $1.1 billion (subject to currency exchange rates). The issuance of the notes was properly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil and we believe that there is no basis in law for this tax assessment. On Dec. 29, 2005, Monsanto do Brasil filed an appeal of this assessment with the Federal Revenue Service. On Oct. 28, 2008, the company received a partially favorable decision issued by the first level of Administrative Court. The Court reduced the assessed penalty from 150% to 75%, respectively, from $82 million to $41 million (each subject to currency exchange rates) and maintained the tax and interest. On Nov. 26, 2008, we filed an appeal before the second level of Administrative Court with regard to the adverse portion of the decision by the first level of Administrative Court. The Federal Revenue Service also appealed the portion of the decision favorable to Monsanto do Brasil. On Sept. 17, 2010, the appeals were assigned to the Administrative Council of Tax Appeals. The court date is pending. The company continues to believe that there is no basis in law for this tax assessment. Under the terms of a tax sharing agreement concluded with Pharmacia at the time of our separation from Pharmacia, Pharmacia would be responsible for a portion of any liability incurred by virtue of the tax assessment. As noted, certain dollar amounts have been calculated based on an exchange rate of 1.7 Brazilian reais per U.S. dollar, and will fluctuate with exchange rates in the future. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On Jan. 12, 2010, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) issued a civil investigative demand to Monsanto requesting information on our soybean traits business. Among other things, the DOJ has requested information regarding our plans for and licensing of soybean seed containing Roundup Ready or Roundup Ready 2 Yield traits. We are cooperating with this request. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. Securities and Derivative Proceedings On July 29, 2010, a purported class action suit, styled Rochester Laborers Pension Fund v. Monsanto Co., et al., was filed against us and three of our past and present executive officers in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The suit alleges that defendants violated the federal securities laws by making false or misleading statements between Jan. 7, 2009, and May 27, 2010, regarding our earnings guidance for fiscal 2009 and 2010 and the anticipated future performance of our Roundup business. The alleged class consists of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired Monsanto common 16 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A stock between Jan. 7, 2009, and May 27, 2010. Plaintiff claims that these statements artificially inflated the price of our stock and that purchasers of our stock during the relevant period were damaged when the stock price later declined. Plaintiff seeks the award of unspecified amount of damages on behalf of the alleged class, counsel fees and costs. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On Sept. 27, 2010, three members of the alleged class moved to be appointed the lead plaintiff in the action. Those motions have not yet been ruled upon. On Sept. 28, 2010, plaintiff Rochester Laborers Pension Fund advised the Court that it does not intend to file a motion for appointment as lead plaintiff, but is willing to serve as lead plaintiff should the movants fail to satisfy the requirements for doing so. On Aug. 4 and 5, 2010, two purported derivative suits styled Espinoza v. Grant, et al. and Clark v. Grant, et al., were filed on our behalf against our directors and three of our past and present executive officers in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, Missouri. Asserting claims for breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and unjust enrichment, plaintiffs allege that our directors themselves made or allowed Monsanto to make the same allegedly false and misleading statements at issue in the purported class action. Plaintiffs also assert a claim arising out of the acceleration of certain stock options held by one of our former executive officers upon his retirement, as well as a claim based on one directors sale of Monsanto stock while allegedly in possession of material, non public information relating to our earnings guidance. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and the award of unspecified amounts of damages and restitution for Monsanto, counsel fees and costs. Plaintiffs have moved for an order consolidating the Espinoza and Clark actions and appointing lead and liaison counsel. The parties have stipulated to the consolidation of the Espinoza and Clark actions and submitted the stipulation to the Court for its approval. Defendants have moved for a stay of these actions in favor of the proposed federal securities class action (described above) and the federal derivative action (described below). The parties have stipulated to a stay of these actions pending resolution of motions to dismiss expected to be filed in the federal actions, subject to specified exceptions, and have submitted their stipulation to the Court for its approval. On Aug. 30, 2010, another purported derivative action styled Kurland v. AtLee, et al., was filed on our behalf against our directors in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. Asserting claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, corporate waste, unjust enrichment and insider selling and misappropriation under Delaware law, the complaint contains allegations similar to the two state court derivative actions described above relating to the same allegedly false and misleading statements and a directors sale of shares, and adds allegations relating to a senior executives sale of Monsanto stock while allegedly in possession of material, non public information. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and the award of unspecified amounts of compensatory and exemplary damages, counsel fees and costs. On Sept. 3, 2010, defendants in the Rochester securities class action described above moved for consolidation and coordination of that action with the Kurland derivative action. On Sept. 28, 2010, the Court denied this motion, stating that pretrial coordination of the federal actions should occur. On Oct. 11, 2010, a second purported derivative action styled Stone v. Bachmann, et al., was filed on our behalf against certain of our directors. The allegations made and relief sought in the Stone action are substantially similar to the allegations made and relief sought in the Kurland action. On Oct. 13, 2010, a third purported derivative action, styled Fagin v. AtLee, et al., was filed on our behalf against our directors in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The allegations made and relief sought in the Fagin action are substantially similar to the allegations made and relief sought in both the Kurland and Stone actions. ITEM 4. [Removed and Reserved.] Executive Officers See Part III Item 10 of this Report on Form 10 K/A for information about our Executive Officers. 17 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Monsantos common stock is traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange, under the symbol MON. The number of shareowners of record as of Oct. 21, 2010, was 40,580. On June 27, 2006, the board of directors approved a two for one split of the companys common shares. The additional shares resulting from the stock split were paid on July 28, 2006, to shareowners of record on July 7, 2006. All share and per share information herein reflects this stock split. The original dividend rate adopted by the board of directors following the initial public offering (IPO) in October 2000 was $0.06. The board of directors increased the companys quarterly dividend rate in April 2003 to $0.065, in May 2004 to $0.0725, in December 2004 to $0.085, in December 2005 to $0.10, in December 2006 to $0.125, in August 2007 to $0.175, in June 2008 to $0.24, in January 2009 to $0.265 and in August 2010 to $0.28. The following table sets forth dividend declarations, as well as the high and low sales prices for Monsantos common stock, for the fiscal year 2010 and 2009 quarters indicated. Dividends per Share 1stQuarter 2nd Quarter 3rdQuarter 4th Quarter Fiscal Year 2010 $ $0.53(1) $ $0.55(1) $1.08 2009 $ $0.51(2) $ $0.53(2) $1.04 Common Stock Price 1stQuarter 2ndQuarter 3rdQuarter 4thQuarter Fiscal Year 2010 High $ 84.36 $87.06 $74.80 $62.29 $87.06 Low 66.57 70.53 48.16 44.61 44.61 2009 High $121.32 $87.32 $93.35 $87.40 $121.32 Low 63.47 65.60 69.62 70.08 63.47 (1) During the period from Dec. 1, 2009, through Feb. 28, 2010, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.265 per share on Dec. 7, 2009, and $0.265 per share on Jan. 26, 2010. During the period from June 1, 2010, through Aug. 31, 2010, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.265 per share on June 9, 2010, and $0.28 per share on Aug. 4, 2010. (2) During the period from Dec. 1, 2008, through Feb. 28, 2009, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.24 per share on Dec. 8, 2008, and $0.265 per share on Jan. 14, 2009. During the period from June 1, 2009, through Aug. 31, 2009, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.265 per share on June 9, 2009, and $0.265 per share on Aug. 5, 2009. 18 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table summarizes purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 by Monsanto and affiliated purchasers, pursuant to SEC rules. Period (a) Total Number ofShares Purchased (b) Average Price Paidper Share(1) (c) Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly Announced Plansor Programs (d) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs June 2010: June 1, 2010, through June 30, 2010 204,558(2) $49.63 204,400 $ 23,090,661 July 2010: July 1, 2010, through July 31, 2010 356,400(3) $53.17 288,900 $1,007,656,927 August 2010: Aug. 1, 2010, through Aug. 31, 2010 149,600 $58.17 149,600 $ 998,954,568 Total 710,558 $53.20 642,900 $ 998,954,568 (1) The average price paid per share is calculated on a trade date basis and excludes commission. (2) Includes 158 shares withheld to cover the withholding taxes upon the vesting of restricted stock. (3) Includes 67,500 shares purchased by affiliated purchasers. In April 2008, the board of directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $800 million of the companys common stock over a three year period. This repurchase program commenced Dec. 23, 2008, and was completed on Aug. 24, 2010. In June 2010, the board of directors authorized a new repurchase program of up to an additional $1 billion of the companys common stock over a three year period beginning July 1, 2010. This repurchase program commenced Aug. 24, 2010, and will expire on Aug. 24, 2013. There were no other publicly announced plans outstanding as of Aug. 31, 2010. 19 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Stock Price Performance Graph The graph below compares the performance of Monsantos common stock with the performance of the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (a broad based market index) and a peer group index over a 60 month period extending through the end of the 2010 fiscal year. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on Sept. 1, 2005, in our common stock, in the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the peer group index, and that all dividends were reinvested. Because we are involved both in the agricultural products business and in the seeds and genomics business, no published peer group accurately mirrors our portfolio of businesses. Accordingly, we created a peer group index that includes Bayer AG ADR, Dow Chemical Company, DuPont (E.I.) de Nemours and Company, BASF AG and Syngenta AG. The Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the peer group index are included for comparative purposes only. They do not necessarily reflect managements opinion that such indices are an appropriate measure of the relative performance of the stock involved, and they are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. In accordance with the rules of the SEC, the information contained in the Stock Price Performance Graph on this page shall not be deemed to be soliciting material, or to be filed with the SEC or subject to the SECs Regulation 14A, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, except to the extent that Monsanto specifically requests that the information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act. 20 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA As discussed in the Explanatory Note and Note 31 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Amended Filing, we have restated our previously issued audited consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2010 and 2009; accordingly, all affected amounts included in the following Selected Financial Data have been revised. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended Aug. 31, (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2010Restated 2009Restated 2008 2007 2006 Operating Results: Net sales(1) $ 10,483 $ 11,685 $ 11,365 $ 8,349 $ 7,065 Income from operations 1,603 3,061 2,721 1,409 1,139 Income from continuing operations(6) 1,111 2,105 2,027 925 688 Income on discontinued operations(2) 4 11 17 80 24 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax benefit(3) (6 ) Net income attributable to Monsanto Company 1,096 2,092 2,024 993 689 Basic Earnings (Loss) per Share Attributable to Monsanto Company:(4)(5) Income from continuing operations $ 2.01 $ 3.80 $ 3.66 $ 1.68 $ 1.24 Income on discontinued operations(2) 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.14 0.04 Cumulative effect of accounting change(3) (0.01 ) Net income 2.02 3.82 3.69 1.82 1.27 Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share Attributable to Monsanto Company:(4)(5) Income from continuing operations $ 1.99 $ 3.75 $ 3.59 $ 1.64 $ 1.22 Income on discontinued operations(2) 0.02 0.03 0.15 0.04 Cumulative effect of accounting change(3) (0.01 ) Net income 1.99 3.77 3.62 1.79 1.25 Financial Position at end of Period: Total assets $ 17,852 $ 17,831 $ 17,991 $ 12,983 $ 11,728 Working capital(7) 3,494 4,056 3,170 2,009 3,182 Current ratio(7) 1.98:1 2.09:1 1.71:1 1.65:1 2.40:1 Long term debt 1,862 1,724 1,792 1,150 1,639 Debt to capital ratio(8) 17 % 15 % 16 % 16 % 20 % Other Data:(4) Dividends per share $ 1.08 $ 1.04 $ 0.83 $ 0.55 $ 0.40 Stock price per share: High $ 87.06 $ 121.32 $ 145.80 $ 70.88 $ 47.58 Low $ 44.61 $ 63.47 $ 69.22 $ 42.75 $ 27.80 End of period $ 52.65 $ 83.88 $ 114.25 $ 69.74 $ 47.44 Basic shares outstanding(5) 543.7 547.1 548.9 544.8 540.6 Diluted shares outstanding(5) 550.8 555.6 559.7 555.3 551.9 See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information regarding the factors that have affected or may affect the comparability of our business results. (1) In 2006 and 2007, American Seeds acquired several regional seed companies. In 2007, we acquired Delta and Pine Land Company (DPL) and divested the Stoneville&reg; and NexGen&reg; cotton seed brands and related business assets. In 2008, we acquired De Ruiter, Cristiani, and Agroeste and entered into an agreement to divest the Dairy business. In 2009, we acquired Aly Participacoes Ltda. and WestBred, LLC and divested the Dairy business. See Note 4 Business Combinations for further details of these acquisitions and Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details of these divestitures. (2) In 2006, we recorded an additional write down of $3 million aftertax related to the remaining assets associated with the environmental technologies businesses. In 2007, we sold the Stoneville and NexGen businesses as part of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) approval for the acquisition of DPL. In 2008, we entered into an agreement to sell the Dairy business. Accordingly, these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations in the Statements of Consolidated Operations for all periods presented above. See Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details of these completed dispositions. (3) In 2006, we adopted the Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). In connection with the adoption of this new accounting guidance, we recorded a cumulative effect of accounting change of $6 million aftertax. 21 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A (4) For all periods presented, the share and per share amounts (including stock price) reflect the effect of the two for one stock split (in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend) that was completed on July 28, 2006. (5) Effective Sept. 1, 2009, we retrospectively adopted a FASB issued standard that requires unvested share based payment awards that contain rights to receive non forfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents to be included in the two class method of computing earnings per share as described in the Earnings Per Share topic of the ASC. (6) Effective Sept. 1, 2009, we retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance related to the Consolidation topic of the ASC. (7) Working capital is total current assets less total current liabilities; current ratio represents total current assets divided by total current liabilities. (8) Debt to capital ratio is the sum of short term and long term debt, divided by the sum of short term and long term debt and shareowners equity. 22 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As discussed in the Explanatory Note and Note 31 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, we have restated our previously issued audited consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2010 and 2009; accordingly, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations have been revised for the effects of the restatement. OVERVIEW Background Monsanto Company, along with its subsidiaries, is a leading global provider of agricultural products for farmers. Our seeds, biotechnology trait products, and herbicides provide farmers with solutions that improve productivity, reduce the costs of farming, and produce better foods for consumers and better feed for animals. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics and Agricultural Productivity. Through our Seeds and Genomics segment, we produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB, Asgrow, Deltapine, Seminis and De Ruiter, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We also provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. Through our Agricultural Productivity segment, we manufacture Roundup and Harness brand herbicides and other herbicides. Approximately 43 percent of our total company sales, 37 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segment sales, and 57 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segment sales originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into an agreement to divest the animal agricultural products business (the Dairy business). This transaction was consummated on Oct. 1, 2008. As a result, financial data for this business has been presented as discontinued operations as outlined below. The financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the provisions of the Property, Plant and Equipment topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). Accordingly, for all periods presented herein, the Statements of Consolidated Operations and Consolidated Financial Position have been conformed to this presentation. The Dairy business was previously reported as part of the Agricultural Productivity segment. See Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements referred to throughout this MD&A are included in Part II 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) Agricultural Productivity Segment the tabular information about net sales of agricultural productivity products is incorporated by reference herein. Major Products Applications Major Brands Herbicides Nonselective agricultural, industrial, ornamental, turf and residential lawn and garden applications for weed control Roundup Control of preemergent annual grass and small seeded broadleaf weeds in corn and other crops Harness for corn and cotton Distribution of Products We have a worldwide distribution and sales and marketing organization for our agricultural productivity products. In some world areas, we use the same distribution and sales and marketing organization for our agricultural productivity products as for our seeds and traits. In other world areas, we have separate distribution and sales and marketing organizations for our agricultural productivity products. We sell our agricultural productivity products through distributors, independent retailers and dealers and agricultural cooperatives. In some cases outside the United States, we sell such products directly to farmers. We also sell certain of the chemical intermediates of our agricultural productivity products to other major agricultural chemical producers, who then market their own branded products to farmers. Certain agricultural productivity products are marketed through The Scotts Miracle Gro Company. Competition Our agricultural herbicide products have numerous major global manufacturing competitors who increased production at the same time that there has been an increase in the number of distributors packaging and selling generic glyphosate sourced from these suppliers. The growth in supply and sellers has added to the competitiveness and margin erosion in the glyphosate industry and in certain regions has increased the channel inventory. Competition from local or regional companies may also be significant. Our lawn and garden business has fewer than five significant national competitors and a larger number of regional competitors in the United States. The largest market for our lawn and garden herbicides is the United States. Competitive success in agricultural productivity products depends on price, product performance, the scope of solutions offered to farmers, market coverage, product availability and planning, and the service provided to distributors, retailers and farmers. Our lawn and garden herbicides compete on product performance and the brand value associated with our trademark Roundup. For additional information on competition for our agricultural herbicides, see Item 7 MD&A Outlook Agricultural Productivity, which is incorporated by reference herein. 8 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises and Concessions Monsanto also relies on patent protection for the Agricultural Productivity segment of its business. Patents covering glyphosate, an active ingredient in Roundup herbicides, have expired in the United States and all other countries. However, some of the patents on Monsanto glyphosate formulations and manufacturing processes in the United States and other countries extend beyond 2015. Monsanto has obtained licenses to chemicals used to make Harness herbicides and holds trademark registrations for the brands under which its chemistries are sold. The most significant trademark in this segment is Roundup. Monsanto holds (directly or by assignment) numerous phosphate leases issued on behalf of or granted by the U.S. government, the state of Idaho, and private parties. None of these leases are material individually, but are significant in the aggregate because elemental phosphorus is a key raw material for the production of glyphosate based herbicides. The phosphate leases have varying terms. The leases obtained from the U.S. government are of indefinite duration, subject to the modification of lease terms at 20 year intervals. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Some of these laws restrict the amount and type of emissions that our operations can release into the environment. Other laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq. (Superfund), can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any former or current site owners or operators or any parties who sent waste to these sites, without regard to fault or to the lawfulness of the original disposal. These laws and regulations may be amended from time to time; they may become more stringent. We are committed to long term environmental protection and compliance programs that reduce and monitor emissions of hazardous materials into the environment, and to the remediation of identified existing environmental concerns. Although the costs of our compliance with environmental laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, such costs are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position. In addition to compliance obligations at our own manufacturing locations and off site disposal facilities, under the terms of our Sept. 1, 2000, Separation Agreement with Pharmacia (the Separation Agreement), we are required to indemnify Pharmacia for any liability it may have for environmental remediation or other environmental responsibilities that are primarily related to Pharmacias former agricultural and chemicals businesses. For information regarding certain environmental proceedings, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings. See also information regarding remediation of waste disposal sites and reserves for remediation, appearing in Note 25 Commitments and Contingencies, which is incorporated herein by reference. Raw Materials and Energy Resources We are a significant purchaser of basic and intermediate raw materials. Typically, we purchase major raw materials and energy through long term contracts with multiple suppliers. Certain important raw materials are supplied by a few major suppliers. We expect the markets for our raw materials to remain balanced, though pricing will be cyclical with recovery of the global economy. Energy is available as required, but pricing is subject to market fluctuations. We seek to manage commodity price fluctuations through the use of futures contracts and other hedging mechanisms. Our proprietary technology is used in various global locations to produce the catalysts used in various intermediate steps in the production of glyphosate. We believe capacity is sufficient for our requirements and adequate safety stock inventory minimizes the risks associated with production outages. We manufacture and purchase disodium iminodiacetic acid, a key ingredient in the production of glyphosate. We manufacture our global supply of elemental phosphorus, a key raw material for the production of Roundup herbicides. We have multiple mineral rights which, subject to obtaining and maintaining appropriate mining permits, we believe will provide a long term supply of phosphate ore to meet our needs into the foreseeable future. As part of the ongoing course of operating our phosphorus production, we are required to periodically permit new mining leases. A new mine is currently in the process of being permitted with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. 9 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Monsantos expenses for research and development were $1,205 million in 2010, $1,098 million in 2009 and $980 million in 2008. In addition, we incurred charges of $163 million in 2009 and $164 million in 2008 for acquired in process research and development (IPR&D) related to acquisitions. See Note 4 Business Combinations for additional information regarding these acquisitions. SEASONALITY AND WORKING CAPITAL; BACKLOG For information on seasonality and working capital and backlog practices, see information in Item 7 MD&A Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources, which is incorporated herein by reference. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS As of Aug. 31, 2010, we employed about 21,400 regular employees worldwide and more than 6,200 temporary employees. The number of temporary employees varies greatly during the year because of the seasonal nature of our business. We believe that relations between Monsanto and its employees are satisfactory. CUSTOMERS Although no single customer (including affiliates) represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated worldwide net sales in 2010, our three largest U.S. agricultural distributors and their affiliates represented, in the aggregate, 15 percent of our worldwide net sales and 27 percent of our U.S. net sales. During 2010, one major U.S. distributor and its affiliates represented about 10 percent of the worldwide net sales for our Seeds and Genomics segment, and about 4 percent of the worldwide net sales for our Agricultural Productivity segment. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS See Item 1A under the heading Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability and Note 26 Segment and Geographic Data, which are incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 43 percent of Monsantos sales, including 37 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segments sales and 57 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segments sales, originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2010. SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA For information on segment and geographic data, see Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 26 Segment and Geographic Data, which is incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Competition in seeds and traits and agricultural chemicals has significantly affected, and will continue to affect, our sales. Many companies engage in plant biotechnology and breeding research and agricultural chemicals, and speed in getting a new product to market can be a significant competitive advantage. Our competitors success could render our existing products less competitive, resulting in reduced sales compared to our expectations or past results. We expect to see increasing competition from agricultural biotechnology firms and from major agrichemical, seed and food companies. We also expect to face continued competition for our Roundup herbicides and selective herbicides product lines, which could be influenced by trade and industrial policies of foreign countries. The extent to which we can realize cash and gross 10 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A profit from our business will depend on our ability to: control manufacturing and marketing costs without adversely affecting sales; predict and respond effectively to competitor products, pricing and marketing; provide marketing programs meeting the needs of our customers and of the farmers who are our end users; maintain an efficient distribution system; and develop new products and services with features attractive to our end users. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend claims against us can increase our costs and will not always succeed; any failures could adversely affect sales and profitability or restrict our ability to do business. Intellectual property rights are crucial to our business, particularly our Seeds and Genomics segment. We endeavor to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported. Different nations may provide limited rights and inconsistent duration of protection for our products. We may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Even if protection is obtained, competitors, farmers, or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe on our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, the practice by some farmers of saving seeds from non hybrid crops (such as soybeans, canola and cotton) containing our biotechnology traits has prevented and may continue to prevent us from realizing the full value of our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We cannot assure we would be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms. The extent to which we succeed or fail in our efforts to protect our intellectual property will affect our costs, sales and other results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation affecting our seed biotechnology and agricultural products and our research and manufacturing processes, which affects our sales and profitability. Regulatory and legislative requirements affect the development, manufacture and distribution of our products, including the testing and planting of seeds containing our biotechnology traits and the import of crops grown from those seeds, and non compliance can harm our sales and profitability. Obtaining permits for mining and production, and obtaining testing, planting and import approvals for seeds or biotechnology traits can be time consuming and costly, with no guarantee of success. The failure to receive necessary permits or approvals could have near and long term effects on our ability to sell some current and future products. Planting approvals may also include significant regulatory requirements that can limit our sales. Sales of our traits can be affected in jurisdictions where planting has been approved if we have not received approval for the import of crops containing biotechnology traits into key markets. Concern about unintended but unavoidable trace amounts (sometimes called adventitious presence) of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional (non biotechnology) seed, or in the grain or products produced from conventional or organic crops, among other things, could lead to increased regulation or legislation, which may include: liability transfer mechanisms that may include financial protection insurance; possible restrictions or moratoria on testing, planting or use of biotechnology traits; and requirements for labeling and traceability, which requirements may cause food processors and food companies to avoid biotechnology and select non biotechnology crop sources and can affect farmer seed purchase decisions and the sale of our products. Further, the detection of adventitious presence of traits not approved in the importing country may result in the withdrawal of seed lots from sale or in compliance actions, such as crop destruction or product recalls. Legislation encouraging or discouraging the planting of specific crops can also harm our sales. In addition, claims that increased use of glyphosate based herbicides or biotechnology traits increases the potential for the development of glyphosate resistant weeds or pests resistant to our traits could result in restrictions on the use of glyphosate based herbicides or seeds containing our traits or otherwise reduce our sales. The degree of public acceptance or perceived public acceptance of our biotechnology products can affect our sales and results of operations by affecting planting approvals, regulatory requirements and customer purchase decisions. Although all of our products go through rigorous testing, some opponents of our technology actively raise public concern about the potential for adverse effects of our products on human or animal health, other plants and the environment. The potential for adventitious presence of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional seed, or in the grain or products produced from conventional or organic crops, is another factor that can affect general public acceptance of these traits. Public concern can affect the timing of, and whether we are able to obtain, government approvals. Even after approvals 11 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A are granted, public concern may lead to increased regulation or legislation or litigation against government regulators concerning prior regulatory approvals, which could affect our sales and results of operations by affecting planting approvals, and may adversely affect sales of our products to farmers, due to their concerns about available markets for the sale of crops or other products derived from biotechnology. In addition, opponents of agricultural biotechnology have attacked farmers fields and facilities used by agricultural biotechnology companies, and may launch future attacks against farmers fields and our field testing sites and research, production, or other facilities, which could affect our sales and our costs. The successful development and commercialization of our pipeline products will be necessary for our growth. We use advanced breeding technologies to produce hybrids and varieties with superior performance in the farmers field, and we use biotechnology to introduce traits that enhance specific characteristics of our crops. The processes of breeding, biotechnology trait discovery and development and trait integration are lengthy, and a very small percentage of the genes and germplasm we test is selected for commercialization. There are a number of reasons why a new product concept may be abandoned, including greater than anticipated development costs, technical difficulties, regulatory obstacles, competition, inability to prove the original concept, lack of demand, and the need to divert focus, from time to time, to other initiatives with perceived opportunities for better returns. The length of time and the risk associated with the breeding and biotech pipelines are similar and interlinked because both are required as a package for commercial success in markets where biotech traits are approved for growers. In countries where biotech traits are not approved for widespread use, our sales depend on our germplasm. Commercial success frequently depends on being the first company to the market, and many of our competitors are also making considerable investments in similar new biotechnology or improved germplasm products. Consequently, if we are not able to fund extensive research and development activities and deliver new products to the markets we serve on a timely basis, our growth and operations will be harmed. Adverse outcomes in legal proceedings could subject us to substantial damages and adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. We are involved in major lawsuits concerning intellectual property, biotechnology, torts, contracts, antitrust allegations, employee benefits, and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to results of operations in the period recognized or limit our ability to engage in our business activities. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover any liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. In addition, pursuant to the Separation Agreement, we are required to indemnify Pharmacia for certain liabilities related to its former chemical and agricultural businesses. We have recorded reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the liability to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may be materially different from this estimate. The degree to which we may ultimately be responsible for the particular matters reflected in the reserve is uncertain. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for customer incentive programs relating to our glyphosate products. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability. We engage in manufacturing, seed production, research and development, and sales in many parts of the world. Although we have operations in virtually every region, our sales outside the United States in fiscal year 2010 were principally to customers in Brazil, Argentina, Canada, Mexico and India. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world generally have a more significant effect on our operations than developments in other places. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values and foreign currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; governmental pricing directives; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Acts of terror or war may impair our ability to operate in particular countries or regions, and may impede the flow of goods and services between countries. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency, or sell their commodity at prevailing international prices, and we may be unable to collect receivables from such customers. Further, changes in exchange rates may affect our net income, the book value of our assets outside the United States, and our shareowners equity. 12 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A In the event of any diversion of managements attention to matters related to acquisitions or any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with integrating acquired operations, our business, and in particular our results of operations and financial condition, may be harmed. We have recently completed acquisitions and we expect to make additional acquisitions. We must fit such acquisitions into our long term growth strategies to generate sufficient value to justify their cost. Acquisitions also present other challenges, including geographical coordination, personnel integration and retention of key management personnel, systems integration and the reconciliation of corporate cultures. Those operations could divert managements attention from our business or cause a temporary interruption of or loss of momentum in our business and the loss of key personnel from the acquired companies. Fluctuations in commodity prices can increase our costs and decrease our sales. We contract production with multiple growers at fair value and retain the seed in inventory until it is sold. These purchases constitute a significant portion of the manufacturing costs for our seeds. Additionally, our chemical manufacturing operations use chemical intermediates and energy, which are subject to increases in price as the costs of oil and natural gas increase. Accordingly, increases in commodity prices may negatively affect our cost of goods sold or cause us to increase seed or chemical prices, which could adversely affect our sales. We use hedging strategies, and most of our raw material supply agreements contain escalation factors, designed to mitigate the risk of short term changes in commodity prices. However, we are unable to avoid the risk of medium and long term increases. Farmers incomes are also affected by commodity prices; as a result, fluctuations in commodity prices could have a negative effect on their ability to purchase our seed and chemical products. Compliance with quality controls and regulations affecting our manufacturing may be costly, and failure to comply may result in decreased sales, penalties and remediation obligations. Because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes and engage in mining operations, we are subject to risks of accidental environmental contamination, and therefore to potential personal injury claims, remediation expenses and penalties. Should a catastrophic event occur at any of our facilities, we could face significant reconstruction or remediation costs, penalties, third party liability and loss of production capacity, which could affect our sales. In addition, lapses in quality or other manufacturing controls could affect our sales and result in claims for defective products. Our ability to match our production to the level of product demanded by farmers or our licensed customers has a significant effect on our sales, costs, and growth potential. Farmers decisions are affected by market, economic and weather conditions that are not known in advance. Failure to provide distributors with enough inventories of our products will reduce our current sales. However, product inventory levels at our distributors may reduce sales in future periods, as those distributor inventories are worked down. In addition, inadequate distributor liquidity could affect distributors ability to pay for our products and, therefore, affect our sales or our ability to collect on our receivables. International glyphosate manufacturing capacity has increased in the past few years. The price of this glyphosate will impact the selling price and margin of Roundup brands and also on our third party sourcing business. Our ability to issue short term debt to fund our cash flow requirements and the cost of such debt may affect our financial condition. We regularly extend credit to our customers in certain areas of the world so that they can buy agricultural products at the beginning of their growing seasons. Because of these credit practices and the seasonality of our sales, we may need to issue short term debt at certain times of the year to fund our cash flow requirements. The amount of short term debt will be greater to the extent that we are unable to collect customer receivables when due and to manage our costs and expenses. Any downgrade in our credit rating, or other limitation on our access to short term financing or refinancing, would increase our interest cost and adversely affect our profitability. 13 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Weather, natural disasters and accidents may significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. Weather conditions and natural disasters can affect the timing of planting and the acreage planted, as well as yields and commodity prices. In turn, the quality, cost and volumes of the seed that we are able to produce and sell will be affected, which will affect our sales and profitability. Natural disasters or industrial accidents could also affect our manufacturing facilities, or those of our major suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs and our ability to meet supply. One of our major U.S. glyphosate manufacturing facilities is located in Luling, Louisiana, which is an area subject to hurricanes. In addition, several of our key raw material and utility suppliers have production assets in the U.S. gulf coast region and are also susceptible to damage risk from hurricanes. Hawaii, which is also subject to hurricanes, is a major seeds and traits location for our pipeline products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At Aug. 31, 2010, there were no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC related to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We and our subsidiaries own or lease manufacturing facilities, laboratories, seed production and other agricultural facilities, office space, warehouses, and other land parcels in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and Africa. Our general offices, which we own, are located in St. Louis County, Missouri. These office and research facilities are principal properties. Additional principal properties used by the Seeds and Genomics segment include seed production and conditioning plants at Boone, Grinnell and Williamsburg, Iowa; Constantine, Michigan; Enkhuizen and Bergschenhoek, Netherlands; Illiopolis, Waterman and Farmer City, Illinois; Remington, Indiana; Kearney and Waco, Nebraska; Oxnard, California; Peyrehorade and Tr&egrave;bes, France; Rojas, Argentina; Sinesti, Romania; and Uberl&acirc;ndia, Brazil; and research sites at Ankeny, Iowa; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Maui, Hawaii; Middleton, Wisconsin; Mystic, Connecticut; and Woodland, California. We own all of these properties, except the one in Maui. The Seeds and Genomics segment also uses seed foundation and production facilities, breeding facilities, and genomics and other research laboratories at various other locations worldwide. The Agricultural Productivity segment has principal chemicals manufacturing facilities at Antwerp, Belgium; Cama&ccedil;ari, Brazil; Luling, Louisiana; Muscatine, Iowa; S&atilde;o Jos&eacute; dos Campos, Brazil; Soda Springs, Idaho; and Z&aacute;rate, Argentina. We own all of these properties, except the one in Antwerp, Belgium, which is subject to a lease for the land underlying the facility. 14 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A We believe that our principal properties are suitable and adequate for their use. Our facilities generally have sufficient capacity for our existing needs and expected near term growth. Expansion projects are undertaken as necessary to meet future needs. In particular, we have undertaken significant multiyear projects to expand our corn production facilities in North America in anticipation of increased demand for our corn seed and completed projects that increased capacity and improved the process at our Luling, Louisiana, glyphosate facility. Use of these facilities may vary with seasonal, economic and other business conditions, but none of the principal properties is substantially idle. In certain instances, we have leased portions of sites not required for current operations to third parties. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, as well as proceedings that we have considered to be material under SEC regulations. These include proceedings to which we are party in our own name and proceedings to which our former parent Pharmacia Corporation or its former subsidiary Solutia Inc. is a party but that we manage and for which we are responsible. Information regarding certain material proceedings and the possible effects on our business of proceedings we are defending is disclosed in Note 25 under the subheading Environmental and Litigation Liabilities Litigation and is incorporated by reference herein. Following is information regarding other material proceedings for which we are responsible. Patent and Commercial Proceedings On Dec. 23, 2008, we entered into a dispute resolution process with Pioneer Hi Bred International, Inc. (Pioneer), a wholly owned subsidiary of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont), to address issues regarding the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology. Pioneer has announced plans to combine or stack their Optimum &reg; GAT &reg; trait in soybeans with our patented first generation Roundup Ready technology, contrary to their previously disclosed plans to discontinue use of soybean varieties containing our technology and pursue the Optimum&reg; GAT&reg; trait alone. We believe that Pioneer is not authorized to make this genetic combination, and we are seeking to prevent non consensual use of our proprietary technology. On May 4, 2009, following unsuccessful discussions, Monsanto filed suit against DuPont and Pioneer in Federal District Court in St. Louis asserting patent infringement and breach of contract claims to prevent the unauthorized use of our Roundup Ready technology in corn and soybeans. On June 16, 2009, the defendants filed an answer and counterclaim seeking injunctive relief, damages and specific performance asserting a claim of license as well as the invalidity or unenforceability of the patent asserted by Monsanto, and also claiming alleged anticompetitive behavior relating to traits for corn and soybeans. The court, on Sept. 16, 2009, severed the antitrust defense interposed by DuPont for a separate, subsequent trial following our case for patent infringement and license breach. On Oct. 23, 2009, the Court heard our motion for judgment on the pleadings to declare DuPont and Pioneer in breach of their corn and soybean licensing agreements with us. On Jan. 15, 2010, the Court granted our motion declaring that DuPont and Pioneer are not licensed to create a product containing Roundup Ready and Optimum&reg; GAT&reg; traits stacked in combination. The remaining patent claims are set for trial on Oct. 17, 2011. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. Two purported class action suits were filed against us on Sept. 26, 2006, supposedly on behalf of all farmers who purchased our Roundup brand herbicides in the United States for commercial agricultural purposes since Sept. 26, 2002. Plaintiffs essentially allege that we have monopolized the market for glyphosate for commercial agricultural purposes. Plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages and injunctive relief. In late February 2007, three additional suits were filed, alleging similar claims. All of these suits were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. On July 18, 2007, the court ruled that any such suit had to be filed in federal or state court in Missouri; the court granted our motion to dismiss the two original cases. On Aug. 8, 2007, plaintiffs in the remaining three cases voluntarily dismissed their complaints, which have not been re filed. On Aug. 10, 2007, the same set of counsel filed a parallel action in federal court in San Antonio, Texas, on behalf of a retailer of glyphosate named Texas Grain. Plaintiffs seek to certify a national class of all entities that purchased glyphosate directly from us since August 2003. The magistrate judge issued his recommendation to the District Court on Aug. 7, 2009, denying class certification. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. 15 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Governmental Proceedings and Undertakings On Sept. 17, 2007, the EPA issued a Notice of Violation to us, alleging violations of the Clean Water Act at the South Rasmussen Mine near Soda Springs, Idaho. The EPA has asserted that the alleged violations may subject us to civil penalties. We are working with the EPA to reach a resolution of this matter. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On April 18, 2005, we received a subpoena from the Illinois Attorney General and have produced documents relating to the prices and terms upon which we license technology for genetically modified seeds, and upon which we sell or license genetically modified seeds to farmers. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On Sept. 4, 2007, we received a civil investigative demand from the Iowa Attorney General seeking information regarding the production and marketing of glyphosate and the development, production, marketing, or licensing of soybean, corn, or cotton germplasm containing transgenic traits. Iowa coordinated this inquiry with several other states. We have fully cooperated with this investigation and complied with all requests. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. We have reported to the EPA that in prior years sales and planting of our Bollgard and Bollgard II cotton products occurred in ten Texas counties where the registrations had included relevant restrictions. On July 1, 2010, we finalized a settlement with the EPA, without admitting liability, and paid a civil penalty of an immaterial amount. On Dec. 2, 2005, the Federal Revenue Service of the Ministry of Finance of Brazil issued a tax assessment against our wholly owned subsidiary, Monsanto do Brasil Ltda., challenging the tax treatment of $575 million of notes issued in 1998 on the basis that the transactions involving the notes represented contributions to the capital of Monsanto do Brasil rather than funding through issuance of notes. The assessment denies tax deductions for approximately $1.2 billion (subject to currency exchange rates) of interest expense and currency exchange losses that were claimed by Monsanto do Brasil under the notes. The assessment seeks payment of approximately $243 million (subject to currency exchange rates) of tax, penalties and interest related to the notes, and would preclude Monsanto do Brasil from using a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $1.1 billion (subject to currency exchange rates). The issuance of the notes was properly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil and we believe that there is no basis in law for this tax assessment. On Dec. 29, 2005, Monsanto do Brasil filed an appeal of this assessment with the Federal Revenue Service. On Oct. 28, 2008, the company received a partially favorable decision issued by the first level of Administrative Court. The Court reduced the assessed penalty from 150% to 75%, respectively, from $82 million to $41 million (each subject to currency exchange rates) and maintained the tax and interest. On Nov. 26, 2008, we filed an appeal before the second level of Administrative Court with regard to the adverse portion of the decision by the first level of Administrative Court. The Federal Revenue Service also appealed the portion of the decision favorable to Monsanto do Brasil. On Sept. 17, 2010, the appeals were assigned to the Administrative Council of Tax Appeals. The court date is pending. The company continues to believe that there is no basis in law for this tax assessment. Under the terms of a tax sharing agreement concluded with Pharmacia at the time of our separation from Pharmacia, Pharmacia would be responsible for a portion of any liability incurred by virtue of the tax assessment. As noted, certain dollar amounts have been calculated based on an exchange rate of 1.7 Brazilian reais per U.S. dollar, and will fluctuate with exchange rates in the future. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On Jan. 12, 2010, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) issued a civil investigative demand to Monsanto requesting information on our soybean traits business. Among other things, the DOJ has requested information regarding our plans for and licensing of soybean seed containing Roundup Ready or Roundup Ready 2 Yield traits. We are cooperating with this request. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. Securities and Derivative Proceedings On July 29, 2010, a purported class action suit, styled Rochester Laborers Pension Fund v. Monsanto Co., et al., was filed against us and three of our past and present executive officers in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The suit alleges that defendants violated the federal securities laws by making false or misleading statements between Jan. 7, 2009, and May 27, 2010, regarding our earnings guidance for fiscal 2009 and 2010 and the anticipated future performance of our Roundup business. The alleged class consists of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired Monsanto common 16 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A stock between Jan. 7, 2009, and May 27, 2010. Plaintiff claims that these statements artificially inflated the price of our stock and that purchasers of our stock during the relevant period were damaged when the stock price later declined. Plaintiff seeks the award of unspecified amount of damages on behalf of the alleged class, counsel fees and costs. We believe we have meritorious legal positions and will continue to represent our interests vigorously in this matter. On Sept. 27, 2010, three members of the alleged class moved to be appointed the lead plaintiff in the action. Those motions have not yet been ruled upon. On Sept. 28, 2010, plaintiff Rochester Laborers Pension Fund advised the Court that it does not intend to file a motion for appointment as lead plaintiff, but is willing to serve as lead plaintiff should the movants fail to satisfy the requirements for doing so. On Aug. 4 and 5, 2010, two purported derivative suits styled Espinoza v. Grant, et al. and Clark v. Grant, et al., were filed on our behalf against our directors and three of our past and present executive officers in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, Missouri. Asserting claims for breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and unjust enrichment, plaintiffs allege that our directors themselves made or allowed Monsanto to make the same allegedly false and misleading statements at issue in the purported class action. Plaintiffs also assert a claim arising out of the acceleration of certain stock options held by one of our former executive officers upon his retirement, as well as a claim based on one directors sale of Monsanto stock while allegedly in possession of material, non public information relating to our earnings guidance. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and the award of unspecified amounts of damages and restitution for Monsanto, counsel fees and costs. Plaintiffs have moved for an order consolidating the Espinoza and Clark actions and appointing lead and liaison counsel. The parties have stipulated to the consolidation of the Espinoza and Clark actions and submitted the stipulation to the Court for its approval. Defendants have moved for a stay of these actions in favor of the proposed federal securities class action (described above) and the federal derivative action (described below). The parties have stipulated to a stay of these actions pending resolution of motions to dismiss expected to be filed in the federal actions, subject to specified exceptions, and have submitted their stipulation to the Court for its approval. On Aug. 30, 2010, another purported derivative action styled Kurland v. AtLee, et al., was filed on our behalf against our directors in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. Asserting claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, corporate waste, unjust enrichment and insider selling and misappropriation under Delaware law, the complaint contains allegations similar to the two state court derivative actions described above relating to the same allegedly false and misleading statements and a directors sale of shares, and adds allegations relating to a senior executives sale of Monsanto stock while allegedly in possession of material, non public information. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and the award of unspecified amounts of compensatory and exemplary damages, counsel fees and costs. On Sept. 3, 2010, defendants in the Rochester securities class action described above moved for consolidation and coordination of that action with the Kurland derivative action. On Sept. 28, 2010, the Court denied this motion, stating that pretrial coordination of the federal actions should occur. On Oct. 11, 2010, a second purported derivative action styled Stone v. Bachmann, et al., was filed on our behalf against certain of our directors. The allegations made and relief sought in the Stone action are substantially similar to the allegations made and relief sought in the Kurland action. On Oct. 13, 2010, a third purported derivative action, styled Fagin v. AtLee, et al., was filed on our behalf against our directors in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The allegations made and relief sought in the Fagin action are substantially similar to the allegations made and relief sought in both the Kurland and Stone actions. ITEM 4. [Removed and Reserved.] Executive Officers See Part III Item 10 of this Report on Form 10 K/A for information about our Executive Officers. 17 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Monsantos common stock is traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange, under the symbol MON. The number of shareowners of record as of Oct. 21, 2010, was 40,580. On June 27, 2006, the board of directors approved a two for one split of the companys common shares. The additional shares resulting from the stock split were paid on July 28, 2006, to shareowners of record on July 7, 2006. All share and per share information herein reflects this stock split. The original dividend rate adopted by the board of directors following the initial public offering (IPO) in October 2000 was $0.06. The board of directors increased the companys quarterly dividend rate in April 2003 to $0.065, in May 2004 to $0.0725, in December 2004 to $0.085, in December 2005 to $0.10, in December 2006 to $0.125, in August 2007 to $0.175, in June 2008 to $0.24, in January 2009 to $0.265 and in August 2010 to $0.28. The following table sets forth dividend declarations, as well as the high and low sales prices for Monsantos common stock, for the fiscal year 2010 and 2009 quarters indicated. Dividends per Share 1stQuarter 2nd Quarter 3rdQuarter 4th Quarter Fiscal Year 2010 $ $0.53(1) $ $0.55(1) $1.08 2009 $ $0.51(2) $ $0.53(2) $1.04 Common Stock Price 1stQuarter 2ndQuarter 3rdQuarter 4thQuarter Fiscal Year 2010 High $ 84.36 $87.06 $74.80 $62.29 $87.06 Low 66.57 70.53 48.16 44.61 44.61 2009 High $121.32 $87.32 $93.35 $87.40 $121.32 Low 63.47 65.60 69.62 70.08 63.47 (1) During the period from Dec. 1, 2009, through Feb. 28, 2010, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.265 per share on Dec. 7, 2009, and $0.265 per share on Jan. 26, 2010. During the period from June 1, 2010, through Aug. 31, 2010, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.265 per share on June 9, 2010, and $0.28 per share on Aug. 4, 2010. (2) During the period from Dec. 1, 2008, through Feb. 28, 2009, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.24 per share on Dec. 8, 2008, and $0.265 per share on Jan. 14, 2009. During the period from June 1, 2009, through Aug. 31, 2009, Monsanto declared two dividends, $0.265 per share on June 9, 2009, and $0.265 per share on Aug. 5, 2009. 18 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table summarizes purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 by Monsanto and affiliated purchasers, pursuant to SEC rules. Period (a) Total Number ofShares Purchased (b) Average Price Paidper Share(1) (c) Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly Announced Plansor Programs (d) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs June 2010: June 1, 2010, through June 30, 2010 204,558(2) $49.63 204,400 $ 23,090,661 July 2010: July 1, 2010, through July 31, 2010 356,400(3) $53.17 288,900 $1,007,656,927 August 2010: Aug. 1, 2010, through Aug. 31, 2010 149,600 $58.17 149,600 $ 998,954,568 Total 710,558 $53.20 642,900 $ 998,954,568 (1) The average price paid per share is calculated on a trade date basis and excludes commission. (2) Includes 158 shares withheld to cover the withholding taxes upon the vesting of restricted stock. (3) Includes 67,500 shares purchased by affiliated purchasers. In April 2008, the board of directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $800 million of the companys common stock over a three year period. This repurchase program commenced Dec. 23, 2008, and was completed on Aug. 24, 2010. In June 2010, the board of directors authorized a new repurchase program of up to an additional $1 billion of the companys common stock over a three year period beginning July 1, 2010. This repurchase program commenced Aug. 24, 2010, and will expire on Aug. 24, 2013. There were no other publicly announced plans outstanding as of Aug. 31, 2010. 19 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A Stock Price Performance Graph The graph below compares the performance of Monsantos common stock with the performance of the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (a broad based market index) and a peer group index over a 60 month period extending through the end of the 2010 fiscal year. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on Sept. 1, 2005, in our common stock, in the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the peer group index, and that all dividends were reinvested. Because we are involved both in the agricultural products business and in the seeds and genomics business, no published peer group accurately mirrors our portfolio of businesses. Accordingly, we created a peer group index that includes Bayer AG ADR, Dow Chemical Company, DuPont (E.I.) de Nemours and Company, BASF AG and Syngenta AG. The Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the peer group index are included for comparative purposes only. They do not necessarily reflect managements opinion that such indices are an appropriate measure of the relative performance of the stock involved, and they are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. In accordance with the rules of the SEC, the information contained in the Stock Price Performance Graph on this page shall not be deemed to be soliciting material, or to be filed with the SEC or subject to the SECs Regulation 14A, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, except to the extent that Monsanto specifically requests that the information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act. 20 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA As discussed in the Explanatory Note and Note 31 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Amended Filing, we have restated our previously issued audited consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2010 and 2009; accordingly, all affected amounts included in the following Selected Financial Data have been revised. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended Aug. 31, (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2010Restated 2009Restated 2008 2007 2006 Operating Results: Net sales(1) $ 10,483 $ 11,685 $ 11,365 $ 8,349 $ 7,065 Income from operations 1,603 3,061 2,721 1,409 1,139 Income from continuing operations(6) 1,111 2,105 2,027 925 688 Income on discontinued operations(2) 4 11 17 80 24 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax benefit(3) (6 ) Net income attributable to Monsanto Company 1,096 2,092 2,024 993 689 Basic Earnings (Loss) per Share Attributable to Monsanto Company:(4)(5) Income from continuing operations $ 2.01 $ 3.80 $ 3.66 $ 1.68 $ 1.24 Income on discontinued operations(2) 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.14 0.04 Cumulative effect of accounting change(3) (0.01 ) Net income 2.02 3.82 3.69 1.82 1.27 Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share Attributable to Monsanto Company:(4)(5) Income from continuing operations $ 1.99 $ 3.75 $ 3.59 $ 1.64 $ 1.22 Income on discontinued operations(2) 0.02 0.03 0.15 0.04 Cumulative effect of accounting change(3) (0.01 ) Net income 1.99 3.77 3.62 1.79 1.25 Financial Position at end of Period: Total assets $ 17,852 $ 17,831 $ 17,991 $ 12,983 $ 11,728 Working capital(7) 3,494 4,056 3,170 2,009 3,182 Current ratio(7) 1.98:1 2.09:1 1.71:1 1.65:1 2.40:1 Long term debt 1,862 1,724 1,792 1,150 1,639 Debt to capital ratio(8) 17 % 15 % 16 % 16 % 20 % Other Data:(4) Dividends per share $ 1.08 $ 1.04 $ 0.83 $ 0.55 $ 0.40 Stock price per share: High $ 87.06 $ 121.32 $ 145.80 $ 70.88 $ 47.58 Low $ 44.61 $ 63.47 $ 69.22 $ 42.75 $ 27.80 End of period $ 52.65 $ 83.88 $ 114.25 $ 69.74 $ 47.44 Basic shares outstanding(5) 543.7 547.1 548.9 544.8 540.6 Diluted shares outstanding(5) 550.8 555.6 559.7 555.3 551.9 See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information regarding the factors that have affected or may affect the comparability of our business results. (1) In 2006 and 2007, American Seeds acquired several regional seed companies. In 2007, we acquired Delta and Pine Land Company (DPL) and divested the Stoneville&reg; and NexGen&reg; cotton seed brands and related business assets. In 2008, we acquired De Ruiter, Cristiani, and Agroeste and entered into an agreement to divest the Dairy business. In 2009, we acquired Aly Participacoes Ltda. and WestBred, LLC and divested the Dairy business. See Note 4 Business Combinations for further details of these acquisitions and Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details of these divestitures. (2) In 2006, we recorded an additional write down of $3 million aftertax related to the remaining assets associated with the environmental technologies businesses. In 2007, we sold the Stoneville and NexGen businesses as part of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) approval for the acquisition of DPL. In 2008, we entered into an agreement to sell the Dairy business. Accordingly, these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations in the Statements of Consolidated Operations for all periods presented above. See Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details of these completed dispositions. (3) In 2006, we adopted the Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). In connection with the adoption of this new accounting guidance, we recorded a cumulative effect of accounting change of $6 million aftertax. 21 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A (4) For all periods presented, the share and per share amounts (including stock price) reflect the effect of the two for one stock split (in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend) that was completed on July 28, 2006. (5) Effective Sept. 1, 2009, we retrospectively adopted a FASB issued standard that requires unvested share based payment awards that contain rights to receive non forfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents to be included in the two class method of computing earnings per share as described in the Earnings Per Share topic of the ASC. (6) Effective Sept. 1, 2009, we retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance related to the Consolidation topic of the ASC. (7) Working capital is total current assets less total current liabilities; current ratio represents total current assets divided by total current liabilities. (8) Debt to capital ratio is the sum of short term and long term debt, divided by the sum of short term and long term debt and shareowners equity. 22 Table of Contents MONSANTO COMPANY 2010 FORM 10 K/A ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As discussed in the Explanatory Note and Note 31 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, we have restated our previously issued audited consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2010 and 2009; accordingly, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations have been revised for the effects of the restatement. OVERVIEW Background Monsanto Company, along with its subsidiaries, is a leading global provider of agricultural products for farmers. Our seeds, biotechnology trait products, and herbicides provide farmers with solutions that improve productivity, reduce the costs of farming, and produce better foods for consumers and better feed for animals. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics and Agricultural Productivity. Through our Seeds and Genomics segment, we produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB, Asgrow, Deltapine, Seminis and De Ruiter, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We also provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. Through our Agricultural Productivity segment, we manufacture Roundup and Harness brand herbicides and other herbicides. Approximately 43 percent of our total company sales, 37 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segment sales, and 57 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segment sales originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into an agreement to divest the animal agricultural products business (the Dairy business). This transaction was consummated on Oct. 1, 2008. As a result, financial data for this business has been presented as discontinued operations as outlined below. The financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the provisions of the Property, Plant and Equipment topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). Accordingly, for all periods presented herein, the Statements of Consolidated Operations and Consolidated Financial Position have been conformed to this presentation. The Dairy business was previously reported as part of the Agricultural Productivity segment. See Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements referred to throughout this MD&A are included in Part II 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As discussed in the Explanatory Note and Note 31 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, we have restated our previously issued audited consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2010 and 2009; accordingly, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations have been revised for the effects of the restatement. OVERVIEW Background Monsanto Company, along with its subsidiaries, is a leading global provider of agricultural products for farmers. Our seeds, biotechnology trait products, and herbicides provide farmers with solutions that improve productivity, reduce the costs of farming, and produce better foods for consumers and better feed for animals. We manage our business in two segments: Seeds and Genomics and Agricultural Productivity. Through our Seeds and Genomics segment, we produce leading seed brands, including DEKALB, Asgrow, Deltapine, Seminis and De Ruiter, and we develop biotechnology traits that assist farmers in controlling insects and weeds. We also provide other seed companies with genetic material and biotechnology traits for their seed brands. Through our Agricultural Productivity segment, we manufacture Roundup and Harness brand herbicides and other herbicides. Approximately 43 percent of our total company sales, 37 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segment sales, and 57 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segment sales originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into an agreement to divest the animal agricultural products business (the Dairy business). This transaction was consummated on Oct. 1, 2008. As a result, financial data for this business has been presented as discontinued operations as outlined below. The financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the provisions of the Property, Plant and Equipment topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). Accordingly, for all periods presented herein, the Statements of Consolidated Operations and Consolidated Financial Position have been conformed to this presentation. The Dairy business was previously reported as part of the Agricultural Productivity segment. See Note 29 Discontinued Operations for further details. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with Monsantos consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements referred to throughout this MD&A are included in Part II 
 
