FILE:HNZ/HNZ-8K-20030106171507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): December 20, 2002 H. J. HEINZ COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Pennsylvania 1-3385 25-0542520 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, 15219 Pennsylvania (Zip Code) (Address of principal executive offices) 412-456-5700 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 2. ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS On December 20, 2002, Heinz transferred to a wholly-owned subsidiary ("SKF Foods") assets and liabilities of its U.S. and Canadian pet food and pet snacks, U.S. tuna, U.S. retail private label soup and private label gravy, College Inn broth and U.S. infant feeding businesses and distributed all of the shares of SKF Foods common stock on a pro rata basis to its shareholders. Immediately thereafter, SKF Foods merged with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Del Monte Foods Company ("Del Monte") resulting in SKF Foods becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Del Monte (the "Merger"). In connection with the Merger, each share of SKF Foods common stock was automatically converted into shares of Del Monte common stock according to an exchange rate equal to .4466 that resulted in the fully diluted Del Monte common stock being held 74.5% by Heinz shareholders and 25.5% by the Del Monte stockholders. As a result of the transaction, Heinz received approximately $1.1 billion in cash that will be used to retire debt.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of Item 7 of Form 8-K, Heinz is furnishing pro forma financial information in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5 and 99.6.
Exhibits. Exhibit Description Number 99.1 Unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income for the H. J. Heinz Company for the six months ended October 30, 2002. 99.2 Unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income for the H. J. Heinz Company for the six months ended October 31, 2001. 99.3 Unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income for the H. J. Heinz Company for the fiscal year ended May 1, 2002. 99.4 Unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income for the H. J. Heinz Company for the fiscal year ended May 2, 2001. 99.5 Unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income for the H. J. Heinz Company for the fiscal year ended May 3, 2000. 99.6 Unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet for the H. J. Heinz Company as of October 30, 2002.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Date: January 6, 2003 By /s/ Arthur Winkleblack -------------------------- Arthur Winkleblack Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) Date: January 6, 2003 By /s/ Edward McMenamin -------------------------- Vice President-Finance (Principal Accounting Officer)
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1 H. J. HEINZ COMPANY INTRODUCTION TO THE UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements of the H. J. Heinz Company ("Heinz") adjust the historical financial statements of Heinz to give pro forma effect of the following: -- The transfer of certain assets and liabilities of Heinz's U.S. tuna, U.S. and Canadian pet food and pet snacks, U.S. private label soup and private label gravy, College Inn broths and U.S. infant-feeding businesses to SKF Foods. -- The repayment of approximately $1.1 billion of debt with the cash Heinz received as a result of the merger of SKF Foods, immediately following the transfer, with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Del Monte. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet has been prepared as if the transaction occurred as of October 30, 2002. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of income have been prepared as if the transaction occurred as of the beginning of the periods presented. The unaudited pro forma statements for the periods presented do not purport to represent what Heinz's results of operations or financial position would actually have been had the transaction occurred on the dates noted above, or to project Heinz's results of operations for any future periods. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and upon certain assumptions that Heinz management believes are reasonable under the circumstances. The adjustments are directly attributable to the transaction and are expected to have a continuing impact on the financial position and results of operations of Heinz. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and related notes thereto of Heinz included in the 2002 Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and the Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 30, 2002. H.J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Six months ended October 30, 2002 NOTE: For the six months ended October 30, 2002 there were $28.5 million pretax ($0.05 earnings per share) of special items in the historical results which all relate to continuing operations. See Heinz's Quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 30, 2002 for further details.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Six months ended October 30, 2002 (a) Represents the revenues of Heinz's U.S. tuna, U.S. and Canadian pet food and pet snacks, U.S. private label soup and private label gravy, College Inn broth and U.S. infant feeding businesses, all of which were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (b) Represents costs directly attributable to the businesses described in (a) above that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (c) Represents the interest income directly attributable to the businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (d) Represents the interest expense on approximately $1.1 billion of debt that was repaid as a result of the transaction. Based on the outstanding floating rate debt, a variation in interest rates of 1/8% would cause interest expense to fluctuate by an insignificant amount annually. (e) Represents other miscellaneous expenses directly attributable to those businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (f) Represents the tax provision associated with the income before taxes that was transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction.

Exhibit 99.2 H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Six months ended October 31, 2001 NOTE: For the six months ended October 31, 2001 there were $16.2 million pretax ($0.04 earnings per share) of special items in the historical results of which $7.9 million pretax ($0.02 earnings per share) were related to SKF Foods and $8.3 million pretax ($0.02 earnings per share) to continuing operations. See Heinz's Quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 30, 2002 for further details.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Six months ended October 31, 2001 (a) Represents the revenues of Heinz's U.S. tuna, U.S. and Canadian pet food and pet snacks, U.S. private label soup and private label gravy, College Inn broth and U.S. infant feeding businesses, all of which were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (b) Represents costs directly attributable to the businesses described in (a) above that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (c) Represents the interest income directly attributable to the businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (d) Represents the interest expense on approximately $1.1 billion of debt that was paid as a result of the transaction. Based on the outstanding floating rate debt, a variation interest rates of 1/8% would cause interest expense to fluctuate approximately $0.2 million annually. (e) Represents other miscellaneous expenses directly attributable to those businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (f) Represents the tax provision associated with the income taxes that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction.

Exhibit 99.3 H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Fiscal Year Ended May 1, 2002 NOTE: For the year ended May 1, 2002, there were $17.9 million pretax ($0.03 earnings per share) of special items in the historical results of which $5.5 million pretax ($0.00 earnings per share) were related to SKF Foods and $12.4 million pretax ($0.03 earnings per share) to continuing operations. See Heinz's Annual Report filed on Form 10-K for the year ended May 1, 2002 for further details.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Fiscal Year Ended May 1, 2002 (a) Represents the revenues of Heinz's U.S. tuna, U.S. and Canadian pet food and pet snacks, U.S. private label soup and private label gravy, College Inn broth and U.S. infant feeding businesses, all of which were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (b) Represents costs directly attributable to the businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (c) Represents the interest income directly attributable to the businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (d) Represents the interest expense on approximately $1.1 billion of debt that was repaid as a result of the transaction. Based on the outstanding floating rate debt, a variation in interest rates of 1/8% would cause interest expense to fluctuate approximately $0.1 million annually. (e) Represents other miscellaneous expenses directly attributable to those businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (f) Represents the tax provision associated with the income before taxes that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction.

Exhibit 99.4 H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro-Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Fiscal Year Ended May 2, 2001 NOTE: For the year ended May 2, 2001, there were $706.0 million pretax ($1.19 earnings per share) of special items in the historical results of which $339.3 million pretax ($0.72 earnings per share) were related to SKF Foods and $366.7 million pretax ($0.47 earnings per share) to continuing operations. See Heinz's Annual report filed on Form 10-K for the year ended May 1, 2002 for further details.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Fiscal Year Ended May 2, 2001 (a) Represents the revenues of Heinz's U.S. tuna, U.S. and Canadian pet food and pet snacks, U.S. private label soup and private label gravy, College Inn broth and U.S. infant feeding businesses, all of which were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (b) Represents costs directly attributable to the businesses described in (a) above that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (c) Represents the interest income directly attributable to the businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (d) Represents the interest expense on approximately $1.1 billion of debt that was repaid as a result of the transaction. Based on the outstanding floating rate debt, a variation in interest rates of 1/8% would cause interest expense to fluctuate approximately $1.4 million annually. (e) Represents other miscellaneous expenses directly attributable to those businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (f) Represents the tax provision associated with the income before taxes that was transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (g) Represents the cumulative effect on prior years from the adoption of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements" attributable to the businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction.

Exhibit 99.5 H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Fiscal Year Ended May 3, 2000 NOTE: For the year ended May 3, 2000, there was a ($72.9) million pretax benefit, however a $0.05 earnings per share after tax charge for special items in the historical results. A charge of $128.7 million pretax ($0.27 earnings per share) was related to SKF Foods and a benefit of ($201.6) million pretax ($(0.22) earnings per share) related to continuing operations. See Heinz's Annual report filed on Form 10-K for the year ended May 1, 2002 for further details.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income Fiscal Year Ended May 3, 2000 (a) Represents the revenues of Heinz's U.S. tuna, U.S. and Canadian pet food and pet snacks, U.S. private label soup and private label gravy, College Inn broth and U.S. infant feeding businesses, all of which were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (b) Represents costs directly attributable to the businesses described in (a) above that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (c) Represents the interest income directly attributable to the businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (d) Represents the interest expense on approximately $1.1 billion of debt that was repaid as a result of the transaction. Based on the outstanding floating rate debt, a variation in interest rates of 1/8% would cause interest expense to fluctuate approximately $1.4 million annually. (e) Represents other miscellaneous expenses directly attributable to those businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (f) Represents the tax provision associated with the income before taxes that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction.

Exhibit 99.6 H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet October 30, 2002
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet October 30, 2002 (a) Represents the assets and liabilities directly attributable to the businesses that were transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction. (b) The repayment of approximately $1.1 billion of debt with the cash received from Del Monte as a result of the transaction. (c) Represents the adjustment to retained earnings as a result of the net assets being transferred to SKF Foods as a result of the transaction.


