FILE:HNZ/HNZ-8K-20060719164252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction a.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     H.J. Heinz Company's press release dated July 19, 2006 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01(d). Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
"The Good Food Company"
FOR RELEASE UPON RECEIPT
     
Heinz Projects:
 H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE:HNZ) announced today that it anticipates excellent results for the first quarter ending August 2, 2006, with strong growth in earnings per share, operating income, sales and volume, and confirms it is comfortably on track to meet its full-year EPS guidance of $2.35.
PITTSBURGH, July 19, 2006
The Company anticipates continued strong sales performance in the first quarter, with volume growth of more than 3% and overall sales growth in excess of 6%, driven by good performance in U.S. Consumer Products, Canada, Italy, Indonesia and Australia. The Company expects operating income growth of approximately 10% from continuing operations (excluding prior year special items of $32 million). EPS is expected to increase close to 20% when compared to last year's $0.47 from continuing operations (excluding special items of $0.07 that reduced EPS), and approximately 40% when compared to reported results from continuing operations. As we noted on June 1, the effective tax rate for FY07 will fluctuate throughout the year, with the effective rate for the first quarter below the 30% full year forecast.
Heinz Chairman, President and CEO William R. Johnson said: "We are pleased with the strong start to this fiscal year, with EPS expected to be above current consensus for the first quarter. The transformative steps we have taken over the past four years are paying off and driving this year's performance. The first quarter underscores our confidence in the full year EPS outlook of $2.35 and as a result we anticipate the ability to support additional innovations in our core businesses in order to sustain our growth in the coming years."
Heinz's U.S. Consumer Products business continues to show strong momentum, with sales growth projected in excess of 8% and double-digit operating income growth. Importantly, Europe and the Foodservice segments are expected to deliver solid single-digit profit growth, and the Asia Pacific segment is expected to deliver operating income growth in excess of 25%, driven by strong results in Indonesia, China and Australia.
H.J. Heinz Company, P.O. Box 57, Pittsburgh 15230-0057
 
Heinz will host a Webcast of the Company's first Quarter results on Thursday August 31, 2006 at 8:30 AM EDT.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words "will," "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates" or similar expressions and include our expectations as to future revenue growth, earnings, capital expenditures and other spending, as well as anticipated reductions in spending. These forward-looking statements reflect management's view of future events and financial performance. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which may be beyond Heinz's control, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from such statements include, but are not limited to:
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the securities laws.
On July 10, 2006, Heinz began the process of mailing its definitive proxy statement, together with a WHITE proxy card. Shareholders are strongly advised to read Heinz's proxy statement as it contains important information. Shareholders may obtain an additional copy of Heinz's definitive proxy statement and any other documents filed by Heinz with the Securities and Exchange Commission for free at the Internet Web site maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission at . Copies of the definitive proxy statement are available for free at Heinz's Internet Web site at or by writing to H. J. Heinz Company, World Headquarters, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219. In addition, copies of Heinz's proxy materials may be requested by contacting our proxy solicitor, MacKenzie Partners, Inc. at (800) 322-2885 toll-free or by email at . Detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of individuals who are participants in the solicitation of proxies of Heinz's shareholders is available in Heinz's Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 18, 2006.
www.sec.gov
www.heinz.com
proxy@mackenziepartners.com
ABOUT HEINZ: H.J. Heinz Company, offering "Good Food, Every Day," is one of the world's leading marketers and producers of branded foods in ketchup and condiments; meals & snacks; and infant foods. Heinz delights consumers in every outlet, from supermarkets to restaurants to convenience stores and kiosks. Heinz is a global family of leading brands, including Heinz(R) Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta and infant foods (representing nearly one-third of total sales or close to $3 billion), HP(R) and Lea & Perrins(R), Ore-Ida(R) french fries and roasted potatoes, Boston Market(R) and Smart Ones(R) meals, and Plasmon(R) baby food. Heinz has leading brands in six core developed geographies and five developing geographies. Information on Heinz is available at www.heinz.com/news.
Media:


