FILE:HNZ/HNZ-8K-20091124071738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): November 24, 2009
H.J. HEINZ COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
412-456-5700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
GENERAL
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Attached is H. J. Heinz Companys press release dated November 24, 2009 furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
This press release presents the business measure of organic sales growth, which is defined as either volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. This measure is utilized by senior management to provide investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
This press release also presents the business measure of operating free cash flow, which is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment.  This measure is utilized by senior management and the board of directors to gauge our business operating performance, including the progress of management to profitably monetize low return assets.
The limitation of operating free cash flow is that it adjusts for cash used for capital expenditures and cash received from disposals of property, plant and equipment, the net of which is no longer available to the Company for other purposes. Management compensates for this limitation by using the GAAP operating cash flow number as well. Operating free cash flow does not represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures and does not provide insight to the entire scope of the historical cash inflows or outflows of our operations that are captured in the other cash flow measures reported in the statement of cash flows.
This press release also presents certain reported amounts and certain outlook on a constant currency basis. Constant currency is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year), the impact of the fluctuation in the British Pound versus the Euro and U.S. Dollar cross rates on U.K. transaction costs (impact of currency on particular transactions such as raw material sourcing), and the impact of current and prior year foreign currency translation hedges.  Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of financial results. Management provides outlook on a constant currency basis because of the volatility of foreign exchange rates and because it believes that such presentation facilitates a period to period comparison.   However, a limitation of the use of the constant currency results as a performance measure is that it does not reflect the unfavorable impact of exchange rates on financial results when comparing to the prior period. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP.   
Disclosed on Exhibit 99.1 is supplemental information regarding reconciliation and calculation of the non-GAAP measures discussed above in connection with the financial results for the second quarters and six months ended October 28, 2009 and October 29, 2008, respectively.
ITEM 7.01  REGULATION FD
Attached and furnished as Exhibit 99.2 is a five-year unaudited Summary of Financial Statements that is also being posted in connection with the Companys investor and analyst call on November 24, 2009.  This five-year summary reflects recast financial information which reports the operating results of the Kabobs frozen hors d'oeuvres business, which was sold during the second quarter of Fiscal 2010, in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)         Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Heinz Reports Second-Quarter EPS of $0.76 from Continuing Operations
Raises Full-Year EPS Outlook to a Range of $2.72 -- $2.82 from Continuing Operations
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 24, 2009--H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE:HNZ):
Continuing Operations:
Reported sales grew 2.5% to $2.67 billion, led by double-digit organic growth in Emerging Markets and acquisitions
Operating income grew 6% to $408 million, with gross margins improving 60 basis points
EPS of $0.76 was $0.10 lower than prior year due to an $0.18 currency hedge gain in Q2, Fiscal 2009
On a constant currency basis, Heinz grew sales by 3.5%, operating income by 10.2%, and EPS by 15.9%
18 consecutive quarter of organic sales growth
th
Heinz raises full-year EPS outlook to a range of $2.72 -- $2.82 from its original range of $2.60 -- $2.70
Total Company:
EPS of $0.73 reflects the one-time loss on sale of a small non-core business in U.S. Foodservice
Operating free cash flow more than doubled to $293 million
Heinz raises full-year operating free cash flow outlook to approximately $1 billion
Reconciliations of non-GAAP amounts are set forth in the attached financial tables. Organic sales are defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. Operating Free Cash Flow is defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment. Also, constant currency as used in this press release is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year), the impact of the fluctuation in the British Pound versus the Euro and U.S. Dollar cross rates on UK transaction costs (impact of currency on particular transactions such as raw material sourcing), and the impact of current and prior year foreign currency translation hedges).
PITTSBURGH -- H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE:HNZ) delivered strong financial results in its fiscal second quarter, achieving growth of 2.5% in sales, 6% in operating income and earnings per share of $0.76 from continuing operations on higher margins, despite unfavorable foreign currency. The results were driven by 11.7% organic sales growth (6.8% reported) in Emerging Markets, higher sales of its Top 15 brands and carryover pricing from Fiscal 2009. Operating free cash flow more than doubled to $293 million in the quarter ended October 28, reflecting the Companys strategic focus on cash, working capital and inventory reductions.
On a constant currency basis, Heinz grew sales by 3.5%, operating income by 10.2% and EPS by 15.9% from continuing operations.
Heinz today is raising its full-year Fiscal 2010 outlook for EPS from continuing operations to a range of $2.72 to $2.82, from its previous target of $2.60 to $2.70. Heinz also is raising its outlook for operating free cash flow to approximately $1 billion for the year, from an earlier range of $850 to $900 million. Heinzs upgraded outlook for EPS and cash is based on its strong first-half results, the improving currency climate, the Companys plans to significantly increase marketing and value-focused innovation in the second half of the year and confidence in its operating momentum.
Heinz Chairman, President and CEO William R. Johnson said: Heinz delivered a strong financial performance in an adverse economic climate, led by our growing strength in Emerging Markets. Looking forward, the Company is raising its full-year outlook for earnings and cash flow and we expect increased top-line momentum in the second half of the fiscal year.
Second-Quarter Results from Continuing Operations
Sales grew 2.5% to $2.67 billion, despite a 1% unfavorable impact of foreign currency. Heinz delivered organic sales growth for the 18 consecutive quarter, driven by its strong growth in Emerging Markets, which was led by pricing and higher sales of nutritional beverages in India, and ketchup and baby food in both Latin America and Russia.
th
Globally, Infant Nutrition achieved 8.8% reported sales growth to lead the Companys three core categories. The Companys Top 15 brands delivered 5% reported sales growth, led by the Heinz brand. Rest of World led all segments with organic sales growth of 23.3%, followed by Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Acquisitions net of divestitures increased sales by 3.1%, driven by the December 2008 acquisition of Golden Circle in Australia, which has expanded Heinzs Health & Wellness platform in beverages. Net pricing improved 4.6%, reflecting the carryover impact of pricing from the second half of Fiscal 2009, more than offsetting a 4.1% decline in volume. The volume results primarily reflected the timing impact of pricing actions taken last year in North America Consumer Products and lower volume in the U.S. Foodservice business, reflecting lower guest traffic in the U.S. restaurant sector and the Companys ongoing strategy to discontinue lower profit products.
We expect solid volume growth in the second half, fueled by significant increases in marketing, consumer-driven innovation and brand support initiatives that are underway to further leverage our strong brand equities, especially in developed markets, Mr. Johnson said.
Gross margin increased to 35.8%, reflecting improved pricing and productivity, partially offset by higher commodity costs. Net input costs rose 4% as lower energy costs in the quarter were more than offset by higher costs largely for tomatoes, potatoes and tinplate and the continuing impact of currency cross rates. SG&A, excluding marketing, decreased as a percentage of sales due to effective cost management and productivity in S&D.
Operating income increased 6% to $408 million, reflecting carryover pricing, improved productivity and disciplined cost management. On a constant currency basis, operating income grew 10.2%.
Pre-tax profit and EPS from continuing operations declined 15.2% and 11.6% respectively, due to a $92 million pre-tax gain ($0.18 at EPS) in last years second quarter related to translation hedges on key currencies.
On a constant currency basis, EPS grew 15.9%. The Companys tax rate for the quarter was 25.6%, versus 28.6% a year ago reflecting tax planning and audit settlements.
Including discontinued operations (discussed below), Heinz reported net income of $231 million, or $0.73 per share.
Discontinued Operations
During the second quarter of Fiscal 2010, the Company completed the sale of its Kabobs frozen hors doeuvres business within the U.S. Foodservice segment, resulting in a $15 million pre-tax ($10.9 million after-tax) loss, which has been recorded in discontinued operations. In Fiscal 2009, Kabobs had reported sales of $17 million. The sale of this business is not expected to have a material impact on the future profitability of the Company.
Subsequent Event
On November 23, 2009, Heinz completed the sale of its private label frozen desserts business in the UK. The sale comprises two manufacturing facilities in the UK (Okehampton and Leamington Spa) with 580 employees. The transaction will result in a $33 million pre-tax loss during the third quarter, which will be recorded in discontinued operations.
Second Quarter Marketing Highlights
Marketing investments increased 14% from a year ago, reflecting Heinzs commitment to driving growth in its core brands.
Heinz UK launched its biggest marketing campaign in five years to support its family of products  It Has to be Heinz.
Heinz reported soup sales in the UK grew 11% driven by innovation and pricing.
Heinz Ketchup achieved a share of 82% in Canada, fueled by a marketing campaign celebrating the Companys 100 anniversary in that nation.
th
In Mexicos modern trade, Heinz Ketchup achieved a record market share of 12% in that fast-growing Emerging Market.
In Russia, the second-largest ketchup market in the world, the Company achieved another record share of more than 22% for ketchup and sauces.
Reported sales of Complan nutritional beverages in India grew 15% as Heinz increased marketing and distribution, with a focus on childrens health.
In Australia, Heinz introduced Golden Circle LOL fizzy fruit juices and GC Raw, a blend of fruit and vegetable juices, to expand its healthy beverage line.
Second Quarter Results from Continuing Operations, By Segment
North American Consumer Products
Sales of the North American Consumer Products segment decreased 4.3%, with an organic sales decline of 4.7%. Sales were impacted by the timing of pricing actions at the end of Q2 last year. Favorable Canadian exchange translation rates increased sales 0.4%. Operating income increased 4.9% due to pricing, productivity and lower fuel costs.
Europe
Sales declined 3.3% due to unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates of 5.1%. Organic sales in Europe increased 1.7%. Operating income was flat versus prior year, primarily reflecting the cross currency rate movements in the British Pound versus the Euro and U.S. Dollar.
Asia-Pacific
Heinz Asia-Pacifics sales increased 27.4%, primarily reflecting the impact of acquisitions, which included Golden Circle Limited, a health-oriented fruit and juice business in Australia, and La Bonne Cuisine, a chilled dip business in New Zealand. Favorable exchange translation rates increased sales by 4%. Operating income increased 4.6%. Acquisitions had a favorable impact on operating income dollars but negatively impacted margins.
U.S. Foodservice
Both reported and organic sales of the U.S. Foodservice segment decreased 0.9%, largely reflecting reduced restaurant guest traffic. Operating income increased 15.1% as the foodservice business continued to reduce costs and streamline and simplify its portfolio.
Rest of World
Both reported and organic sales for Rest of World increased 23.3%. Foreign exchange translation rates decreased sales 1%, which was offset by a 1% gain due to acquisitions. Operating income increased 40.1%.
Year-to-Date
In the six months ended October 28, 2009, total Company net income attributable to H.J. Heinz Company was $444 million, or $1.40 per diluted share, compared with $506 million, or $1.58 per diluted share a year ago. On a constant currency, continuing operations basis, sales rose 4.1%, operating income grew 7.8% and EPS increased 12.8%.
MEETING WITH SECURITIES ANALYSTS  INTERNET BROADCASTS
Heinz will host an investor and analyst call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call will be Webcast live on and will be archived for playback. Participants (institutional investors and analysts) can call (800) 933-5758 in the U.S. and Canada. A listen-only broadcast for media is available on (800) 955-1760. Slides will be available for this call on . The conference call will be hosted by William R. Johnson, Chairman, President and CEO, and Art Winkleblack, Chief Financial Officer.
www.heinz.com
www.heinz.com
SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This press release and our other public pronouncements contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words will, expects, anticipates, believes, estimates or similar expressions and include our expectations as to future revenue growth, earnings, capital expenditures and other spending, dividend policy, and planned credit rating, as well as anticipated reductions in spending. These forward-looking statements reflect managements view of future events and financial performance. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which may be beyond Heinzs control, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from such statements include, but are not limited to:
sales, earnings, and volume growth,
general economic, political, and industry conditions, including those that could impact consumer spending,
competitive conditions, which affect, among other things, customer preferences and the pricing of products, production, and energy costs,
competition from lower-priced private label brands,
increases in the cost and restrictions on the availability of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and packaging materials, the ability to increase product prices in response, and the impact on profitability,
the ability to identify and anticipate and respond through innovation to consumer trends,
the need for product recalls,
the ability to maintain favorable supplier and customer relationships, and the financial viability of those suppliers and customers,
currency valuations and interest rate fluctuations,
changes in credit ratings, leverage, and economic conditions and the impact of these factors on the cost of borrowing and access to capital markets,
our ability to effectuate our strategy, which includes our continued evaluation of potential acquisition opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other initiatives, including our ability to identify, finance and complete these initiatives, and our ability to realize anticipated benefits from them,
the ability to successfully complete cost reduction programs and increase productivity,
the ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses,
new products, packaging innovations, and product mix,
the effectiveness of advertising, marketing, and promotional programs,
supply chain efficiency,
cash flow initiatives,
risks inherent in litigation, including tax litigation,
the ability to further penetrate and grow and the risk of doing business in international markets, economic or political instability in those markets, particularly in Venezuela, and the performance of business in hyperinflationary environments,
changes in estimates in critical accounting judgments and changes in laws and regulations, including tax laws,
the success of tax planning strategies,
the possibility of increased pension expense and contributions and other people-related costs,
the potential adverse impact of natural disasters, such as flooding and crop failures,
the ability to implement new information systems and potential disruptions due to failures in information technology systems,
with regard to dividends, dividends must be declared by the Board of Directors and will be subject to certain legal requirements being met at the time of declaration, as well as our Boards view of our anticipated cash needs, and
other factors described in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2009.
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the securities laws.
ABOUT HEINZ: H.J. Heinz Company, offering Good Food Every Day is one of the worlds leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz provides superior quality, taste and nutrition for all eating occasions whether in the home, restaurants, the office or on-the-go. Heinz is a global family of leading branded products, including Heinz Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta and infant foods (representing over one third of Heinzs total sales), Ore-Ida potato products, Weight Watchers Smart Ones entrees, T.G.I. Fridays snacks, and Plasmon infant nutrition. Heinz is famous for its iconic brands on six continents, showcased by Heinz Ketchup, The Worlds Favorite Ketchup.
(a) Includes costs associated with targeted workforce reductions and asset write-offs related to a factory closure that were part of a corporation-wide initiative to improve productivity.
CONTACT: H.J. Heinz Company Media: Michael Mullen, 412-456-5751 or Investors: Margaret Nollen, 412-456-1048
Michael.mullen@us.hjheinz.com

Exhibit 99.2


