FILE:HNZ/HNZ-8K-20101119074746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): November 19, 2010
H.J. HEINZ COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
412-456-5700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
GENERAL
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Attached is H. J. Heinz Companys press release dated November 19, 2010 furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
This press release presents the business measure of organic sales growth, which is defined as either volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. This measure is utilized by senior management to provide investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
This press release also presents the business measure of operating free cash flow, which is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment.  This measure is utilized by senior management and the board of directors to gauge our business operating performance, including the progress of management to profitably monetize low return assets.
The limitation of operating free cash flow is that it adjusts for cash used for capital expenditures and cash received from disposals of property, plant and equipment, the net of which is no longer available to the Company for other purposes. Management compensates for this limitation by using the GAAP operating cash flow number as well. Operating free cash flow does not represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures and does not provide insight to the entire scope of the historical cash inflows or outflows of our operations that are captured in the other cash flow measures reported in the statement of cash flows.
This press release also presents certain reported amounts and certain outlook on a constant currency basis. Constant currency is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year) and the impact of current and prior year foreign currency translation hedges.  Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of financial results. Management provides outlook on a constant currency basis because of the volatility of foreign exchange rates and because it believes that such presentation facilitates a period-to-period comparison.   However, a limitation of the use of the constant currency results as a performance measure is that it does not reflect the unfavorable impact of exchange rates on financial results when comparing to the prior period. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP.   
Disclosed on Exhibit 99.1 is supplemental information regarding reconciliation and calculation of the non-GAAP measures discussed above in connection with the financial results for the second quarters and six months ended October 27, 2010 and October 28, 2009, respectively.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)         Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Heinz Reports EPS of $0.78, Reaffirms Full-Year Fiscal 2011 Outlook for Sales, Operating Income and EPS, Raises Operating Free Cash Flow Target 15% to $1.15 Billion
Fiscal 2011 Second-Quarter Results
Emerging Markets delivered 10.2% organic sales growth (down 1.2% reported) and generated 15% of the Companys sales
Global Ketchup organic sales grew by 3.3% (down 1.4% reported)
Top 15 brands achieved 2.7% organic sales growth (0.1% reported)
Overall, Heinz posted 0.9% organic sales growth (down 1.2% reported)
Gross profit margin improved by 100 basis points
Operating income grew 2.1%
Net income from continuing operations increased 3.4% to $251 million. Total Company net income grew 8.6%
Earnings per share from continuing operations grew 2.6%
Operating free cash flow of $297 million
On a constant currency, continuing operations basis, sales rose 1.0%, operating income 4.6% and EPS 6.6%
Reconciliations of non-GAAP amounts are set forth in the attached financial tables. Organic sales are defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. Operating free cash flow is defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment. Also, constant currency as used in this press release is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year) and the impact of current and prior-year foreign currency translation hedges.
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 19, 2010--H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE:HNZ) today reported higher second-quarter operating income, net income and earnings per share as the Company delivered strong organic sales growth in Emerging Markets and global ketchup.
Emerging Markets delivered organic sales growth of 10.2 percent, driven by infant nutrition products, ketchup and nutritional beverages as well as increased pricing, primarily in Latin America. Emerging Markets generated 15% of the Companys total sales for the quarter. Organic sales of ketchup grew 3.3% globally, with growth across Europe that was led by Russia, where Heinz is the number-one brand.
In the second quarter ended October 27, reported sales declined 1.2% to $2.61 billion as a result of currency translation. All of the Companys operating segments, with the exception of U.S. Foodservice, delivered organic sales growth for the quarter. Reported sales grew in Asia Pacific and North American Consumer Products while reported sales were down in Europe and the Rest of World segments due to currency. U.S. Foodservice reported lower sales, reflecting the continuing decline in restaurant dining in this difficult economy. The Rest of World segment grew organic sales 14.3%.
Operating income grew 2.1% to $417 million. Net income from continuing operations increased 3.4% to $251.4 million from $243.1 million. Earnings per share from continuing operations grew 2.6% to 78 cents per share from 76 cents a year ago. On a constant currency, continuing operations basis, sales grew 1.0%, operating income increased 4.6% and EPS rose 6.6%.
Heinz Chairman, President and CEO William R. Johnson said: Heinz delivered growth in operating income, net income and earnings per share in the second quarter of Fiscal Year 2011, led by strong organic growth in Emerging Markets and global ketchup. Our performance benefitted from strong margins as a result of good operating discipline across our U.S. and European businesses.
Mr. Johnson added: Our strategy to accelerate growth in Emerging Markets is producing excellent results, especially in Asia, where Heinz is well-positioned with strong brands in growing economies that possess expanding numbers of new middle-class consumers. Emerging Markets are driving our growth this year and are on track to generate at least 20% of the Companys total sales by 2013.
Heinz is investing in these markets to drive growth, as evidenced by this months acquisition of Foodstar, a leading manufacturer of soy sauce in China, and we are actively exploring other promising Emerging Markets.
The 2.7% organic sales growth in the Companys Top 15 brands was led by Heinz Ketchup, Complan nutritional beverages in India, Heinz infant nutrition products in Emerging Markets, ABC brand products in Indonesia and Ore-Ida potatoes in the U.S. Overall, Heinz delivered its 22 consecutive quarter of organic sales growth.
nd
Volume increased by 0.3%, driven by 2.6% growth in Emerging Markets. Net pricing increased sales by 0.6% and acquisitions increased sales by 0.1%. Foreign exchange translation rates reduced reported sales by 2.3%.
Gross profit increased 1.4% to $967 million and gross profit margin increased to 37.0% from 36.0%, a 100 basis point improvement, as net pricing and productivity improvements were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates and higher commodity costs.
The growth in operating income was driven by higher organic sales and gross margin offset somewhat by increased SG&A expenses, reflecting investments in global processes and systems upgrades, and higher compensation costs. The effective tax rate for the quarter increased 110 basis points to 26.7% from 25.6% last year.
Net income from continuing operations grew 3.4% to $251 million from $243 million in the prior year. Total Company net income grew 8.6%.
Currency movements had a $0.03 unfavorable impact on EPS in the second quarter. For the quarter, 62% of the Companys sales were generated outside the U.S.
Operating free cash flow was once again very strong, increasing to $297 million, reflecting strong profit growth, improved working capital, reduced pension funding and disciplined capital management.
Second-Quarter Marketing Highlights
Ore-Ida Sweet Potato Fries achieved the number-one retail share in the fast-growing U.S. frozen sweet potato market.
Classico successfully launched its first Light Creamy Alfredo sauce in the U.S.
Heinz Canada achieved record 52-week shares for ketchup, Renes refrigerated dressings and Diana sauces.
Heinz U.K. successfully launched Fridge Pack Beanz, whose innovative resealable packaging keeps the product fresh after it is opened.
In Emerging Markets, Heinz delivered 17% organic sales growth in Infant/Nutrition, reflecting strong growth in China and India.
In China, Heinz infant cereal grew to a record share, propelled by new varieties.
In India, organic sales of Complan nutritional beverages rose almost 30%, with Complan Memory and Complan Nutri-Grow driving incremental business.
In Russia, Heinz infant cereal grew to a 25% share and the Company delivered record ketchup share, driven by higher sales and volume in Heinz Ketchup.
Heinz ABC sauces in Indonesia had a record quarter with organic sales growth of 19%, propelled by new varieties and advertising.
Commenting on innovation, Mr. Johnson said: I am particularly enthused about the upcoming launch of Dip and Squeeze in the U.S. This new dual-function ketchup package is generating a very positive response from consumers and improved results for restaurant operators in test markets.
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
Reflecting its solid first-half results, Heinz today raised its operating free cash flow outlook by 15% to $1.15 billion. The Company also reaffirmed its previously announced outlook for sales, operating income and EPS for Fiscal 2011. For the full year, Heinz expects to deliver, on a constant currency basis:
Sales growth of 3 to 4%,
Operating income growth of 7 to 10%, and
Growth of 7 to 10% in earnings per share.
Mr. Johnson concluded: Heinz delivered solid results in the first half of Fiscal 2011 and the Company is raising our operating free cash flow outlook as a result. Heinz remains on track to deliver our financial targets for the full year. We are focused on driving profitable growth in both Developed and Emerging Markets in the second half given the challenging environment and rising commodity costs.
OPERATING RESULTS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
North American Consumer Products
Sales of North American Consumer Products increased 1.4% to $803 million. Volume increased 1.6%. Sales of Ore-Ida frozen potatoes and frozen appetizers increased behind successful new product launches while Heinz Ketchup and Smart Ones frozen entrees declined primarily reflecting promotional timing differences. Net pricing decreased 1.4% as a result of increased trade promotions. The acquisition of Arthurs Fresh Company in Canada in the third quarter of Fiscal 2010 increased sales 0.4%. Favorable Canadian exchange translation rates increased sales 0.8%. Operating income increased 1.5% to $204 million.
Europe
Heinz Europe sales decreased 5.2% to $798 million as unfavorable foreign exchange translation reduced sales by 5.7%. Volume grew 0.7%, led by solid growth in the U.K., reflecting increases in Aunt Bessies frozen potatoes, Heinz Soup and Salad Cream, and strong ketchup performance, especially in Russia and France. These increases were partially offset by a decline in soups in Germany. Net pricing decreased 0.2%. Operating income was flat at $136 million despite the negative impact of currency.
Asia/Pacific
Heinz Asia/Pacific sales grew 8.0% to $531 million. Favorable exchange translation rates increased sales by 6.3%. Volume increased 2.0%, led by significant growth in Complan nutritional beverages in India, ABC sauces in Indonesia and infant feeding products in China. These increases were partially offset by lower sales in Australia and declines in ABC syrups due to the timing of the Ramadan holiday. Pricing decreased 0.3%, with increased pricing in Asian markets largely offset by declines in Pacific markets. Operating income grew 9.7% to $58 million.
U.S. Foodservice
Sales of U.S. Foodservice decreased 2.9% to $362 million. Pricing increased sales 1.7%, largely due to reduced trade promotions and commodity-related price increases on tomato products in the prior year. Volume decreased 4.6% primarily due to declines in frozen desserts, reflecting reduced promotion activity and continued weakness in restaurant traffic. Operating income increased 20.3% to $51 million.
Rest of World
Sales for Rest of World decreased 19.1% to $120 million. Foreign exchange translation rates decreased sales 33.4% largely due to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency late in the third quarter of Fiscal 2010. Higher pricing increased sales by 16.5%, largely due to price increases in Latin America to offset inflation. Volume decreased 2.2% as increases in the Middle East were more than offset by declines in Venezuela. Operating income decreased 38.9% to $13 million.
Year-To-Date
For the six months ended October 27, 2010, total Company net income attributable to H.J. Heinz Company was $492 million, or $1.53 per diluted share, compared with $444 million or $1.40 per diluted share a year ago. On a constant currency, continuing operations basis, sales rose 2.3%, operating income grew 8.4% and EPS increased 9.7%. On a reported continuing operations basis, sales rose slightly, operating income grew 5.8% and EPS increased 6.3%.
MEETING WITH SECURITIES ANALYSTS  INTERNET BROADCASTS
Heinz will host an investor and analyst call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call will be Webcast live on and will be archived for playback. Participants (institutional investors and analysts) can call 1-866-318-8615 in the U.S. and Canada and 1-617-399-5134 internationally. A listen-only broadcast for media is available on 1-866-800-8648 in the U.S. and Canada and 1-617-614-2702 for international attendees. Corresponding slides will be available for this call on . The conference call will be hosted by William R. Johnson, Chairman, President and CEO.
www.heinz.com
www.heinz.com
SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This press release and our other public pronouncements contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words will, expects, anticipates, believes, estimates or similar expressions and include our expectations as to future revenue growth, earnings, capital expenditures and other spending, dividend policy, and planned credit rating, as well as anticipated reductions in spending. These forward-looking statements reflect managements view of future events and financial performance. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which may be beyond Heinzs control, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from such statements include, but are not limited to:
sales, earnings, and volume growth,
general economic, political, and industry conditions, including those that could impact consumer spending,
competitive conditions, which affect, among other things, customer preferences and the pricing of products, production, and energy costs,
competition from lower-priced private label brands,
increases in the cost and restrictions on the availability of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and packaging materials, the ability to increase product prices in response, and the impact on profitability,
the ability to identify and anticipate and respond through innovation to consumer trends,
the need for product recalls,
the ability to maintain favorable supplier and customer relationships, and the financial viability of those suppliers and customers,
currency valuations and devaluations and interest rate fluctuations,
changes in credit ratings, leverage, and economic conditions and the impact of these factors on the cost of borrowing and access to capital markets,
our ability to effectuate our strategy, which includes our continued evaluation of potential acquisition opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other initiatives, including our ability to identify, finance and complete these initiatives, and our ability to realize anticipated benefits from them,
the ability to successfully complete cost reduction programs and increase productivity,
the ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses,
new products, packaging innovations, and product mix,
the effectiveness of advertising, marketing, and promotional programs,
supply chain efficiency,
cash flow initiatives,
risks inherent in litigation, including tax litigation,
the ability to further penetrate and grow and the risk of doing business in international markets, including our emerging markets; economic or political instability, nationalization, and the performance of business in hyperinflationary environments, in each case such as Venezuela; and the uncertain global macroeconomic environment and sovereign debt issues, particularly in Europe,
changes in estimates in critical accounting judgments and changes in laws and regulations, including tax laws,
the success of tax planning strategies,
the possibility of increased pension expense and contributions and other people-related costs,
the potential adverse impact of natural disasters, such as flooding and crop failures,
the ability to implement new information systems and potential disruptions due to failures in information technology systems,
with regard to dividends, dividends must be declared by the Board of Directors and will be subject to certain legal requirements being met at the time of declaration, as well as our Boards view of our anticipated cash needs, and
other factors described in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2010 and reports on Forms 10-Q thereafter.
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the securities laws.
ABOUT HEINZ: H.J. Heinz Company, offering Good Food Every Day is one of the worlds leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz provides superior quality, taste and nutrition for all eating occasions whether in the home, restaurants, the office or on-the-go. Heinz is a global family of leading branded products, including Heinz Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta and infant foods (representing over one third of Heinzs total sales), Ore-Ida potato products, Weight Watchers Smart Ones entrees, T.G.I. Fridays snacks, and Plasmon infant nutrition. Heinz is famous for its iconic brands on six continents, showcased by Heinz Ketchup, The Worlds Favorite Ketchup.
CONTACT: H.J. Heinz Company Media: Michael Mullen, 412-456-5751 or Investors: Margaret Nollen, 412-456-1048
Michael.mullen@us.hjheinz.com


