FILE:HNZ/HNZ-8K-20100901073622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): September 1, 2010
H.J. HEINZ COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
412-456-5700 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
GENERAL
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Attached is H. J. Heinz Companys press release dated September 1, 2010 furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
This press release presents the business measure of organic sales growth, which is defined as either volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. This measure is utilized by senior management to provide investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
This press release also presents the business measure of operating free cash flow, which is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment.  This measure is utilized by senior management and the board of directors to gauge our business operating performance, including the progress of management to profitably monetize low return assets.
The limitation of operating free cash flow is that it adjusts for cash used for capital expenditures and cash received from disposals of property, plant and equipment, the net of which is no longer available to the Company for other purposes. Management compensates for this limitation by using the GAAP operating cash flow number as well. Operating free cash flow does not represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures and does not provide insight to the entire scope of the historical cash inflows or outflows of our operations that are captured in the other cash flow measures reported in the statement of cash flows.
This press release also presents certain reported amounts and certain outlook on a constant currency basis. Constant currency is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year) and the impact of current and prior year foreign currency translation hedges.  Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of financial results. Management provides outlook on a constant currency basis because of the volatility of foreign exchange rates and because it believes that such presentation facilitates a period-to-period comparison.   However, a limitation of the use of the constant currency results as a performance measure is that it does not reflect the unfavorable impact of exchange rates on financial results when comparing to the prior period. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP.   
Disclosed on Exhibit 99.1 is supplemental information regarding reconciliation and calculation of the non-GAAP measures discussed above in connection with the financial results for the first quarters ended July 28, 2010 and July 29, 2009, respectively.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)         Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Heinz Reports Strong First-Quarter Results with a Double-Digit Increase in EPS to $0.75, Reaffirms Full Year Fiscal 2011 Outlook
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--September 1, 2010--H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE:HNZ):
Fiscal 2011 First-Quarter Results
3.6% organic sales growth, reported sales up 1.6%
21 consecutive quarter of organic sales growth
st
Emerging Markets delivered 21.9% organic sales growth (13.2% reported) and generated 17.8% of the Companys sales
Top 15 brands achieved 5.7% organic sales growth (3.3% reported)
Global Ketchup organic sales grew by 8.0% (3.4% reported)
Volume grew 2.5%, led by higher volume in Emerging Markets and North American Consumer Products
Gross profit margin improved by 90 basis points
Operating income grew 9.9% to $406 million
Net income increased 13% to $240 million
Earnings per share grew 10.3% from continuing operations
Operating free cash flow increased 80% to $217 million
Reconciliations of non-GAAP amounts are set forth in the attached financial tables. Organic sales are defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. Operating Free Cash Flow is defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment. Also, constant currency as used in this press release is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year) and the impact of current and prior-year foreign currency translation hedges.
H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE:HNZ) today reported solid growth in first-quarter sales, operating income and earnings per share, driven by accelerating double-digit sales growth in Emerging Markets and strong growth in North American Consumer Products.
In the fiscal quarter ended July 28, reported sales grew 1.6% to $2.48 billion as Heinz delivered 3.6% organic sales growth across its global portfolio. Operating income increased 9.9% to $406 million. Earnings per share from continuing operations grew to $0.75 from $0.68 a year ago. Net income increased to $240 million from $213 million, or $0.67 per share, a year ago, which included a net loss of $2.2 million, or $0.01 per share from discontinued operations in Fiscal 2010. On a constant currency basis, sales grew 3.7%, operating income increased 12.6% and EPS rose 14.7%.
Heinz Chairman, President and CEO William R. Johnson said: I am pleased with our strong first-quarter results which were led by continued momentum in Emerging Markets and good results in North American Consumer Products. Emerging Markets accounted for a record 18% of the Companys total sales.
Mr. Johnson added: Globally, Heinz delivered strong organic sales growth in a difficult economic environment, including 8% growth in ketchup and almost 6% growth in our Top 15 brands. We continued to invest in innovation and marketing as the Company delivered our 21 consecutive quarter of organic sales growth.
st
The sales growth in the Companys Top 15 brands was led by the global Heinz brand, including Heinz Ketchup, Complan nutritional beverages in India, ABC brand products in Indonesia and Smart Ones in the U.S. Ketchup sales were driven by higher sales and volume in the U.S. and Russia, one of the worlds largest ketchup markets. Heinz consumer marketing investments in the quarter increased by almost 10% to drive growth and innovation. The Company still expects full-year Fiscal 2011 consumer marketing investments to be in line with Fiscal 2010.
Volume increased by 2.5%, propelled by volume growth of almost 12% in Emerging Markets and more than 5% in North American Consumer Products. Net pricing increased sales by 1.1%. Acquisitions increased sales by 0.1%. Foreign exchange translation rates reduced reported sales by 2.1%.
Gross profit increased 4.1% to $908 million and gross profit margin increased to 36.6% from 35.7%, a 90 basis point improvement, as higher volume, net pricing and productivity improvements were partially offset by foreign exchange translation rates and higher commodity costs.
The growth in operating income was driven by higher sales and gross margin as SG&A expenses were essentially flat in the quarter despite higher marketing expenses. Prior-year results included $16 million in up-front productivity costs. Net interest expense increased $8 million, to $63 million, reflecting a $20 million prior-year gain on a total rate of return swap that was partially offset by lower average interest rates. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 25.3% versus 28.5% last year, largely reflecting increased benefits from foreign tax planning and the benefit of a statutory tax rate reduction in the U.K., partially offset by higher repatriation costs.
Currency movements had a $0.03 unfavorable impact on EPS in the first quarter, after taking into account the net effect of current and prior-year currency translation contracts and foreign currency movements on translation. Currency transaction impacts were not material this quarter. For the quarter, 62% of the Companys sales were generated outside the U.S.
Operating free cash flow increased 80% to $217 million, reflecting improved working capital, reduced pension funding, strong profit growth and disciplined capital management.
First-Quarter Marketing Highlights
In Russia, Heinz achieved a record value share of 22.5% in Ketchup and Sauces.
Heinz became a strategic supplier of ketchup and toppings to McDonalds restaurants in much of Asia/Pacific, South Africa and India.
In India, Heinz delivered volume growth of almost 30%, led by Complan and Glucon-D nutritional beverages and growth in Nycil powder.
In Indonesia, Heinz successfully launched new cordials and Duo Fruit, a multi-flavored squash product.
Heinz increased distribution of its newly-launched line of infant formulas in China.
In New Zealand, the Companys Watties brand was voted the 2010 Most Trusted Brand in a Readers Digest poll of consumers.
In the U.K., Heinz continued its successful It Has to Be Heinz campaign, and launched new varieties of its popular salad cream.
In Canada, Heinz baby cereal won a Grand Prix award for best new product from the Canadian Council of Grocery Distributors.
In the U.S., innovation and brand support through the Consumer Value Program drove higher volumes of Heinz Ketchup and Smart Ones products. Simply Heinz, a new variety of Heinz Ketchup made with sugar,was named Best Ketchup in Magazines 2010 Healthy Food Awards.
Self
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
Heinz reaffirmed its previously-announced outlook for Fiscal 2011. For the full year, the Company expects to deliver, on a constant currency basis:
Sales growth of 3 to 4%,
Operating income growth of 7 to 10%, and
Growth of 7 to 10% in earnings per share.
Heinz also expects to generate operating free cash flow of more than $1 billion for the second consecutive year.
Mr. Johnson said: Heinz is off to a good start in Fiscal 2011 and we remain confident about the Companys business fundamentals, despite the difficult economic climate. While we anticipate that our full-year results will be impacted by foreign currency movements, we plan to continue executing our well-established strategy to grow our core portfolio, accelerate growth in Emerging Markets, strengthen and leverage global scale and make talent an advantage for Heinz.
OPERATING RESULTS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
North American Consumer Products
Sales of the North American Consumer Products segment increased 4.8% to $762 million. Volume increased 5.3% mainly due to growth in Heinz Ketchup, Smart Ones frozen entrees and Classico pasta sauces. Pricing decreased 2.7% reflecting increased promotional activity in several categories. The acquisition of Arthurs Fresh Company, a small chilled smoothies business in Canada, in the third quarter of Fiscal 2010 increased sales 0.3%. Favorable Canadian exchange translation rates increased sales 1.7%. Operating income increased 3.7% to $191 million, reflecting the growth in net sales, higher productivity and the favorable impact from currency, partially offset by higher commodity costs.
Europe
Heinz Europe sales decreased 7.7% to $713 million as unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates decreased reported sales by 7.5%. Volume increased 0.2%, as higher ketchup sales across Europe, particularly in Russia and France, and frozen potatoes in the U.K. were offset by category-related declines in Italian infant nutrition and soups in the U.K. and Germany. Net pricing decreased 0.4%. Operating income decreased 10.4% to $115 million, primarily reflecting unfavorable foreign currency translation rates. Increased marketing investments and higher SG&A and commodity costs were partially offset by productivity improvements.
Asia/Pacific
Heinz Asia/Pacific sales increased 19.0% to $558 million. Volume increased 6.9%, driven by significant growth in Complan and Glucon-D nutritional beverages in India, ABC products in Indonesia, which benefited from holiday timing, new infant feeding products in China, and Watties and Heinz products in New Zealand. These increases were partially offset by general softness in Australia. Favorable exchange translation rates increased sales by 9.7% and pricing increased 2.4%, reflecting increases in Emerging Markets. Operating income increased 34.6% to $72 million, primarily reflecting sales growth, increased productivity and a favorable impact from currency, partially offset by increased marketing investments and commodity costs.
U.S. Foodservice
Sales of the U.S. Foodservice segment decreased 2.3% to $329 million. Volume decreased 5.1%, reflecting the rationalization of less-profitable SKUs, continued softness in the U.S. restaurant industry, and the timing of new national account product introductions in the prior year. Pricing increased sales 2.8%. Operating income posted strong growth, up 24.1% to $39 million, as improved productivity and price increases more than offset higher commodity costs and lower volume.
Rest of World
Sales for the Rest of World decreased 12.6% to $119 million, reflecting the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange translation rates, which decreased sales 36.9%, due to the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte late in the third quarter of Fiscal 2010. Volume increased 3.8%, while pricing increased sales by 20.5%, largely due to price increases to offset inflation. Operating income decreased 12.1% to $16 million.
MEETING WITH SECURITIES ANALYSTS  INTERNET BROADCASTS
Heinz will host an investor and analyst call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call will be Webcast live on and will be archived for playback. Participants (institutional investors and analysts) can call 1-866-318-8620 in the U.S. and Canada and 1-617-399-5139 internationally. A listen-only broadcast for media is available on 1-866-800-8648 in the U.S. and Canada and 1-617-614-2702 for international attendees. Corresponding slides will be available for this call on . The conference call will be hosted by William R. Johnson, Chairman, President and CEO.
www.heinz.com
www.heinz.com
SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This press release and our other public pronouncements contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words will, expects, anticipates, believes, estimates or similar expressions and include our expectations as to future revenue growth, earnings, capital expenditures and other spending, dividend policy, and planned credit rating, as well as anticipated reductions in spending. These forward-looking statements reflect managements view of future events and financial performance. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which may be beyond Heinzs control, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from such statements include, but are not limited to:
sales, earnings, and volume growth,
general economic, political, and industry conditions, including those that could impact consumer spending,
competitive conditions, which affect, among other things, customer preferences and the pricing of products, production, and energy costs,
competition from lower-priced private label brands,
increases in the cost and restrictions on the availability of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and packaging materials, the ability to increase product prices in response, and the impact on profitability,
the ability to identify and anticipate and respond through innovation to consumer trends,
the need for product recalls,
the ability to maintain favorable supplier and customer relationships, and the financial viability of those suppliers and customers,
currency valuations and devaluations and interest rate fluctuations,
changes in credit ratings, leverage, and economic conditions and the impact of these factors on the cost of borrowing and access to capital markets,
our ability to effectuate our strategy, which includes our continued evaluation of potential acquisition opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other initiatives, including our ability to identify, finance and complete these initiatives, and our ability to realize anticipated benefits from them,
the ability to successfully complete cost reduction programs and increase productivity,
the ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses,
new products, packaging innovations, and product mix,
the effectiveness of advertising, marketing, and promotional programs,
supply chain efficiency,
cash flow initiatives,
risks inherent in litigation, including tax litigation,
the ability to further penetrate and grow and the risk of doing business in international markets, including our emerging markets, economic or political instability in those markets, and the performance of business in hyperinflationary environments, such as Venezuela, and the uncertain global macroeconomic environment and sovereign debt issues, particularly in Europe,
changes in estimates in critical accounting judgments and changes in laws and regulations, including tax laws,
the success of tax planning strategies,
the possibility of increased pension expense and contributions and other people-related costs,
the potential adverse impact of natural disasters, such as flooding and crop failures,
the ability to implement new information systems and potential disruptions due to failures in information technology systems,
with regard to dividends, dividends must be declared by the Board of Directors and will be subject to certain legal requirements being met at the time of declaration, as well as our Boards view of our anticipated cash needs, and
other factors described in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2010 and reports on Forms 10-Q thereafter.
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the securities laws.
ABOUT HEINZ: H.J. Heinz Company, offering Good Food Every Day is one of the worlds leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz provides superior quality, taste and nutrition for all eating occasions whether in the home, restaurants, the office or on-the-go. Heinz is a global family of leading branded products, including Heinz Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta and infant foods (representing over one third of Heinzs total sales), Ore-Ida potato products, Weight Watchers Smart Ones entrees, T.G.I. Fridays snacks, and Plasmon infant nutrition. Heinz is famous for its iconic brands on six continents, showcased by Heinz Ketchup, The Worlds Favorite Ketchup.
CONTACT: H.J. Heinz Company Media: Michael Mullen, 412-456-5751 or Investors: Margaret Nollen, 412-456-1048
Michael.mullen@us.hjheinz.com


