FILE:HNZ/HNZ-8K-20100217161317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): February 17, 2010
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
412-456-5700 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
GENERAL
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Attached is H.J. Heinz Company's press release dated February 17, 2010 furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 This press release presents the business measure of organic sales growth, which is defined as either volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. This measure is utilized by senior management to provide investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.
This press release also presents the business measure of operating free cash flow, which is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment.  This measure is utilized by senior management and the board of directors to gauge our business operating performance, including the progress of management to profitably monetize low return assets.
The limitation of operating free cash flow is that it adjusts for cash used for capital expenditures and cash received from disposals of property, plant and equipment, the net of which is no longer available to the Company for other purposes. Management compensates for this limitation by using the GAAP operating cash flow number as well. Operating free cash flow does not represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures and does not provide insight to the entire scope of the historical cash inflows or outflows of our operations that are captured in the other cash flow measures reported in the statement of cash flows.
Disclosed on Exhibit 99.1 is supplemental information regarding reconciliation and calculation of the non-GAAP measures discussed above in connection with the expected financial results for the third quarters ended January 27, 2010 and January 28, 2009, respectively.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Heinz Expects to Report Third-Quarter EPS of Around 82 Cents from Continuing Operations; Company Raises Fiscal 2010 EPS Outlook to a Range of $2.82 to $2.85
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 17, 2010--H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE: HNZ) expects to report strong third-quarter earnings per share of around 82 cents from continuing operations and is raising its Fiscal 2010 outlook for EPS from continuing operations to a range of $2.82 to $2.85, Heinz Chairman, President and CEO William R. Johnson announced today at the annual conference of the Consumer Analyst Group of New York (CAGNY).
Reconciliations of non-GAAP amounts are set forth in the attached financial tables. Organic sales are defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. Operating Free Cash Flow is defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment.
In a presentation today at the CAGNY conference in Boca Raton, Florida, Mr. Johnson said:
On a continuing operations basis, Heinz expects to report approximately 3% growth in organic sales, almost 14% growth in operating income and very strong earnings per share of around 82 cents for the third quarter ended January 27, despite a higher tax rate. Importantly, the third quarter is expected to mark our 19 consecutive quarter of organic sales growth.
th
Mr. Johnson said: Our expected third-quarter results reflect dynamic growth in Emerging Markets and volume growth of around 4% in our U.S. Retail business and around 9% in the U.K. business, driven by robust marketing initiatives.
He noted that the third quarter is expected to show substantial improvement in margins, a more than 40% increase in marketing investments and exceptionally strong operating free cash flow of around $425 million, up more than 80% from a year ago.
Mr. Johnsons presentation focused on the state of the Packaged Foods industry and how Heinz is more nimble, focused, and stronger than ever, and why it is, therefore, well-positioned for the long term in this changing and challenging environment.
Here are other highlights of Mr. Johnsons presentation today.
The State of the Packaged Foods Industry
Mr. Johnson said there are four reasons why I believe the industry has a strong upside:
First, the growth potential of Emerging Markets, where the ranks of new middle-class, brand-conscious consumers are increasing at a rapid rate;
Second, the industrys renewed focus on innovation and marketing in response to the challenge of store brands;
Third, the opportunity to improve margins; and
Finally, the consolidation mood among manufacturers and customers.
Heinz Dividend
Mr. Johnson said Heinz is delivering very strong cash flow and, to that end, we expect to deliver a dividend increase for Fiscal 2011 commensurate with our strong profit growth.
Emerging Markets
Mr. Johnson said, Emerging Markets represent a target-rich base of consumers who are likely to spend more and more of their income on branded packaged foods as they prosper.
He said, Emerging Markets are on track to deliver at least 20% of Heinzs total sales by 2013, more than double their contribution five years ago and that is just the beginning. Heinz is well-positioned in Emerging Markets, with strong brands, talented local management, and localized manufacturing, supported by the advantage of global scale.
Heinz Marketing Initiatives
Mr. Johnson discussed the Companys increased marketing investments and new marketing initiatives that helped drive volume growth in the third-quarter, led by the U.S. Retail and U.K. businesses.
We now anticipate that marketing spending will grow at least 20% this year (Fiscal 2010), versus the Company's original projections of 7-10%, Mr. Johnson said.
A new marketing campaign in the U.K. called is driving significant volume and market share growth while enhancing our iconic consumer equity, Mr. Johnson said.
It has to be Heinz
In the U.S., Heinz has launched a Consumer Value Program, initially focused on Heinz Ketchup and now expanding to Weight Watchers Smart Ones, Ore-Ida and brands like Classico and TGI Fridays. Supported by increased marketing and innovation, the early results for the program are encouraging with improving shares and volume trends, Mr. Johnson said.
Heinz Ketchup
Referring to Heinz Ketchup, Mr. Johnson said, Globally, Ketchup remains a significant growth opportunity. He added, We are turning our focus to markets where the penetration of Heinz Ketchup has substantial room for growth like Germany, France and Sweden. Driving penetration in Europe is a big opportunity for Heinz.
Infant/Nutrition
I believe the greatest long-term opportunity for Heinz resides at the intersection of our highest-growth category, Infant/Nutrition, and our fast-growing Emerging Markets, Mr. Johnson said. Growing from a base of jarred foods and cereals, our Infant/Nutrition business has been expanding into the white space of Emerging Markets while extending our reach through up-aging into toddler foods, and down-aging into formula.
Mr. Johnson said the Company plans to launch Heinz infant formula in Russia and China, where we have great expectations.
Private Label / Store Brands
Let me say right here that the Private Label battle is far from over, but it is equally true that well-managed brands can still win as our recent U.K. results show, Mr. Johnson said.
He added, I continue to believe that the biggest casualties of the weakened economy will ultimately be tertiary brands with poor consumer equities. Strong brands or category leaders like Heinz that leverage consumer insights to drive innovative and successful new product development should win.
Productivity Improvements
Mr. Johnson said, We have established a goal of delivering better than $1 billion in incremental cost savings over the next five years through our global supply chain initiatives, including the continued rollout of the Companys Global Performance System and Project Keystone.
These global initiatives are aimed at realizing economies of scale and reducing costs by leveraging people, process and technology across the global supply chain, he added.
Industry Consolidation
Mr. Johnson said, On the subject of industry consolidation, the industrial logic has never been more compelling. Ultimately, however, the goal is to win by creating value in the most efficient and effective manner possible, whether it be by organic growth, M&A, or transformative initiatives and for that reason, I dont see consolidation as a necessity.
Q3 Earnings Release
Heinz will host a conference call and Webcast for Securities Analysts and Media (listen only) to discuss the Companys Third-Quarter Fiscal 2010 results and its Fiscal 2010 outlook at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time on Thursday, February 25, 2010.
The meeting will be hosted by:
Art Winkleblack, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Ed McMenamin, Senior Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller
Margaret Nollen, Vice President, Investor Relations
The call and presentation slides also will be available to the general public in real-time on .
www.heinz.com
Participants:
Institutional Investors/Analysts  U.S./Canada Dial-In: (800) 933-5758 Institutional Investors/Analysts  International/Local Dial-In: (706) 758-0005
Listen Only:
Media  U.S./Canada Dial-In: (800) 955-1760 Media  International/Local Dial-In: (706) 758-0940
:
SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release and our other public pronouncements contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words will, expects, anticipates, believes, estimates or similar expressions and include our expectations as to future revenue growth, earnings, capital expenditures and other spending, dividend policy, and planned credit rating, as well as anticipated reductions in spending. These forward-looking statements reflect managements view of future events and financial performance. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which may be beyond Heinzs control, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from such statements include, but are not limited to:
sales, earnings, and volume growth,
general economic, political, and industry conditions, including those that could impact consumer spending,
competitive conditions, which affect, among other things, customer preferences and the pricing of products, production, and energy costs,
competition from lower-priced private label brands,
increases in the cost and restrictions on the availability of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and packaging materials, the ability to increase product prices in response, and the impact on profitability,
the ability to identify and anticipate and respond through innovation to consumer trends,
the need for product recalls,
the ability to maintain favorable supplier and customer relationships, and the financial viability of those suppliers and customers,
currency valuations and devaluations and interest rate fluctuations,
changes in credit ratings, leverage, and economic conditions and the impact of these factors on the cost of borrowing and access to capital markets,
our ability to effectuate our strategy, which includes our continued evaluation of potential acquisition opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other initiatives, including our ability to identify, finance and complete these initiatives, and our ability to realize anticipated benefits from them,
the ability to successfully complete cost reduction programs and increase productivity,
the ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses,
new products, packaging innovations, and product mix,
the effectiveness of advertising, marketing, and promotional programs,
supply chain efficiency,
cash flow initiatives,
risks inherent in litigation, including tax litigation,
the ability to further penetrate and grow and the risk of doing business in international markets, economic or political instability in those markets, particularly in Venezuela, and the performance of business in hyperinflationary environments,
changes in estimates in critical accounting judgments and changes in laws and regulations, including tax laws,
the success of tax planning strategies,
the possibility of increased pension expense and contributions and other people-related costs,
the potential adverse impact of natural disasters, such as flooding and crop failures,
the ability to implement new information systems and potential disruptions due to failures in information technology systems,
with regard to dividends, dividends must be declared by the Board of Directors and will be subject to certain legal requirements being met at the time of declaration, as well as our Boards view of our anticipated cash needs, and
other factors described in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2009.
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the securities laws.
ABOUT HEINZ: H.J. Heinz Company, offering Good Food Every Day is one of the worlds leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz provides superior quality, taste and nutrition for all eating occasions whether in the home, restaurants, the office or on-the-go. Heinz is a global family of leading branded products, including Heinz Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta and infant foods (representing over one third of Heinzs total sales), Ore-Ida potato products, Weight Watchers Smart Ones entrees, T.G.I. Fridays snacks, and Plasmon infant nutrition. Heinz is famous for its iconic brands on six continents, showcased by Heinz Ketchup, The Worlds Favorite Ketchup.
CONTACT: H.J. Heinz Company Media: Michael Mullen, 412-456-5751 or Investors: Margaret Nollen, 412-456-1048
Michael.mullen@us.hjheinz.com


