FILE:HNZ/HNZ-8K-20120829071527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
Attached is H. J. Heinz Companys press release dated August 29, 2012, furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
This press release presents the Companys results excluding charges for productivity initiatives.  Such charges include costs associated with targeted workforce reductions, asset write-offs associated with factory closures, and other implementation costs taken in Fiscal 2012 to accelerate growth.  Management believes that this measure provides useful information to investors because it is the profitability measure we use to evaluate earnings performance on a comparable year-over-year basis. The adjustments are charges for non-recurring productivity initiatives that, in managements judgment, significantly affect the year-over-year assessment of operating results.  In addition, these results are used in reporting to our executive management and as a component of the Board of Directors measurement of our performance for incentive compensation purposes. These non-GAAP measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the comparable GAAP measures.
 
This press release presents the business measure of organic sales growth, which is defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. This measure is utilized by senior management to provide investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis. The limitation of this measure is its exclusion of the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures.
 
This press release also presents certain financial measures and certain outlook on a constant currency basis. Constant currency is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year), and the impact of current year foreign currency translation hedges. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of financial results. Management provides outlook on a constant currency basis because of the volatility of foreign exchange rates and because it believes that such presentation facilitates a period-to-period comparison. However, a limitation of the use of the constant currency results as a performance measure is that it does not reflect the impact of exchange rates on financial results when comparing to the prior period. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP.   
 
Disclosed on Exhibit 99.1 is supplemental information regarding reconciliation and calculation of the non-GAAP measures discussed above in connection with the financial results for the first quarter ended July 29, 2012 and July 27, 2011, respectively.
 
ITEM 7.01  REGULATION FD
 
Attached and furnished as Exhibit 99.2 is a five-year unaudited Summary of Financial Statements that is also being posted in connection with the Companys investor and analyst call on August 29, 2012.  This five-year summary reflects recast financial information which reports the operating results of the U.S. Foodservice frozen desserts business, which was sold during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)         Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: August 29, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Fiscal 2013 First-Quarter Results  Continuing Operations, Excluding Fiscal 2012 Productivity Charges:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of non-GAAP amounts are set forth in the attached financial tables. Results excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012 represent the Companys reported results adjusted to exclude charges for workforce reductions, factory closures and other implementation costs taken in Fiscal 2012 to accelerate growth.
 
Organic sales are defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures.
 
Operating free cash flow is defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment.
 
Also, constant currency as used in this press release is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year) and the impact of current-year foreign currency translation hedges.
 
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 29, 2012--H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE:HNZ) today reported strong first-quarter results, with growth of 10.1% in earnings per share from continuing operations (excluding special charges a year ago). The results reflected double-digit sales growth in Emerging Markets, improved results in the U.S. and Australia, higher volume and pricing, improved productivity and a favorable tax rate.
 
Heinz delivered strong results and our 29 consecutive quarter of organic sales growth, despite the difficult economic environment, higher commodity costs and headwinds from foreign currency, said Chairman, President and CEO William R. Johnson. Heinz is off to a good start in Fiscal 2013, led by our trio of growth engines  Emerging Markets, Global Ketchup and our Top 15 Brands.
th
 
 
 
 
 
Continuing Operations
 
In the fiscal quarter ended July 29, reported sales declined 1.5% to $2.79 billion, reflecting the unfavorable impact of 5.6% from foreign currency exchange rates. Net pricing increased 2.3%, led by Emerging Markets, as well as the U.K. and the U.S. Volume increased 2.5%, led by strong growth in Emerging Markets, as well as growth in Japan, the U.K. and the U.S. Divestitures reduced total sales by 0.6%, primarily reflecting the exit from the Boston Marketlicense in the U.S. and the sale of a small soup business in Germany.
 
 
Heinz delivered organic sales growth of 4.8%, led by Emerging Markets, which posted organic sales growth of 19.3% for the quarter (11.2% reported). Emerging Markets represented a record 26% of total Company sales.
 
The Company's Top 15 Brands achieved organic sales growth of 5.9% (0.1% reported), led by Quero, Master, Golden Circle, ABC, Weight Watchers Smart Ones, Heinz and Ore-Ida. Global Ketchup delivered organic sales growth of 3.7% (1.2% decline on a reported basis), led by strong growth in Brazil, Russia and China.
 
On a reported basis, gross profit grew 1.9% to $1 billion and gross margin increased 120 basis points to 35.9%. Excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012, gross profit decreased 1.3%, largely due to a $55 million unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, and gross margin increased 10 basis points. The gross margin improvement was driven by higher pricing and productivity, which more than offset higher commodity costs.
 
Marketing for the first quarter increased 4.5% on a constant currency basis (2.4% decline on a reported basis) as the Company continued to invest behind its leading brands.
 
Reported SG&A expenses (excluding marketing) decreased 3.8% to $476 million. SG&A as a percentage of sales declined to 17.1% from 17.5% a year ago, due to effective cost management, the overlap of prior-year productivity charges and the impact of foreign exchange. Excluding charges for productivity initiatives a year ago, SG&A (excluding marketing) decreased 2.0% and declined to 17.1% of sales from 17.2%. During the quarter, Heinz increased investments in Project Keystone, the Companys global initiative to upgrade and harmonize systems and processes; and in greater capabilities in Emerging Markets.
 
Operating income grew 10.7% to $410 million. Excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012, operating income was virtually flat due to a 5.3% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange (up 5.1% on a constant currency basis).
 
The effective tax rate for the current quarter was 17.7% compared to a prior year reported rate of 23.3% (24.0% excluding charges for productivity initiatives). The Company continues to expect a full-year tax rate in the low twenties for Fiscal 2013.
 
Net income from continuing operations grew 23.2% to $279 million from $227 million a year ago. Excluding charges for productivity initiatives a year ago, net income rose 9.5%, also impacted by 5.5% of unfavorable foreign exchange.
 
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations grew 24.3% to $0.87 from $0.70 a year ago. Excluding charges for productivity initiatives last year, EPS grew 10.1% from $0.79 a year ago. EPS this year was reduced by $0.04 from unfavorable foreign currency translation and translation hedges.
 
On a constant currency, continuing operations basis, sales grew 4.2%, operating income increased 5.1% and EPS rose 15.2%, which excludes non-recurring items in the prior year. Total Company net income including discontinued operations was $258 million; and EPS grew to $0.80.
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinued Operations
 
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Heinz completed the previously announced sale of its U.S. Foodservice frozen desserts business. This transaction resulted in a $31.5 million pre-tax ($20.4 million after-tax) loss, which has been recorded in discontinued operations. The frozen desserts business had reported sales of $2.5 million in the first quarter, versus $17.0 million a year ago.
 
Fiscal 2013 Outlook
 
Our strong first-quarter results put Heinz on track to deliver our previously announced outlook for Fiscal 2013, Mr. Johnson said.
 
For the full year in Fiscal 2013, Heinz expects:
 
 
 
 
FIRST-QUARTER OPERATING RESULTS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
North American Consumer Products
 
Reported sales decreased 2.0% to $759 million, while organic sales increased 0.9%. Net pricing increased 1.0%. Overall, volume was flat as the U.S. retail business delivered 1.2% organic growth, which was offset by a decline in Canada. New product innovations, (e.g. Ore-IdaGrillers, new Smart Onesbreakfasts and meals), and new package sizes and product formats contributed growth, as did increased sales of frozen potatoes. These gains were partially offset by the Companys decision to exit T.G.I. Fridays frozen meals. Sales were also unfavorably impacted by 1.8% from the decision to exit the Boston Marketlicense, which has been classified as a divestiture. Unfavorable Canadian exchange translation rates decreased sales 1.1%. Operating income decreased 3.9% to $183 million, down 2.9% on a constant currency basis.
 
 
 
 
Europe
 
Reported sales declined 7.2% to $778 million, due to an 8.8% impact from unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates. Organic sales grew by 2.0% in a difficult economic environment. Net pricing increased 2.9%, largely driven by the U.K., Benelux and Eastern Europe. Volume decreased 0.9%, reflecting weak economies and soft category sales in Continental Europe and Italy, partially offset by strength in Eastern Europe (especially Russia) and the U.K. Operating income was flat at $137 million but increased almost 8.0% on a constant currency basis.
 
Asia/Pacific
 
Reported sales decreased 1.9% to $658 million as unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates decreased sales by 6.1%. Organic sales increased 4.1%, including pricing of 1.4%. Volume increased 2.7%, reflecting growth in Indonesia, India, China and Japan, partially offset by planned declines in Long Fong frozen products in China, reflecting the significant streamlining of that business in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2012. Operating income increased 18.9% to $73 million and increased almost 30.0% on a constant currency basis. Australias operating income doubled in the quarter as a result of last years productivity initiatives, SKU rationalization and improved operations.
 
U.S. Foodservice
 
Both reported and organic sales grew 2.4% to $315 million. Pricing increased sales 2.6% while volume remained relatively flat. Operating income rose 12.7% to $37 million.
 
Rest of World
 
Reported sales increased 16.5% to $281 million, as unfavorable foreign exchange translation decreased sales by 15.1%. Organic sales grew 31.7%, including pricing of 6.8%. Volume increased 24.9%, driven by Brazil, where the Heinz and Quero brands delivered strong normalized volume growth of 36.0%; and the business benefitted from an extra month of results in the quarter due to an accounting calendar change. The increase in Brazil was partially offset by softness in Venezuela, reflecting the economic environment. Operating income decreased 4.0% to $31 million, but increased 3.0% on a constant currency basis despite overlapping very strong profit results in the first quarter of Fiscal 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call/Webcast on First-Quarter Fiscal 2013 Results
 
H.J. Heinz Company will host a conference call and Webcast for Securities Analysts and Media (listen only) to discuss the Companys first-quarter Fiscal 2013 results and its Fiscal 2013 outlook today, August 29, 2012, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.
 
The meeting will be hosted by:
 
 
 
 
A Webcast of the meeting and the presentation slides will be available to the general public in real-time and archived for playback on the Company Website, .
www.Heinz.com
 
Live Event Dial-in Details:
 
Participants:
Institutional Investors/Analysts  U.S. Dial-In: 1-866-515-2913
Institutional Investors/Analysts  International Dial-In: 1-617-399-5127
Passcode: Heinz Earnings
 
Listen Only:
Media  U.S. Dial-In: 1-877-280-4954
Media  International Dial-In: 1-857-244-7311
Passcode: Heinz Earnings
 
 
 
 
 
SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
 
This press release and our other public pronouncements contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words will, expects, anticipates, believes, estimates or similar expressions and include our expectations as to future revenue growth, earnings, capital expenditures and other spending, dividend policy, and planned credit rating, as well as anticipated reductions in spending. These forward-looking statements reflect managements view of future events and financial performance. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which may be beyond Heinzs control, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from such statements include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the securities laws.
 
ABOUT HEINZ: H.J. Heinz Company, offering Good Food Every Day is one of the worlds leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz provides superior quality, taste and nutrition for all eating occasions whether in the home, restaurants, the office or on-the-go. Heinz is a global family of leading branded products, including Heinz Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta and infant foods (representing over one third of Heinzs total sales), Ore-Ida potato products, Weight Watchers Smart Ones entres, T.G.I. Fridays snacks, and Plasmon infant nutrition. Heinz is famous for its iconic brands on six continents, showcased by Heinz Ketchup, The Worlds Favorite Ketchup.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTACT:
H.J. Heinz Company
Media:
Michael Mullen, 412-456-5751
Michael.mullen@us.hjheinz.com
or
Investors:
Margaret Nollen, 412-456-1048
Mary Ann Bell, 412-237-9760
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


