FILE:HNZ/HNZ-8K-20121120071032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported):
November 20, 2012
 
 
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
412-456-5700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
GENERAL
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
Attached is H. J. Heinz Companys press release dated
November 20, 2012
, furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
This press release presents the Companys results excluding charges for productivity initiatives.  Such charges include costs associated with targeted workforce reductions, asset write-offs associated with factory closures, and other implementation costs taken in Fiscal 2012 to accelerate growth.  Management believes that this measure provides useful information to investors because it is the profitability measure we use to evaluate earnings performance on a comparable year-over-year basis. The adjustments are charges for non-recurring productivity initiatives that, in managements judgment, significantly affect the year-over-year assessment of operating results.  In addition, these results are used in reporting to our executive management and as a component of the Board of Directors measurement of our performance for incentive compensation purposes. These non-GAAP measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the comparable GAAP measures.
 
This press release presents the business measure of organic sales growth, which is defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. This measure is utilized by senior management to provide investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis. The limitation of this measure is its exclusion of the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures.
 
This press release also presents certain financial measures and certain outlook on a constant currency basis. Constant currency is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year), and the impact of current year foreign currency translation hedges. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of financial results. Management provides outlook on a constant currency basis because of the volatility of foreign exchange rates and because it believes that such presentation facilitates a period-to-period comparison. However, a limitation of the use of the constant currency results as a performance measure is that it does not reflect the impact of exchange rates on financial results when comparing to the prior period. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP.   
 
Disclosed on Exhibit 99.1 is supplemental information regarding reconciliation and calculation of the non-GAAP measures discussed above in connection with the financial results for the
second
quarters and
six
months ended
October 28, 2012
and
October 26, 2011
, respectively.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)         Exhibits
Exhibit Number
(Referenced to
Item 601 of
Regulation S-K)
        
Description of Exhibit
99.1            H.J. Heinz Company Press Release dated
November 20, 2012
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated:
November 20, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
Exhibit No.
        
Description
99.1            H.J. Heinz Company Press Release dated
November 20, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
Heinz Reports Double-Digit EPS Growth to
$0.90
from Continuing Operations;
Reaffirms Previously Announced Fiscal 2013 Full-Year Sales and Profit Outlook
 
Fiscal
2013
Second
-Quarter Results  Continuing Operations, Excluding Fiscal 2012 Productivity Charges:
 
Reconciliations of non-GAAP amounts are set forth in the attached financial tables. Results excluding productivity charges in Fiscal 2012 represent the Companys reported results adjusted to exclude charges for targeted workforce reductions, asset write-offs associated with factory closures and other implementation costs taken in Fiscal 2012 to, among other things, increase manufacturing effectiveness and accelerate growth.
 
Organic sales are defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures.
 
Operating free cash flow is defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment.
 
Also, constant currency as used in this press release is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year) and the impact of current-year foreign currency translation hedges.
 
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
November 20, 2012
--H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE:HNZ) today reported solid
second
-quarter results, with growth of
11.1%
in earnings per share from continuing operations (excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012). The results were fueled by dynamic growth in Emerging Markets, continued growth in Global Ketchup and the Company's Top 15 Brands, and a favorable tax rate. This enabled Heinz to significantly increase investment in marketing and global capabilities to drive future growth.
 
Heinz delivered solid results while making significant investments in our businesses and brands to drive growth," said Chairman, President and CEO William R. Johnson. Notably, Heinz delivered its 30th consecutive quarter of organic sales growth, led by our trio of growth engines: Emerging Markets, Global Ketchup and the Company's Top 15 Brands."
Second
-Quarter Results - Continuing Operations
 
In the
second
quarter ended
October 28, 2012
, reported sales increased
0.5%
to
$2.83 billion
, with unfavorable foreign currency impacting sales by
2.4%
. Net pricing increased
1.9%
and volume grew
1.4%
. Divestitures reduced total sales by
0.4%
.
 
Heinz delivered organic sales growth of
3.3%
, led by Emerging Markets, which posted organic sales growth of
13.2%
for the quarter (
10.3%
reported). Organic sales growth was again impacted by prior-year decisions to exit T.G.I. Friday's frozen meals and downsize the Long Fong frozen business in China. Emerging Markets represented
23%
of total Company sales.
 
The Company's Top 15 Brands achieved organic sales growth of
4.6%
(
1.7%
reported), led by Heinz, Quero, ABC, Classico, Golden Circle, Master and Ore-Ida brands. Global Ketchup delivered organic sales growth of
5.0%
(
3.8%
on a reported basis), driven by strong performance in the U.S., Brazil and Russia.
 
Gross profit of
$1.01 billion
grew
4.7%
and gross margin increased
140
basis points to
35.8%
. Excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012, gross profit increased
1.8%
and gross margin increased
40
basis points, despite a
$22
million
unfavorable impact from foreign exchange and higher commodity costs.
 
Marketing increased
13.4%
on a constant currency basis (
10.0%
increase on a reported basis), reflecting a significant increase in the U.S. and continued support in Emerging Markets.
SG&A expenses (which excludes marketing) of
$502 million
increased
0.3%
to
17.8%
of sales, and increased
2.3%
excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012, reflecting strategic investments to drive growth primarily in Emerging Markets and global systems.
Operating income of
$392 million
grew
9.4%
. Excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012, operating income declined
1.0%
due to a
1.5%
unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
 
Heinz benefited from a previously projected low tax rate for the quarter. The effective tax rate was
9.6%
compared to
18.1%
a year ago or
19.6%
excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012. The Company expects a full-year tax rate of around 20%.
 
Net income from continuing operations of
$290 million
grew
22.3%
, or
10.4%
excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012.
 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of
$0.90
grew
23.3%
, or
11.1%
excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012. EPS was unfavorably impacted by
$0.02
from foreign currency translation and translation hedges.
 
On a constant currency, continuing operations basis, sales grew
2.9%
and excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012, operating income increased
0.5%
and EPS rose
13.6%
. Total Company net income, including discontinued operations, was
$289 million
and EPS grew to
$0.90
.
Fiscal 2013 Outlook
 
Heinz remains on track to deliver our previously announced sales and profit outlook for Fiscal 2013, Mr. Johnson said.
 
For the full year, Heinz expects:
 
The Heinz Board of Directors on November 14 approved the continuation of the Company's share repurchase program by authorizing the multi-year repurchase of up to 15,000,000 additional shares.
SECOND
-QUARTER OPERATING RESULTS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
North American Consumer Products
Sales of
$795 million
increased
0.1%
, while increasing
0.4%
on an organic basis. Volume increased 1.2%, driven by Heinz Gravy and Ketchup, Classico pasta sauces and Ore-Ida frozen potatoes, partially offset by the exit of T.G.I. Friday's frozen meals. Net pricing declined 0.8%. Sales were unfavorably impacted
0.6%
from the exit of the Boston Market
 
license. Favorable Canadian exchange translation rates increased sales
0.3%
. Operating income of
$190 million
decreased
5.7%
, reflecting a significant increase in marketing.
Europe
 
Sales of
$808 million
declined
4.2%
, while increasing
0.1%
on an organic basis. Volume increased
0.3%
as strong growth in Russia and the U.K. was partially offset by declines in Italy and The Netherlands. Net pricing decreased
0.2%
. Divestitures decreased sales by 0.6%. Unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates reduced sales
3.8%
. Operating income of
$140 million
declined
2.8%
, reflecting the impact of foreign currency and higher marketing investment.
 
Asia/Pacific
 
Sales of
$606 million
grew
2.3%
, while increasing
4.1%
on an organic basis. Volume increased
1.9%
led by Master soy sauce and Heinz Ketchup and sauces in China. These results reflect the planned decreases in Long Fong frozen products. Pricing increased
2.2%
, driven primarily by Indonesia. Unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates reduced sales
1.9%
. Operating income of
$50 million
grew
24.5%
, reflecting strong results in both Developed and Emerging Markets.
 
U.S. Foodservice
 
Both reported and organic sales grew
4.1%
to
$348 million
. Volume was unchanged in the quarter as growth in Heinz Ketchup was largely offset by a decline in soup. Pricing increased sales
4.1%
, largely due to prior-year increases to offset commodity cost increases. Operating income of
$44 million
rose
26.8%
, due to higher sales and the benefit from productivity initiatives.
 
Rest of World
 
Sales of
$270 million
grew
8.6%
, while increasing
19.8%
on an organic basis. Volume increased
6.5%
, led by Quero in Brazil. Pricing increased
13.3%
, led by Brazil and Venezuela. Unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates reduced sales
11.3%
. Operating income of
$27 million
decreased
15.6%
from a very strong growth quarter last year, reflecting unfavorable foreign exchange, inflation in Venezuela and capability investments in Brazil.
Year-to-Date
For the
six
months ended
October 28, 2012
, sales of
$5.62 billion
decreased
0.5%
, and increased 4.0% on an organic basis. Operating income of $802 million increased 10.1%, while decreasing 0.6% excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012. Net income of
$569 million
from continuing operations grew
22.7%
. Excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012, net income rose
9.9%
. The year-to-date tax rate was
13.8%
versus
20.7%
last year. The lower tax rate reflects foreign tax planning initiatives and has helped fund marketing capability investments in the business. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of
$1.76
grew
23.1%
and increased
10.0%
excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012. EPS this year was reduced by
$0.07
from unfavorable foreign currency translation. On a constant currency, continuing operations basis, sales grew
3.5%
and excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012, operating income grew 2.8% and EPS rose
14.4%
. Total Company net income including discontinued operations was
$547 million
and EPS grew to
$1.70
.
Discontinued Operations
 
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Heinz completed the previously announced sale of its U.S. Foodservice frozen desserts business. This transaction resulted in a
$32.7 million
pre-tax (
$21.1 million
after-tax) loss, which has been recorded in discontinued operations. The frozen desserts business had reported sales of $35 million in the six months ended
October 26, 2011
.
Conference Call/Webcast on
Second
-Quarter Fiscal
2013
Results
 
H.J. Heinz Company will host a conference call and Webcast for Securities Analysts and Media (listen only) to discuss the Companys
second
-quarter Fiscal
2013
results and its Fiscal
2013
outlook today,
November 20, 2012
at 8:00 a.m. Eastern time.
 
The meeting will be hosted by:
 
A Webcast of the meeting and the presentation slides will be available to the general public in real-time and archived for playback on the Company Website,
www.Heinz.com
.
 
Live Event Dial-in Details:
 
Participants:
Institutional Investors/Analysts  U.S. Dial-In: 1-866-318-8614
Institutional Investors/Analysts  International Dial-In: 1-617-399-5133
Passcode: Heinz Earnings
 
Listen Only:
Media  U.S. Dial-In: 1-877-280-4953
Media  International Dial-In: 1-857-244-7310
Passcode: Heinz Earnings
SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
 
This press release and our other public pronouncements contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words will, expects, anticipates, believes, estimates or similar expressions and include our expectations as to future revenue growth, earnings, capital expenditures and other spending, dividend policy, and planned credit rating, as well as anticipated reductions in spending. These forward-looking statements reflect managements view of future events and financial performance. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which may be beyond Heinzs control, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from such statements include, but are not limited to:
 
requirements being met at the time of declaration, as well as our Boards view of our anticipated cash needs, and
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the securities laws.
 
ABOUT HEINZ: H.J. Heinz Company, offering Good Food Every Day is one of the worlds leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz provides superior quality, taste and nutrition for all eating occasions whether in the home, restaurants, the office or on-the-go. Heinz is a global family of leading branded products, including Heinz Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta and infant foods (representing over one third of Heinzs total sales), Ore-Ida potato products, Weight Watchers Smart Ones entres, T.G.I. Fridays snacks, and Plasmon infant nutrition. Heinz is famous for its iconic brands on six continents, showcased by Heinz Ketchup, The Worlds Favorite Ketchup.
H.J. Heinz Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Income
H.J. Heinz Company and Subsidiaries
Segment Data
(a) Includes costs in Fiscal 2012 associated with targeted workforce reductions, asset write-offs associated with factory closures and other implementation costs in order to increase manufacturing effectiveness and accelerate productivity on a global scale. Other implementation costs primarily include professional fees and relocation costs for the establishment of a European supply chain hub in the Netherlands.
H.J. Heinz Company and Subsidiaries
Non-GAAP Performance Ratios
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP performance measures and ratios, used in managing the business, may provide users of this financial information with additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior periods. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. The following table provides the calculation of the non-GAAP performance ratios discussed in the Company's press release dated
November 20, 2012
:
Fiscal 2013 Second Quarter Sales Variances
The following table illustrates the components of the change in net sales versus the prior year for each of the five reported business segments.
Fiscal 2012 Results Excluding Charges for Productivity Initiatives
The following table reconciles the Company's Fiscal 2012 reported results to results excluding charges for productivity initiatives.
Constant Currency
The following table reconciles the Company's results from continuing operations excluding charges for productivity initiatives in Fiscal 2012 to constant currency results for the current period.
(a) Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency translation rates and acquisitions/divestitures.
(b) Excludes costs in Fiscal 2012 associated with targeted workforce reductions, asset write-offs associated with factory closures and other implementation costs in order to increase manufacturing effectiveness and accelerate productivity on a global scale. Other implementation costs primarily include professional fees and relocation costs for the establishment of a European supply chain hub in the Netherlands.
(c) Excludes currency translation versus FY12 average rates as well as current year translation hedge.
(d) Emerging Markets sales in Fiscal 2013 now include the markets of Papua New Guinea, South Korea and Singapore. Sales in these markets were included in Developed Markets sales in the prior year and therefore, were treated as an acquisition variance when comparing current year sales to the prior year for Emerging Markets.
(Totals may not add due to rounding)
H.J. Heinz Company
Non-GAAP Performance Ratios
Sales Variances
The following table illustrates the components of the change in net sales versus the prior year.
____________________________________________________
(a) Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency translation rates and acquisitions/divestitures.
(b) Fiscal 2007 had one less week than Fiscal 2006.
(c) Fiscal 2012 had 2 extra business days than Fiscal 2011.
(d) Amounts have not been restated for the disposal of the U.S. Foodservice frozen desserts business, which was reported in discontinued operations in Fiscal 2013.
(Totals may not add due to rounding)
CONTACTS:
H.J. Heinz Company
Media:
Michael Mullen, 412-456-5751
Michael.mullen@us.hjheinz.com
or
Investors:
Mary Ann Bell, 412-237-9760
Maryann.bell@us.hjheinz.com


