FILE:HNZ/HNZ-8K-20120217071012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): February 17, 2012
H.J. HEINZ COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
412-456-5700 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
GENERAL
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Attached is H. J. Heinz Companys press release dated February 17, 2012, furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
This press release presents the Companys results in Fiscal 2012 excluding charges for productivity initiatives.  Such charges include costs associated with targeted workforce reductions, asset write-offs associated with factory closures, and other implementation costs taken in Fiscal 2012 to accelerate growth.  Management believes that this measure provides useful information to investors because it is the profitability measure we use to evaluate earnings performance on a comparable year-over-year basis. The adjustments are charges for non-recurring productivity initiatives that, in managements judgment, significantly affect the year-over-year assessment of operating results.  In addition, these results are used in reporting to our executive management and as a component of the Board of Directors measurement of our performance for incentive compensation purposes. These non-GAAP measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the comparable GAAP measures.
This press release also presents the business measure of organic sales growth, which is defined as either volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. This measure is utilized by senior management to provide investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis.  The limitation of this measure is its exclusion of the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures.
This press release also presents the business measure of operating free cash flow, which is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment.  This measure is utilized by senior management and the board of directors to gauge our business operating performance, including the progress of management to profitably monetize low return assets.
The limitation of operating free cash flow is that it adjusts for cash used for capital expenditures and cash received from disposals of property, plant and equipment, the net of which is no longer available to the Company for other purposes. Management compensates for this limitation by using the GAAP operating cash flow number as well. Operating free cash flow does not represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures and does not provide insight to the entire scope of the historical cash inflows or outflows of our operations that are captured in the other cash flow measures reported in the statement of cash flows.
This press release also presents certain financial measures and certain outlook on a constant currency basis. Constant currency is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year), and the impact of current year foreign currency translation hedges.  Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of financial results. Management provides outlook on a constant currency basis because of the volatility of foreign exchange rates and because it believes that such presentation facilitates a period-to-period comparison.   However, a limitation of the use of the constant currency results as a performance measure is that it does not reflect the impact of exchange rates on financial results when comparing to the prior period. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP.   
Disclosed on Exhibit 99.1 is supplemental information regarding reconciliation and calculation of the non-GAAP measures discussed above in connection with the financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended January 25, 2012 and January 26, 2011, respectively.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)       Exhibits
Exhibit Number
(Referenced to
Item 601 of
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Heinz Reports Third-Quarter EPS of $0.95 before Special Items ($0.88 reported) and 7.2% Sales Growth Fueled by Emerging Markets and Global Ketchup
Fiscal 2012 Third-Quarter Results
Emerging Markets delivered 19.8% organic sales growth (volume plus price) (39.7% reported) and accounted for more than 20% of total Company sales.
Global Ketchup delivered 8.8% organic sales growth (8.6% reported).
Top 15 brands delivered organic sales growth of 5.9% (10.6% reported) led by the Heinz
, Master
and ABC
brands.
27
th
consecutive quarter of organic sales growth, up 4.6% (7.2% reported).
EPS grew 13.1% excluding special items to $0.95 (4.8% reported to $0.88).
Net income grew 12.3% excluding special items (4.0% reported), driven by higher operating income excluding special items and a lower tax rate.
Fiscal 2012 Full-Year Outlook
Heinz narrowed its Fiscal 2012 full-year EPS outlook to the middle of its original range at $3.32 to $3.34 on a reported basis, excluding charges for productivity initiatives. Included in this range is an expected benefit from foreign exchange of approximately $0.05.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP amounts are set forth in the attached financial tables. Results excluding charges for productivity initiatives represent the Companys reported results adjusted to exclude charges for workforce reductions, factory closures and other implementation costs taken in Fiscal 2012 to accelerate growth.
Organic sales are defined as volume plus price or total sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures. Operating free cash flow is defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures net of proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment. Also, constant currency as used in this press release is defined as the reported amount adjusted for translation (the effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding prior year) and the impact of current-year foreign currency translation hedges.
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 17, 2012--H.J. Heinz Company (NYSE:HNZ) today reported third-quarter sales growth of 7.2%, led by dynamic growth in Emerging Markets and higher Global Ketchup sales. Earnings per share increased to $0.95 before special items ($0.88 after special charges for productivity initiatives). EPS grew 4.8% on a reported basis and 13.1% excluding special items.
Heinz Chairman, President and CEO William R. Johnson said: Heinz delivered sales growth of more than 7% and higher EPS in the third quarter while continuing to invest in marketing, new capabilities and productivity initiatives that will make the Company even more competitive in a rapidly changing world. Our strong performance was fueled by our accelerating growth in Emerging Markets and our strength in Ketchup and Sauces, as well as solid growth in our Top 15 brands. Heinz delivered our 27 consecutive quarter of organic sales growth with each of our operating segments contributing.
th
Sales in the fiscal quarter ended January 25, 2012 grew 7.2% to $2.92 billion.
Emerging Markets were the biggest growth driver in the quarter as they delivered organic sales growth of 19.8% (39.7% reported) and generated more than 20% of the Companys total sales in the quarter. The organic growth was fueled by strong performances in the Heinz and Master brands in China, the Heinz brand in Russia and Latin America, Complan nutritional beverages in India and ABC sauces and drinks in Indonesia. Heinzs acquisition of Quero brand tomato-based sauces, ketchup and vegetables in Brazil drove an additional 3.6% increase in total Company sales in the third quarter.
Global Ketchup sales grew 8.8% organically (8.6% reported) driven by growth in Latin America and in U.S. Foodservice, which was aided by the continued successful expansion of Heinz Dip & Squeeze Ketchup, an innovative dual-function product that delivers more ketchup than traditional packets. Heinz delivered record market shares across Continental Europe, Mexico and Canada.
The Companys Top 15 brands delivered organic sales growth of 5.9%, (10.6% reported) fueled by growth in the Heinz, Master and ABC brands. Marketing increased 10% year-to-date as Heinz focuses on driving innovation and growth in its core brands.
Overall, the Company's global portfolio delivered organic sales growth of 4.6%, reflecting a 4.2% increase in net pricing and 0.4% growth in volume. Acquisitions, net of divestitures, increased reported sales by 2.9%. Unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates decreased sales by 0.4%.
Excluding charges for productivity initiatives, gross profit grew 3.4% to $1.06 billion, largely due to higher pricing, productivity improvements and the acquisition of Quero, partially offset by higher commodity costs. Gross profit margin, excluding special items, decreased 140 basis points to 36.4% as higher commodity costs and an unfavorable sales mix more than offset higher pricing and productivity improvements. Including special items, gross profit grew 1.2% to $1.04 billion and gross profit margin decreased 210 basis points to 35.7%.
Excluding charges for productivity initiatives, SG&A increased 2.9% to $607 million and decreased as a percentage of sales to 20.8% from 21.7%. The dollar increase reflected the Quero acquisition, higher marketing spending and incremental investments in Project Keystone, the Companys ongoing initiative to harmonize processes and systems on a global scale. The decline of SG&A as a percentage of sales reflected aggressive cost management in Developed Markets. Including special items, SG&A rose 4.8% to $618 million and decreased as a percentage of sales to 21.2% from 21.7%.
Excluding charges for productivity initiatives, operating income grew 4.1% to $456 million. Including special items, operating income decreased 3.6% to $422 million.
Excluding charges for productivity initiatives, the effective tax rate for the third quarter was 20.0% (18.8% reported) versus 26.1% a year ago. Heinz expects the full-year tax rate excluding special items to be in the mid-to-low 20s.
Excluding charges for productivity initiatives, net income grew 12.3% to $307 million from $274 million a year ago. Including special items, reported net income grew 4.0% to $285 million.
Heinz reported operating free cash flow of $247 million in the quarter.
Productivity Investments
Heinz, as announced previously, is incurring special charges in Fiscal 2012 for initiatives to improve global productivity and manufacturing efficiency. In the third quarter, Heinz recorded pre-tax charges of $34 million or $0.07 per share related to these initiatives. Cash costs for these initiatives were $34 million in the quarter. The Company believes it is on track with these projects in terms of timing, cost and benefits.
For the full year, the projected cost impact of these projects is approximately $215 million of operating income, $0.50 of EPS and $150 million of cash flow. Under these initiatives, Heinz plans to exit up to eight factories. Certain projects included in the plan are subject to consultation and any necessary agreements being reached with appropriate employee representative bodies, trade unions and works councils as required by law.
Heinz has been focused this year on reducing fixed costs by increasing manufacturing efficiency, reducing overcapacity and streamlining our operations. Through Project Keystone and the creation of our first centralized European supply chain hub, we are establishing the foundation for long-term productivity across the supply chain while also enabling better leverage of our global scale, Mr. Johnson said.
Fiscal 2012 Outlook
Heinz is narrowing its full-year EPS outlook to a range of $3.32 to $3.34 on a reported basis, excluding the charges for productivity initiatives. Included in this range is an expected benefit from foreign exchange of approximately $0.05.
Heinz continues to expect constant currency growth within its original range of 7 to 8% on sales and 6 to 8% on EPS for Fiscal Year 2012, excluding special items but including the incremental spending on Project Keystone.
Heinz still expects strong operating free cash flow of approximately $1.15 billion for Fiscal 2012 excluding special items and around $1 billion on a reported basis.
OPERATING RESULTS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
North American Consumer Products
Sales of the North American Consumer Products segment decreased 1.1% to $830 million on a reported basis. Organic sales increased 1.3%. Net pricing increased 3.3%. New products and improvements in frozen snacks and Heinz gravy added volume, however, volume declined 2.0% as Heinz took pricing on Ore-Ida frozen potatoes, Classico pasta sauces and Heinz Ketchup. Sales were also unfavorably impacted by 2.1% from the Company's decision to divest the Boston Market license. Operating income decreased 3.5% to $227 million, reflecting lower sales and higher commodity costs despite a reduction in general and administrative expenses.
In response to the consumers focus on value in the difficult U.S. economic environment, Heinz is developing a range of new products with accessible price points for a variety of channels, including retail, dollar and drug stores. The Company is currently launching the first round of these new products including:
A new 10-ounce size of Heinz Ketchup in innovative stand-up pouch packaging with a spout at a suggested retail price of $0.99.
Smaller versions of its classic Heinz Yellow Mustard, Heinz Worcestershire sauce and Heinz 57 sauce, each priced around $1.
Heinz Home Style Beans in four varieties.
A new one-pound version of Ore-Ida French fries at a suggested price of $1.99.
Europe
Sales of the Europe segment increased 2.7% to $855 million on a reported basis. Organic sales increased 4.4%. Net pricing increased 3.4%. Volume increased 1.0%, reflecting the strong performance of ketchup across Europe, soup in the U.K., and canned vegetables and Heinz branded sauces in Russia, partially offset by declines in Italian infant nutrition. Unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates decreased sales by 1.6%. Operating income decreased 1.1% to $162 million, reflecting higher commodity costs and higher general and administrative expenses due to investments in Emerging Markets and Project Keystone.
Asia/Pacific
Sales of the Asia/Pacific segment grew 8.2% to $632 million on a reported basis. Organic sales increased 6.6%. Constant currency sales in Emerging Markets increased by 17.9%, while Developed Markets constant currency sales were flat. Pricing increased 4.1% and volume increased 2.5%. Significant volume growth occurred in China, particularly in Master and other foodservice sauces, and infant feeding products, as well as ABC sauces and drinks in Indonesia, and Ore-Ida frozen potatoes and Heinz sauces in Japan. Volume declined in Australia. Favorable foreign exchange translation rates increased sales by 1.6%. Operating income increased by 25.0% to $54 million, primarily due to growth in our Emerging Markets businesses. Australia, while down, has improved sequentially this year.
U.S. Foodservice
Sales of the U.S. Foodservice segment increased 1.7% to $360 million on a reported basis. Organic sales increased 1.7%. Net pricing increased sales 3.3%. Branded Ketchup volume increased, aided by Heinz Dip & Squeeze, while overall volume decreased by 1.5%, reflecting ongoing weakness in restaurant foot traffic at our key customers, as well as promotional timing and lower sales of non-branded products. Operating income was up slightly at $48 million, as higher commodity costs were offset by lower general and administrative expenses.
Rest of World
Sales for the Rest of World segment more than doubled (112.4%) to $242 million on a reported basis. Organic sales increased 30.2%. The Quero acquisition in Brazil, which was completed at the end of Fiscal 2011, increased sales 86.6%. Higher pricing across the region increased sales by 20.1%, primarily due to price increases in Latin America taken to offset inflation. Volume increased 10.1%, driven by increases in Heinz Ketchup and sauces in Latin America and numerous products in the Middle East. Foreign exchange translation rates decreased sales 4.4%. Operating income increased 129.5% to $18 million, resulting from higher pricing and the Quero acquisition.
Year-To-Date
For the nine months ended January 25, 2012, sales increased 10.0% to $8.60 billion. Excluding charges for productivity initiatives, net income attributable to H.J. Heinz Company was $825 million compared to $766 million in the prior year, an increase of 7.7%. This increase was largely due to higher sales and a lower effective tax rate partially offset by a lower gross margin and investments in marketing, Emerging Markets capabilities and Project Keystone. Reported net income attributable to the H.J. Heinz Company was $748 million, a decrease of 2.3%.
Excluding charges for productivity initiatives, diluted earnings per share grew 7.2% to $2.54 from $2.37 in the prior year. EPS movements were favorably impacted by $0.08 from currency translation and translation hedges. Including special items, reported diluted earnings per share declined 2.5% to $2.31.
On a constant currency basis, sales rose 7.1%. Constant currency EPS increased 3.8%, excluding special items.
MEETING WITH SECURITIES ANALYSTS  INTERNET BROADCASTS
Heinz will host an investor and analyst call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call will be Webcast live on and will be archived for playback. Participants (institutional investors and analysts) can call 1-866-318-8618 in the U.S. and Canada and 1-617-399-5137 internationally. A listen-only broadcast for media is available on 866-953-6857 in the U.S. and Canada and 1-617-399-3481 for international attendees. Corresponding slides will be available for this call on . The conference call will be hosted by:
www.heinz.com
www.heinz.com
Art Winkleblack, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Ed McMenamin, Senior Vice President, Finance
Margaret Nollen, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations & Global Program Management Officer
SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This press release and our other public pronouncements contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words will, expects, anticipates, believes, estimates or similar expressions and include our expectations as to future revenue growth, earnings, capital expenditures and other spending, dividend policy, and planned credit rating, as well as anticipated reductions in spending. These forward-looking statements reflect managements view of future events and financial performance. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which may be beyond Heinzs control, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from such statements include, but are not limited to:
sales, volume, earnings, or cash flow growth,
general economic, political, and industry conditions, including those that could impact consumer spending,
competitive conditions, which affect, among other things, customer preferences and the pricing of products, production, and energy costs,
competition from lower-priced private label brands,
increases in the cost and restrictions on the availability of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and packaging materials, the ability to increase product prices in response, and the impact on profitability,
the ability to identify and anticipate and respond through innovation to consumer trends,
the need for product recalls,
the ability to maintain favorable supplier and customer relationships, and the financial viability of those suppliers and customers,
currency valuations and devaluations and interest rate fluctuations,
changes in credit ratings, leverage, and economic conditions and the impact of these factors on our cost of borrowing and access to capital markets,
our ability to effectuate our strategy, including our continued evaluation of potential opportunities, such as strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, and other initiatives, our ability to identify, finance, and complete these transactions and other initiatives, and our ability to realize anticipated benefits from them,
the ability to successfully complete cost reduction programs and increase productivity,
the ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses,
new products, packaging innovations, and product mix,
the effectiveness of advertising, marketing, and promotional programs,
supply chain efficiency,
cash flow initiatives,
risks inherent in litigation, including tax litigation,
the ability to further penetrate and grow and the risk of doing business in international markets, particularly our emerging markets; economic or political instability in those markets, strikes, nationalization, and the performance of business in hyperinflationary environments, in each case such as Venezuela; and the uncertain global macroeconomic environment and sovereign debt issues, particularly in Europe,
changes in estimates in critical accounting judgments and changes in laws and regulations, including tax laws,
the success of tax planning strategies,
the possibility of increased pension expense and contributions and other people-related costs,
the potential adverse impact of natural disasters, such as flooding and crop failures, and the potential impact of climate change,
the ability to implement new information systems and potential disruptions due to failures in information technology systems, and risks associated with social media,
with regard to dividends, dividends must be declared by the Board of Directors and will be subject to certain legal requirements being met at the time of declaration, as well as our Boards view of our anticipated cash needs, and
other factors described in Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2011 and reports on Forms 10-Q thereafter.
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the securities laws.
ABOUT HEINZ: H.J. Heinz Company, offering Good Food Every Day is one of the worlds leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz provides superior quality, taste and nutrition for all eating occasions whether in the home, restaurants, the office or on-the-go. Heinz is a global family of leading branded products, including Heinz Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta and infant foods (representing over one third of Heinzs total sales), Ore-Ida potato products, Weight Watchers Smart Ones entrees, T.G.I. Fridays meals & snacks, and Plasmon infant nutrition. Heinz is famous for its iconic brands on six continents, showcased by Heinz Ketchup, The Worlds Favorite Ketchup.
(a) Includes costs associated with targeted workforce reductions, asset write-offs associated with factory closures and other implementation costs in order to increase manufacturing effectiveness and accelerate productivity on a global scale. Other implementation costs primarily include professional fees, contract termination and relocation costs for the establishment of a European supply chain hub in the Netherlands and to improve manufacturing efficiencies in the Asia/Pacific segment.
Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available:
http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=50172147&lang=en
CONTACT: H.J. Heinz Company Media: Michael Mullen, 412-456-5751 or Investors: Margaret Nollen, 412-456-1048 Mary Ann Bell, 412-237-9760
Michael.mullen@us.hjheinz.com


