FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20021204143723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ----------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): NOVEMBER 20, 2002 BMC SOFTWARE, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 001-16393 74-2126120 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) Identification No.) 2101 CITYWEST BOULEVARD HOUSTON, TEXAS 77042-2827 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (713) 918-8800
ITEM 2. ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS. On November 20, 2002, BMC Software, Inc. ("BMC") completed its acquisition of the Remedy business (the "Remedy Business") from Peregrine Systems, Inc. ("Peregrine") for $355 million in cash and the assumption of certain operating liabilities of the Remedy Business. The Remedy Business focuses on automating service-related business processes through a complete suite of best practice service management applications, including IT service management and customer service and support solutions. The acquisition was consummated in accordance with the terms of an Acquisition Agreement, dated as of September 20, 2002, by and among Peregrine, Peregrine Remedy, Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary of Peregrine ("Remedy") and BMC (the "Acquisition Agreement") and the amendments thereto (the "Amendments"). The $355 million purchase price is subject to an upward or downward adjustment on a dollar-for-dollar basis to the extent that the acquired current assets of the Remedy Business less the assumed liabilities (excluding deferred revenues) of the Remedy Business as of November 20, 2002 calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is greater or less than $28.67 million. Of the $355 million purchase price, $10 million is being held in escrow in accordance with the terms and conditions of an escrow agreement by and among J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, as escrow agent, BMC and Peregrine to satisfy any obligations of Peregrine to repay a portion of the purchase price pursuant to the purchase price adjustment or to indemnify BMC against any claims made by BMC against Peregrine for any breaches of its representations or warranties contained in or made pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement, as amended by the Amendments. Prior to closing of the acquisition, pursuant to a Debtor In Possession Credit Agreement, dated as of September 24, 2002, by and among Peregrine, certain subsidiaries of Peregrine and BMC, BMC provided Peregrine with debtor-in-possession financing of $54 million. This financing, which was netted against the purchase price, was terminated upon the closing of the acquisition. The purchase price was funded with BMC's available cash. The purchase price for the Remedy Business was determined through negotiations between BMC and Peregrine. Prior to the acquisition, there were no material relationships between Peregrine or Remedy, on the one hand, and BMC, any of BMC's affiliates, directors or officers or any associate of such directors or officers, on the other hand. Copies of the Acquisition Agreement, the Amendments and the Escrow Agreement are filed herewith as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (a) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BUSINESSES ACQUIRED.
Financial statements of the Remedy Business have not been included herein but are expected to be included in an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed not later than 60 days after the date that this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed. (c) EXHIBITS. The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K: 2.1 Acquisition Agreement, dated as of September 20, 2002, by and among BMC Software, Inc., Peregrine Systems, Inc. and Peregrine Remedy, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of BMC Software, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002). 2.2 First Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated as of September 24, 2002, by and among BMC Software, Inc., Peregrine Systems, Inc. and Peregrine Remedy, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of BMC Software, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002). 2.3 Second Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated as of October 25, 2002, by and among BMC Software, Inc., Peregrine Systems, Inc. and Peregrine Remedy, Inc. 2.4 Third Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2002, by and among BMC Software, Inc., Peregrine Systems, Inc. and Peregrine Remedy, Inc. 2.5 Escrow Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2002, by and among J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, Peregrine Systems, Inc. and BMC Software, Inc. SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. BMC SOFTWARE, INC. Date: December 4, 2002 By: /s/ Robert H. Whilden, Jr. ----------------------------------------- Robert H. Whilden, Jr. Senior Vice President and General Counsel
EXHIBIT INDEX 2.1 Acquisition Agreement, dated as of September 20, 2002, by and among BMC Software, Inc., Peregrine Systems, Inc. and Peregrine Remedy, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of BMC Software, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002). 2.2 First Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated as of September 24, 2002, by and among BMC Software, Inc., Peregrine Systems, Inc. and Peregrine Remedy, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of BMC Software, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002). 2.3 Second Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated as of October 25, 2002, by and among BMC Software, Inc., Peregrine Systems, Inc. and Peregrine Remedy, Inc. 2.4 Third Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2002, by and among BMC Software, Inc., Peregrine Systems, Inc. and Peregrine Remedy, Inc. 2.5 Escrow Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2002, by and among J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, Peregrine Systems, Inc. and BMC Software, Inc.

EXHIBIT 2.3 SECOND AMENDMENT TO ACQUISITION AGREEMENT This Second Amendment to Acquisition Agreement (this "Second Amendment") is made as of this 25th day of October, 2002 by and among Peregrine Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Stockholder"), Peregrine Remedy, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and BMC Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Purchaser"). This Second Amendment amends the Acquisition Agreement dated as of September 20, 2002 among the Stockholder, the Company and the Purchaser (the "Original Agreement") as amended by the First Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated as of September 24, 2002, among the Stockholder, the Company and the Purchaser (the "First Amendment") and incorporates by reference the proposed Sale Order attached hereto as Exhibit A. The Original Agreement as amended by the First Amendment is referred to herein as the "Acquisition Agreement." Capitalized terms used in this Second Amendment that are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Acquisition Agreement. RECITALS: WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 11.9 of the Acquisition Agreement, the parties to the Acquisition Agreement desire to amend the Acquisition Agreement. NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, agree as follows: ARTICLE I. AMENDMENTS 1.1 Amendment of Section 1.1 of the Acquisition Agreement. (a) The definition of "Excluded Contracts" contained in Section 1.1 is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: "Excluded Contracts" means the following: (i) any contracts or agreements between the Stockholder or any of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) and the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, other than the Proprietary Rights Agreement; (ii) the Forbearance Agreement dated as of August 26, 2002, by and among the Stockholder, its Subsidiaries named therein and Fleet National Bank and financial institutions named therein as "Purchasers;" (iii) the Loan and Security Agreement by and among the Stockholder and certain of its Subsidiaries (including the Company) as "Borrowers," the financial institutions named therein as "Lenders" and Foothill Capital Corporation, as "Arranger and Administrative Agent" dated as of June 12, 2002 (as amended from time to time); 1
(iv) the Facility Funding Agreement dated September 20, 2002 between the Stockholder and Peregrine Systems Operations Limited; and (v) any Rejected Contracts. (b) Section 1.1 is hereby amended to add the following definition of "Potential Stockholder Contracts:" "Potential Stockholder Contracts" means (x) all contracts and agreements, existing as of the Closing Date, between the Stockholder or any of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) and any Third Party to the extent related to the sale, license, distribution, maintenance, services or escrow of any Company Products or Software Products, but excluding those portions of such agreements that do not relate to the Company Products or the Software Products, and (y) all of the Lease Agreements to which the Stockholder or one of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries) is a party. (c) Section 1.1 is hereby amended to add the following definition of "Rejected Contracts:" "Rejected Contracts" means all Potential Stockholder Contracts and all contracts and agreements described in clause (vii) of the definition of Purchased Assets, in each case that are specifically designated as "Rejected Contracts" by the Purchaser in a written notice delivered to the Stockholder prior to November 4, 2002. (d) The definition of "Retained Contracts" contained in Section 1.1 is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: "Retained Contracts" means, other than any Excluded Contracts, (i) any Material Contract, Lease Agreement or other contract, agreement, purchase order or similar right or commitment to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party and which was not entered into or amended after the date hereof in violation of Section 6.1, (ii) any contract or agreement, existing as of the Closing Date, between the Stockholder or any of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) and any Third Party related to the sale, license, distribution, maintenance services or escrow of any Company Products or Software Products, or (iii) any Lease Agreement to which the Stockholder or one of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries) is a party, in each case in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above, to the extent that (a) the counter-party's consent is required for a valid assignment thereof, (b) the requirement for such consent is not obviated by obtaining Bankruptcy Court authorization to assume and assign such agreement pursuant to Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code and (c) such counter-party's consent is not obtained prior to the Closing. (e) The definition of "Stockholder Contracts" contained in Section 1.1 is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: "Stockholder Contracts" means (x) all contracts and agreements, existing as of the Closing Date, between the Stockholder or any of its Subsidiaries (other than the 2
Company or any of its Subsidiaries) and any Third Party to the extent related to the sale, license, distribution, maintenance, services or escrow of any Company Products or Software Products, but excluding those portions of such agreements that do not relate to the Company Products or the Software Products, and (y) all of the Lease Agreements to which the Stockholder or one of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries) is a party, other than any Rejected Contracts. 1.2 Amendment of Section 2.5(a) of the Acquisition Agreement. Section 2.5(a) of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: (a) Upon approval of the Bid Procedures Motion and entry of the Bid Procedures Order by the Bankruptcy Court, the Stockholder and the Company shall be entitled to consider Acquisition Proposals from Third Parties as required by their respective fiduciary obligations as debtors-in-possession in the Bankruptcy Case; provided that the Stockholder and the Company shall require that any such Acquisition Proposal shall comply with the Bid Procedures Motion and the Bid Procedures Order, have a cash value of at least Three Hundred Sixty-Five Million Dollars ($365,000,000) (the "Upset Price") and that each incremental bid from any Person other than the Purchaser after the initial Qualified Bid equal to the Upset Price shall be at least One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) more than each prior bid. 1.3 Amendment of Section 6.4 of the Acquisition Agreement. Section 6.4 of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following clauses (g), (h) and (i) to Section 6.4: (g) The Stockholder and the Company shall, in their sole discretion, either reject the Rejected Contracts in the Bankruptcy Case, or retain the Rejected Contracts in the relevant bankruptcy estate of the Stockholder or the Company; provided, however, that neither the Stockholder nor the Company shall reject any of the Rejected Contracts that are Lease Agreements ("Rejected Lease Agreements") such that such rejection shall be effective prior to the thirtieth (30th) day immediately following the Closing Date (such thirty day period being referred to as the "Extension Period") without the prior written consent of the Purchaser. Notwithstanding anything in the definition of Excluded Liabilities to the contrary, the Purchaser hereby agrees to pay to the Stockholder or the Company in accordance with the terms of this clause (g) all administrative costs and expenses incurred by the Stockholder or the Company pursuant to the Rejected Contracts attributable to periods after the Closing Date and the amount of rejection damages arising out of the rejection of the Rejected Contracts (but excluding any such damages attributable to periods prior to the Closing Date), in each case as ordered by a final and non-appealable order (a "Final Rejection Order") of a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to applicable bankruptcy and non-bankruptcy law, including, without limitation, Section 502 of the Bankruptcy Code and state law mitigation requirements (collectively, the "Rejection Damages Amount"). The Stockholder and the Company agree that the Purchaser shall be a party in interest and shall have standing to participate in all proceedings and matters involving the rejection of such Rejected Contracts. Within five Business Days after entry of a Final Rejection Order in respect of a Rejected Contract, 3
the Purchaser shall pay the Rejection Damages Amount set forth in such order, by wire transfer of immediately available funds. (h) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (g) above to the contrary, if the Stockholder and the Company shall not have filed a motion to reject a Rejected Contract within 10 Business Days after the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall have no obligation or liability for any amount of the Rejection Damages Amount in respect of such Rejected Contract. (i) During the Extension Period, the Stockholder or the Company, as applicable, shall afford the Purchaser reasonable access to any real property subject to a Rejected Lease Agreement. 1.4 Amendment of Section 6.13 of the Acquisition Agreement. Section 6.13 of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: 6.13 Bankruptcy Release. Except for rights granted under and claims pursuant to any of the Acquisition Documents, the Confidentiality Agreement, the Financing Agreement or any other agreement between the Purchaser or its Subsidiaries on the one hand and the Stockholder or Company or their Subsidiaries on the other hand, the Stockholder and the Company, on behalf of themselves and each of their Subsidiaries and Affiliates (the "Releasing Parties"), effective as of the Closing, hereby releases, acquits, and forever discharges the Purchaser and each of its Subsidiaries and Affiliates and each of their respective present or former representatives, directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents (excluding any present or former representatives, directors, officers employees, attorneys and agents of the Stockholder, the Company or their Subsidiaries), and their successors and assigns (the "Released Parties"), from any and all claims, causes of action, demands, costs, debts, damages, obligations and liabilities, whether known or unknown, which the Releasing Parties have or may come to have against the Released Parties, whether directly, indirectly or derivatively, including, but not limited to, negligence or gross negligence, in connection with or related to their ownership or operation of the Business (the "Released Claims"). The Releasing Parties covenant not to sue the Released Parties on account of any Released Claim. The Sale Order shall provide that (i) the release of the Released Claims shall be final upon entry of the Sale Order and such release shall forever release, discharge and expunge such Released Claims, (ii) no order shall be entered in the bankruptcy case which in any way waives, limits or modifies the release or any rights of the Released Parties under the release or this agreement, and (iii) the release shall survive any dismissal of the bankruptcy case. 1.5 Amendment of Section 10.1 of the Acquisition Agreement. Sections 10.1(h)(iii) and (iv) of the Acquisition Agreement are hereby amended and restated to read in their entirety as follows: (iii) the Bankruptcy Case is dismissed, is converted to Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code or, prior to the time that a Sale Order entered by the Bankruptcy Court becomes final and nonappealable, a Trustee in respect of the Stockholder or the Company is appointed; 4
(iv) the Bid Procedures Order is not approved by the Bankruptcy Court by October 16, 2002, provided that, for purposes of this subclause (iv), the parties agree that the Bankruptcy Court approved the Bid Procedures Order on October 15, 2002, subject to entry of the Bid Procedures Order; 1.6 Amendment of Section 10.2 of the Acquisition Agreement. Sections 10.2(b) and (c) of the Acquisition Agreement are hereby amended and restated to read in their entirety as follows: (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.2(a), (x)(A) upon any termination pursuant to Section 10.1(f) as a result of any knowing misrepresentation by the Stockholder or the Company or any willful breach or non-performance by the Stockholder or the Company of any of its covenants, representations, warranties, conditions or agreements under this Agreement, the Stockholder or the Company will within three Business Days following notice of such termination pay to the Purchaser by wire transfer in immediately available funds to an account designated by the Purchaser $7,500,000 (the "Breach Payment"), or (B) upon any other termination of this Agreement (other than pursuant to Section 10.1(g)), the Stockholder or the Company will, in the case of termination by the Purchaser, within three Business Days following notice of such termination or, in the case of termination by the Stockholder or the Company, prior to such termination, pay to the Purchaser by wire transfer in immediately available funds to an account designated by the Purchaser on account of all of the Purchaser's costs and expenses $4,200,000.00 or if the Purchaser's actual costs and expenses shall exceed such amount, the actual amount of such costs and expenses up to $6,000,000.00 (the "Expense Payment") and (y) if within eight months after the date of any termination of this Agreement (other than pursuant to Section 10.1(g)), the Stockholder or the Company consummates a transaction that constitutes a Competing Proposal, the Stockholder or the Company will, prior to the consummation of such transaction, pay to the Purchaser by wire transfer in immediately available funds to an account designated by the Purchaser the Break-Up Fee less the Breach Payment or the Expense Payment in each case to the extent previously paid. The Purchaser shall not be permitted to credit bid the Break-Up Fee. However, if, at the auction of the assets provided for in the Bid Procedures Order, the Purchaser is the Successful Bidder (as such term is defined in the Bid Procedures Order) and another Qualified Bid (as such term is defined in the Bid Procedures Order) was submitted, then at the closing of the sale of such assets, the purchase price payable by the Purchaser pursuant to such Successful Bid (as such term is defined in the Bid Procedures Order) shall be reduced by $10,000,000.00 as credit for the Break-Up Fee. If the Stockholder or the Company shall fail to pay the Breach Payment, the Expense Payment or the Break-Up Fee due hereunder, the Stockholder or the Company shall pay the costs and expenses of the Purchaser in connection with any action, including the filing of any lawsuit or other legal Action, taken to collect payment, together with interest on the amount unpaid at the Specified Rate from the date such amounts were required to be paid until payment in full. The Stockholder and the Company shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of any Breach Payment, Expense Payment or Break-Up Fee and other amounts due under this Section 10.2(b). The Stockholder and the Company agree and acknowledge that the provisions in this Agreement for the payments contemplated by this Section 10.2(b) and the procedures embodied in Sections 6.4 and 5
6.5 hereof were material inducements for, and conditions, of the Purchaser's entry into this Agreement. The Stockholder and the Company agree and acknowledge that the Purchaser has, in reliance on the availability of the payment, reimbursement and procedures as set forth in this Agreement, researched the value of the Purchased Assets, has expended and will expend substantial resources and funds in connection with the purchase of the Purchased Assets, and is willing to enter into the Financing Agreement and to serve as a "stalking horse" in connection with the proposed sale of the Purchased Assets or the Business for purposes of promoting competitive bidding that otherwise would not have been made. The Stockholder and the Company acknowledge that the Purchaser has, by submitting the bid embodied in this Agreement, provided a benefit to the Stockholder's and the Company's estate by increasing the likelihood that the price at which the Purchased Assets or the Business is sold or otherwise disposed will reflect their true worth and that absent authorization of the payments contemplated by this Section 10.2(b), the Stockholder and the Company may lose the opportunity to obtain the highest and best available offer in respect of the Purchased Assets or the Business. (c) The Purchaser's right to payment of the Breach Payment, the Expense Payment and the Break-Up Fee and costs and expenses described in Section 10.2(b) shall have priority administrative claim status in the Bankruptcy Case pursuant to Section 507(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and shall be deemed to be an authorized draw under the Financing Agreement and the Purchaser shall be afforded all protection thereunder. ARTICLE II. GENERAL PROVISIONS 2.1 Effectiveness and Ratification. All of the provisions of this Second Amendment shall be effective as of the date hereof. Except as specifically provided for in this Second Amendment, the terms of the Acquisition Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed and remain in full force and effect. 2.2 Headings. The headings contained in this Second Amendment are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Second Amendment. 2.3 Severability. In the event that any provision of this Second Amendment or the application thereof becomes, or is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of this Second Amendment will continue in full force and effect and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances will be interpreted so as reasonably to effect the intent of the parties hereto. The parties further agree to replace such void or unenforceable provision of this Second Amendment with a valid and enforceable provision that will achieve, to the extent possible, the economic, business and other purposes of such void or unenforceable provision. 2.4 Amendment; Entire Agreement. Whenever the Acquisition Agreement is referred to in the Original Agreement, the First Amendment or in any other agreements, documents and instruments, such reference shall be deemed to be to the Original Agreement as amended by the First Amendment and this Second Amendment. The Acquisition Agreement and any schedules 6
or exhibits thereto, together with this Second Amendment, constitute the entire agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, other than the Confidentiality Agreement, by and between, the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and except as otherwise expressly provided herein. 2.5 Governing Law. This Second Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State without regard to any conflict or choice of law principles that would apply the substantive law of some other jurisdiction. All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Second Amendment shall be heard and determined in a Delaware state or federal court sitting in the City of Wilmington, and the parties hereto hereby irrevocable submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such action or proceeding and irrevocably waive and agree not to assert any defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such action or proceeding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon filing the Bankruptcy Case, the Bankruptcy Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all disputes arising under or in connection with the Acquisition Agreement, this Second Amendment, the Confidentiality Agreement or any Acquisition Document, and each party hereto hereby irrevocably submits and consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court for such purposes. 2.6 Rules of Construction. The parties hereto agree that they have been represented by counsel during the negotiation and execution of this Second Amendment and, therefore, waive the application of any law regulation, holding or rule of construction providing that ambiguities in an agreement or other document will be construed against the party drafting such agreement or document. 2.7 Counterparts. This Second Amendment may be executed by facsimile signature and in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 2.8 Specific Performance. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the failure of any party to this Second Amendment to perform its agreements and covenants hereunder, including its failure to take all actions as are necessary on its part to the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will cause irreparable injury to the other parties to this Second Amendment for which monetary damages, even if available, will not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, each of the parties hereto hereby consents to the granting of equitable relief (including specific performance and injunctive relief) by any Court of competent jurisdiction to enforce any party's obligations hereunder. The parties further agree to waive any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with the obtaining of any such equitable relief and that this Section 2.8 is without prejudice to any other rights that the parties hereto may have for any failure to perform this Second Amendment. [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, the Stockholder and the Purchaser have caused this Second Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized. BMC SOFTWARE, INC. By /s/ Robert H. Whilden, Jr. ---------------------------------------- Name: Robert H. Whilden, Jr. Title: Senior Vice President and General Counsel PEREGRINE SYSTEMS, INC. By /s/ Ken Sexton ---------------------------------------- Name: Ken Sexton Title: Chief Financial Officer PEREGRINE REMEDY, INC. By /s/ Ken Sexton ---------------------------------------- Name: Ken Sexton Title: Chief Financial Officer 8

EXHIBIT 2.4 THIRD AMENDMENT TO ACQUISITION AGREEMENT This Third Amendment to Acquisition Agreement (this "Third Amendment") is made as of this 18th day of November, 2002 by and among Peregrine Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Stockholder"), Peregrine Remedy, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and BMC Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Purchaser"). This Third Amendment amends the Acquisition Agreement dated as of September 20, 2002 among the Stockholder, the Company and the Purchaser (the "Original Agreement") as amended by the First Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated as of September 24, 2002, among the Stockholder, the Company and the Purchaser (the "First Amendment") and the Second Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated as of October 25, 2002, among the Stockholder, the Company and the Purchaser (the "Second Amendment"). The Original Agreement as amended by the First Amendment and the Second Amendment is referred to herein as the "Acquisition Agreement." Capitalized terms used in this Third Amendment that are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Acquisition Agreement. RECITALS: WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 11.9 of the Acquisition Agreement, the parties to the Acquisition Agreement desire to amend the Acquisition Agreement. NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, agree as follows: ARTICLE I. AMENDMENTS 1.1 Amendment of Section 1.1 of the Acquisition Agreement. (a) Clause (i) of the definition of "Assumed Liabilities" contained in Section 1.1 of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: (i) the obligations of the Sellers under the Assumed Contracts (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Assumed Contracts that have generated accounts receivable that have been sold or factored prior to the date hereof to one or more financial institutions) and the Company Plans, in each case existing as of the Closing Date; (b) Section 1.1 of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended to add the following definition of "EDS Contract:" "EDS Contract" means that certain Master Software License Agreement dated March 30, 2000 between the Stockholder and Electronic Data Systems Corporation, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated July 31, 2002 between the same parties and Amendment No. 2 dated September 4, 2002. (c) Section 1.1 of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended to add the following definition of "Fujitsu Contract:" 1
"Fujitsu Contract" means that certain Master Software License Agreement Number SP-US-003119V01, dated as of September 28, 2001, made by and between the Stockholder and Fujitsu Transaction Solutions Inc. (d) The definition of "Stockholder Contracts" contained in Section 1.1 of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: "Stockholder Contracts" means (x) all contracts and agreements, existing as of the Closing Date, between the Stockholder or any of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) and any Third Party to the extent related to the sale, license, distribution, maintenance, services or escrow of any Company Products or Software Products, but excluding those portions of such agreements that do not relate to the Company Products or the Software Products and excluding the Fujitsu Contract and the EDS Contract, and (y) all of the Lease Agreements to which the Stockholder or one of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries) is a party. 1.2 Amendment of Section 2.2 of the Acquisition Agreement. Section 2.2 of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: The purchase price (the "Purchase Price") for the Purchased Assets shall be (i) Three Hundred Fifty-Five Million Dollars ($355,000,000), as adjusted pursuant to Section 2.4 (the "Cash Purchase Price"), and (ii) assumption of the Assumed Liabilities. The Cash Purchase Price shall be payable as provided in Section 2.3(c). The payment of the Cash Purchase Price and assumption of the Assumed Liabilities is referred to herein as the "Consideration." 1.3 Amendment of Section 2.3(b) of the Acquisition Agreement. Section 2.3(b) of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended to delete the last two sentences of said Section. 1.4 Amendment of Section 2.3(c) of the Acquisition Agreement. Section 2.3(c) of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: (c) At the Closing, the Purchaser shall (i) deliver to the Sellers the Cash Purchase Price, less (A) the Escrow Amount (as defined below) and (B) any amounts outstanding under or owed pursuant to the Financing Agreement or the Promissory Note as of the Closing Date, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, pursuant to the instructions set forth on Schedule 2.3(c) of the Stockholder Disclosure Schedule, (ii) deliver and deposit Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000) (the "Escrow Amount") by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an escrow account with JP Morgan Chase Bank or, upon the mutual agreement of the Purchaser and the Stockholder, another national bank (the "Escrow Agent"), (iii) deliver to the Stockholder reasonable evidence of full payment and release of any amounts outstanding under or owed pursuant to the Financing Agreement and (iv) deliver instruments evidencing Purchaser's assumption and agreement to perform the Assumed Contracts in accordance with this Agreement in form reasonably satisfactory to the Stockholder and the Company. The Purchaser and the Stockholder further agree that the payment of the Consideration to Sellers contemplated by Section 2.2 or any payment required by Section 2.4 may be made to one or more Sellers that are designated by the Stockholder in writing as being authorized to act as agent 2
for the Sellers, whereupon each Seller shall be deemed to have received the Consideration allocable to the Purchased Assets owned by such Seller; provided, that the Stockholder shall ensure that its Subsidiaries receive fair value for the Purchased Assets owned by such Subsidiaries. The Escrow Amount together with all subsequent earnings on investments thereof while deposited with the Escrow Agent shall be referred to as the "Escrow Fund." The Escrow Fund shall be held by the Escrow Agent pursuant to the terms and conditions of an Escrow Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit E (the "Escrow Agreement") among the Purchaser, the Stockholder and the Escrow Agent. On or prior to the Closing, each of the Purchaser and the Stockholder shall execute and deliver the Escrow Agreement and shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Escrow Agent to execute and deliver the Escrow Agreement. 1.5 Amendment of Section 9.2 of the Acquisition Agreement. Section 9.2 of the Acquisition Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: 9.2 Tax Certificate. Not later than the later of 15 days following the Purchase Price Allocation becoming final and February 3, 2003, the Purchaser shall request (and the Stockholder shall provide reasonable cooperation and assistance to the Purchaser with respect to such request), pursuant to California Revenue & Taxation Code Section 6811, that the California State Board of Equalization either (i) issue the Stockholder a receipt showing that the Stockholder and its Subsidiaries have paid any amount for which the Stockholder and its Subsidiaries were liable, including with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or (ii) issue Purchaser a certificate stating that no amount is due. ARTICLE II. GENERAL PROVISIONS 2.1. Effectiveness and Ratification. All of the provisions of this Second Amendment shall be effective as of the date hereof. Except as specifically provided for in this Second Amendment, the terms of the Acquisition Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed and remain in full force and effect. 2.2 Headings. The headings contained in this Second Amendment are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Second Amendment. 2.3 Severability. In the event that any provision of this Second Amendment or the application thereof becomes, or is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of this Second Amendment will continue in full force and effect and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances will be interpreted so as reasonably to effect the intent of the parties hereto. The parties further agree to replace such void or unenforceable provision of this Second Amendment with a valid and enforceable provision that will achieve, to the extent possible, the economic, business and other purposes of such void or unenforceable provision. 3
2.4 Amendment; Entire Agreement. Whenever the Acquisition Agreement is referred to in the Original Agreement, the First Amendment or in any other agreements, documents and instruments, such reference shall be deemed to be to the Original Agreement as amended by the First Amendment and this Second Amendment. The Acquisition Agreement and any schedules or exhibits thereto, together with this Second Amendment, constitute the entire agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, other than the Confidentiality Agreement, by and between, the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and except as otherwise expressly provided herein. 2.5 Governing Law. This Second Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State without regard to any conflict or choice of law principles that would apply the substantive law of some other jurisdiction. All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Second Amendment shall be heard and determined in a Delaware state or federal court sitting in the City of Wilmington, and the parties hereto hereby irrevocable submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such action or proceeding and irrevocably waive and agree not to assert any defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such action or proceeding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon filing the Bankruptcy Case, the Bankruptcy Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all disputes arising under or in connection with the Acquisition Agreement, this Second Amendment, the Confidentiality Agreement or any Acquisition Document, and each party hereto hereby irrevocably submits and consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court for such purposes. 2.6 Rules of Construction. The parties hereto agree that they have been represented by counsel during the negotiation and execution of this Second Amendment and, therefore, waive the application of any law regulation, holding or rule of construction providing that ambiguities in an agreement or other document will be construed against the party drafting such agreement or document. 2.7 Counterparts. This Second Amendment may be executed by facsimile signature and in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 2.8 Specific Performance. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the failure of any party to this Second Amendment to perform its agreements and covenants hereunder, including its failure to take all actions as are necessary on its part to the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will cause irreparable injury to the other parties to this Second Amendment for which monetary damages, even if available, will not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, each of the parties hereto hereby consents to the granting of equitable relief (including specific performance and injunctive relief) by any Court of competent jurisdiction to enforce any party's obligations hereunder. The parties further agree to waive any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with the obtaining of any such equitable relief and that this Section 2.8 is without prejudice to any other rights that the parties hereto may have for any failure to perform this Second Amendment. 4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, the Stockholder and the Purchaser have caused this Third Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized. BMC SOFTWARE, INC. By /s/ Robert H. Whilden, Jr. ------------------------------------- Name: Robert H. Whilden, Jr. Title: Senior Vice President and General Counsel PEREGRINE SYSTEMS, INC. By /s/ Ken Sexton ------------------------------------- Name: Ken Sexton Title: Chief Financial Officer PEREGRINE REMEDY, INC. By /s/ Ken Sexton ------------------------------------- Name: Ken Sexton Title: Chief Financial Officer 5

EXHIBIT 2.5 EXECUTION VERSION ESCROW AGREEMENT THIS ESCROW AGREEMENT ("Escrow Agreement"), dated as of November __, 2002, is entered into by and among BMC Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Purchaser"), Peregrine Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Stockholder"), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, a New York State bank with an office in Houston, Texas, as escrow agent ("Escrow Agent"). Defined terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Acquisition Agreement (the "Acquisition Agreement") dated as of September 20, 2002, among the Purchaser, the Stockholder and Peregrine Remedy, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"). WHEREAS, the parties to the Acquisition Agreement have agreed to establish an escrow fund, consisting of a portion of the Cash Purchase Price, from which any amount payable to the Purchaser pursuant to Section 2.4 or Article VIII of the Acquisition Agreement may be satisfied; and WHEREAS, the Escrow Agent has agreed to act as the agent and custodian for the Escrow Funds (defined below) for the benefit of the parties to the Acquisition Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this Escrow Agreement and the Acquisition Agreement, the parties hereby agree as follows: ARTICLE 1 ESTABLISHMENT OF ESCROW (a) The Purchaser and the Stockholder each hereby appoint the Escrow Agent to act as agent and custodian for the Escrow Funds for their respective benefit pursuant to the terms of this Escrow Agreement, and the Escrow Agent hereby accepts such appointment pursuant to such terms. (b) Pursuant to the terms of Section 2.3(c) of the Acquisition Agreement, the Purchaser will cause to be delivered to, and directly deposited with, the Escrow Agent $10,000,000 in cash. Such deposit, with all interest and other earnings accumulated thereon, less any distributions made pursuant to this Escrow Agreement shall be referred to herein as the "Escrow Funds." (c) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Escrow Funds shall be held exclusively for the benefit of the Stockholder, and the Stockholder shall have full and exclusive equitable title and entitlement to the Escrow Funds. (d) The Escrow Funds shall be retained, managed and disbursed by the Escrow Agent subject to the terms and conditions of this Escrow Agreement.
ARTICLE 2 INVESTMENT OF THE ESCROW FUNDS (a) The Escrow Agent shall invest and reinvest the Escrow Funds in the JPMorgan Prime #830 Money Market Fund, unless otherwise instructed in writing by the Purchaser and the Stockholder. Such written instructions, if any, referred to in the foregoing sentence shall specify the type and identity of the investments to be purchased and/or sold and shall also include the name of the broker-dealer, if any, which the Purchaser and the Stockholder direct the Escrow Agent to use in respect of such investment, any particular settlement procedures required, if any (which settlement procedures shall be consistent with industry standards and practices), and such other information as the Escrow Agent may require. The Escrow Agent shall not be liable for failure to invest or reinvest funds absent sufficient written direction. Unless the Escrow Agent is otherwise directed in such written instructions, the Escrow Agent may use a broker-dealer of its own selection, including a broker-dealer owned by or affiliated with the Escrow Agent or any of its affiliates. The Escrow Agent or any of its affiliates may receive compensation with respect to any investment directed hereunder. It is expressly agreed and understood by the parties hereto that the Escrow Agent shall not in any way whatsoever be liable for losses on any investments, including, but not limited to, losses from market risks due to premature liquidation or resulting from other actions taken pursuant to this Escrow Agreement. (b) Receipt, investment and reinvestment of the Escrow Funds shall be confirmed by the Escrow Agent as soon as practicable by account statement, and any discrepancies in any such account statement shall be noted by the Purchaser and the Stockholder to the Escrow Agent within 30 calendar days after receipt thereof. Failure to inform the Escrow Agent in writing of any discrepancies in any such account statement within said 30-day period shall conclusively be deemed confirmation of such account statement in its entirety. For purposes of this paragraph, each account statement shall be deemed to have been received by the party to whom directed on the earlier to occur of (i) actual receipt thereof and (ii) three "Business Days" (hereinafter defined) after the deposit thereof in the United States Mail, postage prepaid. The term "Business Day" shall mean any day of the year, excluding Saturday, Sunday and any other day on which national banks are required or authorized to close in Houston, Texas. ARTICLE 3 DISBURSEMENT OF ESCROW FUNDS The Escrow Agent is hereby authorized and directed to make disbursements of the Escrow Funds pursuant to any of the following: (a) If the Purchaser believes that it is entitled pursuant to Section 2.4 or Article VIII of the Acquisition Agreement to payment of any amount from the Stockholder or the Company (a "Claim"), the Purchaser may at any time and from time to time prior to 5:00 p.m. Houston time on the first anniversary of the Closing Date (the "Expiration Date") deliver a written notice of such Claim ("Notice of Claim") to the Escrow Agent with a copy to the Stockholder stating the amount of such Claim, briefly describing the basis for the Claim and stating the date that the Stockholder is deemed to have received notice of such Claim from the Purchaser pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement (the "Claim Notice Date"). If the Escrow Agent receives a Notice of Claim from the Purchaser prior to the Expiration Date, unless prior to 5:00 p.m. Houston time on 2
the 20th day following the Claim Notice Date (the "Claim Notice Period") the Escrow Agent receives from the Stockholder a written notice of objection (the "Notice of Objection") to all or any part of such Claim, which Notice of Objection shall: (i) attach a copy of such Notice of Claim, (ii) state that, in the good faith opinion of the Stockholder, the Claim described in the Notice of Claim is invalid (either in whole or in part, and if the Stockholder objects in part shall specify, including the dollar amount, that portion of the related Claim that the Stockholder does not dispute) under the terms of either Section 2.4 or Article VIII of the Acquisition Agreement, (iii) give the reasons for the alleged invalidity, and (iv) state that, based on such alleged invalidity, the Stockholder objects to the payment of all or such portion of the Escrow Funds to the Purchaser, the Escrow Agent shall, after expiration of the Claim Notice Period and upon receipt of written instructions signed by the Purchaser, release to the Purchaser a cash amount from the Escrow Fund equal to the lesser of (i) the amount so claimed in such Notice of Claim and (ii) the remaining amount of the Escrow Funds. (b) If, within the Claim Notice Period, the Escrow Agent receives a Notice of Objection from the Stockholder as aforesaid, the Escrow Agent shall: (i) upon receipt of written instructions signed by the Purchaser, release to the Purchaser a cash amount from the Escrow Fund equal to the lesser of (x) such portion (if any) of the amount claimed in the Notice of Claim as is not disputed by the Stockholder in the Notice of Objection and (y) the remaining amount of the Escrow Funds; and (ii) hold the disputed amount of such Claim to be distributed or otherwise dealt with in accordance with the terms of this Escrow Agreement, including as provided in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) below. (c) Upon receipt of written instructions signed by both the Purchaser and the Stockholder and otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to the Escrow Agent, in accordance with such instructions. (d) Upon receipt of written instructions signed by the Purchaser and certifying that such Claim is made pursuant to Section 2.4 of the Acquisition Agreement and accompanied by a certificate of the CPA Firm (as defined in the Acquisition Agreement) setting forth the CPA Firm's calculation of the Net Asset Amount (as defined in the Acquisition Agreement) and its calculation of the amount due the Purchaser. (e) Upon receipt of written instructions signed by the Purchaser and accompanied by a final and non-appealable order, decree or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States of America in a proceeding to which the Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Stockholder, on the other hand, are parties directing such payment to the Purchaser. (f) All expenses of the Escrow Agent shall be charged to the Escrow Funds pursuant to Article 10 below. (g) As expressly permitted by this Escrow Agreement and upon written notice to the Purchaser and the Stockholder. 3
ARTICLE 4 DISPOSITION OF ESCROW FUNDS (a) The Escrow Funds or any remaining portion thereof held hereunder shall be released by the Escrow Agent to the Stockholder within five Business Days after the Expiration Date (the "Distribution Date"); provided, however, that, if a Notice of Claim shall have been delivered to the Escrow Agent prior to the Expiration Date and the Claim set forth in such Notice of Claim is pending and unresolved on the Distribution Date, only the amount of the Escrow Funds in excess of that required to satisfy such Claim, as set forth in the Notice of Claim, and any expenses of the Escrow Agent as permitted in Article 10 shall be released to the Stockholder. At such later time as all Claims have been finally resolved and the amount of all such Claims has been paid to the Purchaser, the balance of the Escrow Funds then held hereunder, if any, shall be disbursed to the Stockholder. (b) The Escrow Funds established by this Escrow Agreement shall continue in effect until release of the entire Escrow Funds pursuant to the provisions hereof. ARTICLE 5 PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE ESCROW AGENT (a) The Escrow Agent agrees to hold the Escrow Funds under the terms and conditions of this Escrow Agreement and to perform the acts and duties imposed upon it hereby. If at any time in the performance of its duties hereunder it is necessary for the Escrow Agent to receive, accept or act upon any notice or writing purported to have been executed or issued by or on behalf of the Purchaser or the Stockholder, it shall not be necessary for the Escrow Agent to ascertain whether or not the person or persons who have executed, signed or otherwise issued or authenticated said writing are authorized so to execute, sign or otherwise issue or authenticate said writing, or that they are the same persons named therein or otherwise to pass upon any requirements of such instruments that may be essential for their validity. (b) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Escrow Agent may act upon any written instructions given jointly by the Purchaser and the Stockholder. (c) The Escrow Agent shall not be personally liable for any act taken or omitted by it hereunder if taken or omitted by it in good faith and in the exercise of its own best judgment. (d) The Escrow Agent may resign as such following the giving of 30 days' prior written notice to the Purchaser and the Stockholder. Similarly, the Escrow Agent may be removed and replaced following the giving of 30 days' prior written notice to the Escrow Agent by the Purchaser and the Stockholder. In either event, the duties of the Escrow Agent shall terminate 30 days after the date of such notice (or at such earlier date as may be mutually agreeable), except for its obligations to hold and deliver the Escrow Funds to the successor Escrow Agent; and the Escrow Agent shall then deliver the balance of the Escrow Funds then in its possession to such a successor Escrow Agent as shall be appointed by the Purchaser and the Stockholder as evidenced by a written notice filed with the Escrow Agent. If the Purchaser and the Stockholder are unable to agree upon a successor Escrow Agent by the effective date of such resignation or removal, the then acting Escrow Agent may petition any court of competent 4
jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Escrow Agent or other appropriate relief; and any such resulting appointment shall be binding upon all of the parties hereto. Upon acknowledgment by any successor Escrow Agent of the receipt of the then remaining balance of the Escrow Funds, the then acting Escrow Agent shall be fully released and relieved of all duties, responsibilities and obligations under this Escrow Agreement. (e) The Escrow Agent shall be under no duty to institute or defend any arbitration or legal proceeding with respect to the Escrow Funds or under this Escrow Agreement and none of the costs or expenses of any such proceeding shall be borne by the Escrow Agent. The costs and expenses of any such proceeding shall be borne as decided by the arbitrators or court and shall be paid out of the Escrow Funds or by the Purchaser, as the case may be. ARTICLE 6 SECURITY INTEREST The Stockholder hereby grants to the Purchaser a first priority security interest in all of the Stockholder's and each of its Subsidiaries' rights, title to and interest in the Escrow Funds held under this Escrow Agreement for the purpose of securing, or partially securing, each and all of its obligations to the Purchaser pursuant to Section 2.4 and Article VIII of the Acquisition Agreement regardless of whether such obligations are required by the Acquisition Agreement to be satisfied under this Escrow Agreement. The Stockholder agrees to execute and deliver any such further instruments as the Purchaser or the Escrow Agent may request from time to time evidencing such security interest. The security interest granted pursuant to this Article 6 shall automatically terminate, with no further action necessary on the part of the Purchaser, with respect to the portions of the Escrow Funds distributed pursuant to this Escrow Agreement. The Purchaser agrees to execute and deliver any such further instruments as the Stockholder or the Escrow Agent may request from time to time evidencing termination such security interest in accordance with the preceding sentence. ARTICLE 7 NOTICES All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given or made and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made if delivered in person by courier service, by telecopy, by telegram, by telex or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested) to the respective parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Article 7): if to Escrow Agent: JPMorgan Chase Bank 600 Travis, Suite 1150 Houston, Texas 77002 Attn: Ruth Chipongian Telephone: (713) 216-6337 Telecopy: (713) 216-6927 5
if to the Stockholder: Peregrine Systems, Inc. 3611 Valley Centre Drive, Floor 5 San Diego, California 92130 Telecopy: (858) 481-1751 Attention: General Counsel if to the Purchaser: BMC Software, Inc. 2101 City West Boulevard Houston, Texas 77042-2031 Telecopy: (713) 918-8000 Attention: General Counsel Notice by telecopy will be deemed delivered on the first Business Day after the date the sender receives telecopier confirmation that such notice was received at the telecopier number of the addressee. Notice given by mail as set forth above will be deemed received three Business Days after the same is postmarked. ARTICLE 8 BINDING EFFECT; OTHER INTERESTS This Escrow Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, as permitted by Article 15 of this Escrow Agreement. Nothing herein is intended or shall be construed to give any other person (including, without limitation, any creditors of the Escrow Agent, the Purchaser, or the Stockholder or any of their respective affiliates) any right, remedy or claim under, in or with respect to this Escrow Agreement or the Escrow Funds held hereunder. ARTICLE 9 GOVERNING LAW This Escrow Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State without regard to any conflict or choice of law principles that would apply the substantive law of some other jurisdiction. All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Escrow Agreement shall be heard and determined in a Delaware state or federal court sitting in the City of Wilmington, and the parties hereto hereby irrevocable submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such action or proceeding and irrevocably waive and agree not to assert any defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such action or proceeding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon filing the Bankruptcy Case and for so long as the Bankruptcy Case is pending, the Bankruptcy Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all disputes arising under or in connection with this Escrow Agreement, and each party hereto hereby irrevocably submits and consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court for such purposes. 6
ARTICLE 10 COMPENSATION; EXPENSES The Escrow Agent shall charge the Escrow Funds for its services hereunder in accordance with the Escrow Agent's fee schedule attached as Exhibit A hereto as in effect from time to time and for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Escrow Agent in connection with the performance of its duties hereunder. If the Escrow Funds are insufficient to discharge all of the Escrow Agent's fees and expenses, the Purchaser shall be liable to the Escrow Agent for the payment of any such fees and expenses in excess of the available Escrow Funds. ARTICLE 11 TERM This Escrow Agreement shall terminate on the Business Day immediately following the date upon which all of the Escrow Funds shall have been distributed pursuant to Article 3 or Article 4. Articles 10 and 19 hereto shall survive the termination. ARTICLE 12 AMENDMENT AND MODIFICATION The Purchaser, the Stockholder and the Escrow Agent may amend, modify and/or supplement this Escrow Agreement as they may mutually agree in writing. ARTICLE 13 COUNTERPARTS This Escrow Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. All signatures of the parties to this Escrow Agreement may be transmitted by facsimile, and such facsimile will, for all purposes, be deemed to be the original signature of such party whose signature it reproduces, and will be binding upon such party. ARTICLE 14 HEADINGS The headings contained in this Escrow Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Escrow Agreement. Section references are, unless the context otherwise requires, references to sections of this Escrow Agreement. ARTICLE 15 ASSIGNABILITY Neither this Escrow Agreement nor any interest herein or in the Escrow Funds may be assigned or transferred, voluntarily or by operation of Law, by the Stockholder or the Escrow Agent. 7
ARTICLE 16 TAX Stockholder and Purchaser shall provide Escrow Agent with its taxpayer identification number documented by an appropriate Form W-8 or Form W-9 upon execution of this Escrow Agreement. Failure so to provide such forms may prevent or delay disbursements from the Escrow Funds and may also result in the assessment of a penalty and Escrow Agent's being required to withhold tax on any interest or other income earned on the Escrow Funds. Any payments of income shall be subject to applicable withholding regulations then in force in the United States or any other jurisdiction, as applicable. The Stockholder shall be deemed to be the owner of the Escrow Funds for federal, state and local income tax purposes unless and until such funds are paid to the Purchaser. ARTICLE 17 SEVERABILITY If any term or other provision of this Escrow Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule of Law or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Escrow Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Escrow Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner to the end that transactions contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the extent possible. ARTICLE 18 ENTIRE AGREEMENT This Escrow Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties hereto, and supercedes all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, among the parties or between any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. ARTICLE 19 INDEMNIFICATION Purchaser and Stockholder hereby jointly and severally agree to indemnify and defend the Escrow Agent, its officers, directors, partners, employees and agents (each herein called an "Indemnified Party") against, and hold each Indemnified Party harmless from, any and all losses, liabilities and expenses, including, but not limited to, fees and expenses of in house or outside counsel, court costs, costs, damages and claims, costs of investigation, litigation and arbitration, tax liability (other than for income taxes on fees earned hereunder) and loss on investments suffered or incurred by any Indemnified Party in connection with or arising from or out of (i) the execution, delivery or performance of this Escrow Agreement or (ii) the compliance or attempted compliance by any Indemnified Party with any instruction or direction upon which the Escrow Agent is authorized to rely under this Escrow Agreement, except to the extent that any such loss, liability or expense may result from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such Indemnified Party. IT 8
IS THE EXPRESS INTENT OF EACH OF PURCHASER AND STOCKHOLDER TO INDEMNIFY EACH OF THE INDEMNIFIED PARTIES FOR, AND HOLD THEM HARMLESS AGAINST, THEIR OWN NEGLIGENT ACTS OR OMISSIONS (BUT NOT THEIR GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT). ARTICLE 20 FUNDS TRANSFER In the event funds transfer instructions are given (other than in writing at the time of execution of the Escrow Agreement), whether in writing, by telefax, or otherwise, the Escrow Agent is authorized to seek confirmation of such instructions by telephone call-back to the person or persons designated on Exhibit B hereto, and the Escrow Agent may rely upon the confirmations of anyone purporting to be the person or persons so designated. If the Escrow Agent is unable to contact any of the authorized representatives identified in Exhibit B, the Escrow Agent is hereby authorized to seek confirmation of such instructions by telephone call-back to any one or more of the executive officers of the Stockholder or the Purchaser ("Executive Officers"), which shall include the titles of Vice President, as the Escrow Agent may select. Such "Executive Officer" shall deliver to the Escrow Agent a fully executed Incumbency Certificate, and the Escrow Agent may rely upon the confirmation of anyone purporting to be any such officer. The persons and telephone numbers for call-backs may be changed only in writing actually received and acknowledged by the Escrow Agent. The parties to this Escrow Agreement acknowledge that such security procedure is commercially reasonable. It is understood that the Escrow Agent and the beneficiary's bank in any funds transfer may rely solely upon any account numbers or similar identifying number provided by either of the other parties hereto to identify (i) the beneficiary, (ii) the beneficiary's bank, or (iii) an intermediary bank. The Escrow Agent may apply any of the Escrow Funds for any payment order it executes using any such identifying number, even where its use may result in a person other than the beneficiary being paid, or the transfer of funds to a bank other than the beneficiary's bank or an intermediary bank so designated. ARTICLE 21 SCOPE OF UNDERTAKING The Escrow Agent's duties and responsibilities in connection with this Escrow Agreement shall be purely ministerial and shall be limited to those expressly set forth in this Escrow Agreement. The Escrow Agent is not a principal, participant or beneficiary in any transaction underlying this Escrow Agreement and shall have no duty to inquire beyond the terms and provisions hereof. The Escrow Agent shall have no responsibility or obligation of any kind in connection with this Escrow Agreement or the Escrow Funds and shall not be required to deliver the Escrow Funds or any part thereof or take any action with respect to any matters that might arise in connection therewith, other than to receive, hold, invest, reinvest and deliver the Escrow Funds as herein provided. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is hereby expressly agreed and stipulated by the parties hereto that the Escrow Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion hereunder and shall have no investment or management responsibility and, accordingly, shall have no duty to, or liability for its failure to, provide investment recommendations or investment advice to the Purchaser, the Stockholder or either of them. The 9
Escrow Agent shall not be liable for any error in judgment, any act or omission, any mistake of law or fact, or for anything it may do or refrain from doing in connection herewith, except for, subject to Article 19 above, its own willful misconduct or gross negligence. It is the intention of the parties hereto that the Escrow Agent shall never be required to use, advance or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or the exercise of any of its rights and powers hereunder. ARTICLE 22 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL EACH PARTY HEREBY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS ESCROW AGREEMENT OR THE ACTION OF THE ESCROW AGENT, STOCKHOLDER OR PURCHASER IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS ESCROW AGREEMENT. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (I) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER; (II) SUCH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THE FOREGOING WAIVER; (III) SUCH PARTY MAKES THE FOREGOING WAIVER VOLUNTARILY AND (IV) SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVER AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS ARTICLE 22. ARTICLE 23 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION The parties hereto agree that they have been represented by counsel during the negotiation and execution of this Escrow Agreement and, therefore, waive the application of any law regulation, holding or rule of construction providing that ambiguities in an agreement or other document will be construed against the party drafting such agreement or document. 10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Escrow Agreement as of the day and year first above written. BMC SOFTWARE, INC. By: /s/ Robert H. Whilden, Jr. --------------------------------------- Name: Robert H. Whilden, Jr. Title: Senior Vice President and General Counsel PEREGRINE SYSTEMS, INC. By: /s/ Gary Greenfield --------------------------------------- Name: Gary Greenfield Title: Chief Executive Officer JPMORGAN CHASE BANK By: /s/ Greg Cambell --------------------------------------- Name: Greg Cambell Title: Vice President and Trust Officer


