FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20051221180246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
      
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On December 19, 2005, BMC Software, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an amended executive employment agreement (the "Agreement") with Stephen B. Solcher in connection with his appointment as the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The Agreement, as amended, is substantially similar to existing agreements with the Company's CEO and other senior executive officers and provides for an annual base salary for Mr. Solcher of $400,000. In addition, he is entitled to a target annual cash bonus equal to 100% of his annual base salary. The actual amount of any such cash bonus is based on performance. Mr. Solcher also has the opportunity to earn additional fiscal 2006 bonuses totaling $150,000 if he achieves certain objectives set by the Company's CEO and Board of Directors. The Agreement provides that in the case of a termination of employment by the Company without cause, as defined in the Agreement, or by Mr. Solcher for good reason, as defined in the Agreement, Mr. Solcher would be entitled to a payment equal to to years of his then current base salary and a payment equal to two times his then current cash bonus target amount. The Agreement also provides that in the event of a termination of employment without cause or for good reason within 12 months of a change of control of the Company, Mr. Solcher would be entitled to a payment equal to two years of his then current base salary and a payment equal to two times his then current cash bonus target amount, would vest fully in outstanding options and restricted shares and would continue to receive medical and life insurance benefits at no cost for eighteen months. In consideration of the benefits bestowed under the Agreement, it restricts competitive activities for two years after termination, prohibits disclosure of Company confidential information and prohibits solicitation of Company employees.
ITEM 5.02. Departure of directors or principal officers; election of directors; appointment of principal officers.
     On December 21, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Stephen B. Solcher as its Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective December 19, 2005. Since August 29, 2005, Mr. Solcher has served as the Company's interim Chief Financial Officer.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 21, 2005
 

 
     This Employment Agreement (this "Agreement") is made as of August 29, 2005 (the "Effective Date"), by and between BMC Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Employer"), and Stephen B. Solcher (the "Executive"). The Employer and the Executive are each a "party" and are together "parties" to this Agreement.
     WHEREAS, the Employer desires to employ the Executive, and the Executive wishes to accept such employment, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the employment compensation to be paid to the Executive and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
1. DEFINITIONS
     For the purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified or referred to in this Section 1.
     refers to this Employment Agreement, including all Exhibits attached hereto, as amended from time to time.
"Agreement"
     as defined in Section 3.1(b).
"Benefits"
     refers to the board of directors of the Employer.
"Board of Directors"
     refers to (i) the acquisition of at least 50% of Employer's outstanding voting stock; (ii) an unapproved change in the majority of the Employer's board of directors; (iii) a merger, consolidation, or similar corporate transaction in which the Company's shareholders immediately prior to the transaction do not own more than 60% of the voting stock of the surviving corporation in the transaction; and (iv) shareholder approval of the company's liquidation, dissolution, or sale or substantially all of its assets.
"Change of Control"
     means any and all:
"Confidential Information"
 
     as defined in Section 6.2.
"Disability"
     is the date stated in the first paragraph of the Agreement.
"Effective Date"
     shall mean any idea, invention, technique, modification, process, or improvement (whether patentable or not), any industrial design (whether registerable or not), any mask work, however fixed or encoded, that is suitable to be fixed, embedded or programmed in a semiconductor product (whether recordable or not), and any work of authorship (whether or not copyright protection may be obtained for it) created, conceived, or developed by the Executive, either solely or in conjunction with others, during the Employment Period, or a period that includes a portion of the Employment Period, that relates in any way to, or is useful in any manner in, the business then being conducted or proposed to be conducted by the Employer, and any such item created by the Executive, either solely or in conjunction with others, following termination of the Executive's employment with the Employer, that is based upon or uses Confidential Information.
"Employee Invention"
     is the term of the Executive's employment under this Agreement.
"Employment Period"
     shall mean the Employer's fiscal year, which shall end on March 31 of each year, or as changed from time to time.
"Fiscal Year"
     as defined in Section 6.3.
"for cause"
     as defined in Section 6.3.
"Good Reason"
     is any individual, corporation (including any non-profit corporation), general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization, or governmental body.
"person"
     as defined in Section 7.2(a)(iv).
"Proprietary Items"
     as defined in Section 3.1(a).
"Salary"
 
     shall mean the whole or any part of any scientific or technical information, design, process, procedure, formula, or improvement that has value and that the owner has taken measures to prevent from becoming available to persons other than those selected by the owner to have access for limited purposes.
"trade secrets"
2. EMPLOYMENT TERMS AND DUTIES
     2.1 EMPLOYMENT
     The Employer hereby employs the Executive, and the Executive hereby accepts employment by the Employer, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
     2.2 EMPLOYMENT PERIOD
     Subject to the provisions of Section 6, the term of the Executive's employment under this Agreement will commence upon the Effective Date and shall continue in effect through the third anniversary of the Effective Date (the "Employment Period"); provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of Section 6, commencing on the day after the Effective Date and on each day thereafter, the Employment Period shall be automatically extended for one additional day unless the Employer shall give written notice to Executive that the Employment Period shall cease to be so extended, in which event the Employment Period shall terminate on the third anniversary of the date such notice is given. The Employment Period may be further extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
     2.3 DUTIES
     The Executive will have such duties as are assigned or delegated to the Executive by the Board of Directors, and will initially serve as the Employer's Vice President Finance and its interim Chief Financial Officer. The Executive will devote his entire business time, attention, skill, and energy exclusively to the business of the Employer, will use his best efforts to promote the success of the Employer's business, and will cooperate fully with the Board of Directors in the advancement of the best interests of the Employer. The Executive's employment will be subject to the policies maintained and established by the Employer, from time to time. Nothing in this Section 2.3, however, will prevent the Executive from engaging in additional activities in connection with passive personal investments and community affairs that are not inconsistent with the Executive's duties under this Agreement. Additionally, nothing in this Section 2.3 will prevent the Executive from serving on the Board of Directors of other companies or organizations, or engaging in other activities, so long as such participation does not conflict with the interests or business of Employer or require such involvement as to interfere with the performance of the Executive's duties hereunder and has been expressly approved by the Chief Executive Officer of Employer. If the Executive is elected as a director of the Employer or as a director or officer of any of its affiliates, the Executive will fulfill his duties as such director or officer without additional compensation. The Executive acknowledges and agrees that he owes a fiduciary duty of loyalty, fidelity and allegiance to act at all times in the best interests of the Employer.
 
3. COMPENSATION
     3.1 COMPENSATION
4. FACILITIES AND EXPENSES
     4.1 FACILITIES.
     The Employer will furnish the Executive office space, equipment, supplies, and such other facilities and personnel as the Employer deems necessary or appropriate for the performance of the Executive's duties under this Agreement.
 
     4.2 EXPENSES.
     The Employer will pay on behalf of the Executive (or reimburse the Executive for) reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive at the request of, or on behalf of, the Employer in the performance of the Executive's duties pursuant to this Agreement, and in accordance with the Employer's employment policies, including reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in attending business meetings, in appropriate business entertainment activities, and for promotional expenses. The Executive must file expense reports with respect to such expenses in accordance with the Employer's policies then in effect.
5. VACATIONS AND HOLIDAYS
     The Executive will be entitled to paid vacation during the term of the Agreement in accordance with the vacation policies of the Employer in effect for its employees from time to time. The Executive will also be entitled to the paid holidays and other paid leave set forth in the Employer's policies.
6. TERMINATION
     6.1 EVENTS OF TERMINATION
     The Employment Period, the Executive's Salary and any and all other rights of the Executive under this Agreement or otherwise as an employee of the Employer will terminate (except as otherwise provided in this Section 6):
 
     Upon termination of the Employment Period, as provided above or otherwise, Executive's rights respecting Benefits, Stock Options, and Cash Bonus will be determined under the applicable plan or program providing the same.
6.2 DEFINITION OF DISABILITY
     For purposes hereof, the term "Disability" shall mean an incapacity by accident, illness or other circumstance which renders the Executive mentally or physically incapable of performing the duties and services required of the Executive hereunder on a full-time basis for a period of at least 180 consecutive days.
6.3 DEFINITION OF "FOR CAUSE" AND "GOOD REASON"
 
 
     6.4 SEVERANCE
     Should the Executive's employment with the Employer be terminated during the Employment Period pursuant to Section 6.1(e) or Section 6.1(f) above, the Executive shall be entitled to:
     Such payments under this section will be made no later than 30 days following the termination from employment. Severance payments do not constitute continued employment beyond the termination date.
     6.5 CHANGE OF CONTROL
     If, within 12 months of a Change of Control, the Executive's position is eliminated or the Executive is terminated pursuant to Section 6.1(e) or 6.1(f) above, regardless of whether such termination event occurs during or after the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to the following in lieu of the amounts set forth in Section 6.4:
 
     Severance payments do not constitute continued employment beyond the termination date.
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if the Executive is a "disqualified individual" (as defined in Section 280G(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code")), and the severance benefits provided for in this Section 6.5, together with any other payments and benefits which the Executive has the right to receive from the Employer and its affiliates, would constitute a "parachute payment" (as defined in Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code), then the severance benefits provided hereunder (beginning with any benefit to be paid in cash hereunder) shall be either (1) reduced (but not below zero) so that the present value of such total amounts and benefits received by the Executive will be one dollar ($1.00) less than three times the Executive's "base amount" (as defined in Section 280G of the Code) and so that no portion of such amounts and benefits received by the Executive shall be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or (2) paid in full, whichever produces the better net after-tax position to the Executive (taking into account any applicable excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code and any other applicable taxes). The determination as to whether any such reduction in the amount of the severance benefit is necessary shall be made initially by the Employer in good faith. If a reduced severance benefit is paid hereunder in accordance with clause (1) of the first sentence of this paragraph and through error or otherwise that payment, when aggregated with other payments and benefits from the Employer (or its affiliates) used in determining if a "parachute payment" exists, exceeds one dollar ($1.00) less than three times the Executive's base amount, then the Executive shall immediately repay such excess to the Employer upon notification that an overpayment has been made.
     6.6 NO MITIGATION
     Any remuneration received by the Executive from a third party following the Employment Period shall not apply to reduce the Employer's obligations to make payments hereunder.
     6.7 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES
     Due to the difficulties in estimating damages for an early termination of the Employment Period, the Employer and the Executive agree that the payments, if any, to be received by the Executive hereunder shall be received as liquidated damages.
7. NONDISCLOSURE COVENANT; EMPLOYEE INVENTIONS
     7.1 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS BY THE EXECUTIVE
     The Executive acknowledges that (a) prior to and during the Employment Period and as a part of his employment, the Executive has been and will be afforded access to Confidential Information; (b) public disclosure of such Confidential Information could have an adverse effect on the Employer and its business; (c) because the Executive possesses substantial technical
 
expertise and skill with respect to the Employer's business, the Employer desires to obtain exclusive ownership of each Employee Invention, and the Employer will be at a substantial competitive disadvantage if it fails to acquire exclusive ownership of each Employee Invention; and (d) the provisions of this Section 7 are reasonable and necessary to prevent the improper use or disclosure of Confidential Information and to provide the Employer with exclusive ownership of all Employee Inventions.
     7.2 AGREEMENTS OF THE EXECUTIVE
     In consideration of the compensation and benefits to be paid or provided to the Executive by the Employer under this Agreement, the Executive covenants the following:
 
 
     7.3 DISPUTES OR CONTROVERSIES
     The Executive recognizes that should a dispute or controversy arising from or relating to this Agreement be submitted for adjudication to any court, arbitration panel, or other third party, the preservation of the secrecy of Confidential Information may be jeopardized. All pleadings, documents, testimony, and records relating to any such adjudication will be maintained in secrecy and will be available for inspection by the Employer, the Executive, and their respective attorneys and experts, who will agree, in advance and in writing, to receive and maintain all such information in secrecy, except as may be limited by them in writing.
 
8. NONCOMPETITION AND NONINTERFERENCE
     8.1 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS BY THE EXECUTIVE
     The Executive acknowledges that: (a) the services to be performed by him under this Agreement are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary, and intellectual character; (b) the Employer's business is international in scope and its products are marketed throughout the United States and the world; (c) the Employer competes with other businesses that are or could be located in any part of the United States or the world; (d) the provisions of this Section 8 are reasonable and necessary to protect the Employer's business; and (e) in connection with the fulfillment of his duties hereunder and as an employee of the Employer, the Employer will provide Executive with Confidential Information necessitating the execution of the covenants contained in this Section 8.
     8.2 COVENANTS OF THE EXECUTIVE
     In consideration of the acknowledgments by the Executive, and in consideration of the compensation and benefits to be paid or provided to the Executive by the Employer, the Executive covenants that during and for eighteen months following the Employment Period he will not, directly or indirectly:
 
     If any covenant in this Section 8.2 is held to be unreasonable, arbitrary, or against public policy, such covenant will be considered to be divisible with respect to scope, time, and geographic area, and such lesser scope, time, or geographic area, or all of them, as a court of competent jurisdiction may determine to be reasonable, not arbitrary, and not against public policy, will be effective, binding, and enforceable against the Executive.
     The period of time applicable to any covenant in this Section 8.2 will be extended by the duration of any violation by the Executive of such covenant.
9. GENERAL PROVISIONS
     9.1 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND ADDITIONAL REMEDY
     The Executive acknowledges that the injury that would be suffered by the Employer as a result of a breach of the provisions of this Agreement (including any provision of Sections 7 and 8) would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to the Employer for such a breach would be an inadequate remedy. Consequently, the Employer will have the right, in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision of this Agreement, and the Employer will not be obligated to post bond or other security in seeking such relief.
     9.2 COVENANTS OF SECTIONS 7 AND 8 ARE ESSENTIAL AND INDEPENDENT COVENANTS
     The covenants by the Executive in Sections 7 and 8 are essential elements of this Agreement, and without the Executive's agreement to comply with such covenants, the Employer would not have entered into this Agreement or employed the Executive. The Employer and the Executive have independently consulted with their respective counsel and have been advised in all respects concerning the reasonableness and propriety of such covenants, with specific regard to the nature of the business conducted by the Employer.
     If the Executive's employment hereunder expires or is terminated, this Agreement will continue in full force and effect as is necessary or appropriate to enforce the covenants and agreements of the Executive in Sections 7 and 8.
 
     9.3 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES BY THE EXECUTIVE
     The Executive represents and warrants to the Employer that the execution and delivery by the Executive of this Agreement do not, and the performance by the Executive of the Executive's obligations hereunder will not, with or without the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both: (a) violate any judgment, writ, injunction, or order of any court, arbitrator, or governmental agency applicable to the Executive; or (b) conflict with, result in the breach of any provisions of or the termination of, or constitute a default under, any agreement to which the Executive is a party or by which the Executive is or may be bound. The Executive further specifically represents and warrants that he is not subject to, nor will he violate, any agreement not to compete upon the execution and delivery by him of this Agreement.
     The Executive represents and warrants that he will not utilize or divulge any proprietary materials or information from his previous employers and acknowledges that Employer has prohibited Executive from bringing any such materials on to Employer's premises and has advised Executive that Executive's failure to adhere to these prohibitions will subject Executive to immediate termination.
     9.4 OBLIGATIONS CONTINGENT ON PERFORMANCE
     The obligations of the Employer hereunder, including its obligation to pay the compensation provided for herein, are contingent upon the Executive's performance of the Executive's obligations hereunder.
     9.5 WAIVER
     The rights and remedies of the parties to this Agreement are cumulative and not alternative. Neither the failure nor any delay by either party in exercising any right, power, or privilege under this Agreement will operate as a waiver of such right, power, or privilege, and no single or partial exercise of any such right, power, or privilege will preclude any other or further exercise of such right, power, or privilege or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, (a) no claim or right arising out of this Agreement can be discharged by one party, in whole or in part, by a waiver or renunciation of the claim or right unless in writing signed by the other party; (b) no waiver that may be given by a party will be applicable except in the specific instance for which it is given; and (c) no notice to or demand on one party will be deemed to be a waiver of any obligation of such party or of the right of the party giving such notice or demand to take further action without notice or demand as provided in this Agreement.
 
     9.6 BINDING EFFECT; DELEGATION OF DUTIES PROHIBITED
     This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, and legal representatives, including any entity with which the Employer may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred. The duties and covenants of the Executive under this Agreement, being personal, may not be delegated or assigned.
     9.7 NOTICES
     All notices, consents, waivers, and other communications under this Agreement must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given when (a) delivered by hand (with written confirmation of receipt), (b) sent by facsimile (with written confirmation of receipt), provided that a copy is mailed by registered mail, return receipt requested and signed for by the party required to receive notice, or (c) when received by the addressee, if sent by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service (receipt requested), in each case to the appropriate addresses and facsimile numbers set forth below (or to such other addresses and facsimile numbers as a party may designate by notice to the other parties):
If to Employer:
BMC Software, Inc. 2101 CityWest Blvd Houston, Texas 77042 Telephone No.: (713) 918-8800 Facsimile No.:713-918-1110 Attn: General Counsel
If to the Executive:
Stephen B. Solcher 2217 Maconda Houston, TX 77027 Telephone No: 713-918-4329 E-mail Address: steve_solcher@bmc.com
     9.8 ENTIRE AGREEMENT; AMENDMENTS
     Except as provided in (a) plans and programs of the Employer referred to in Sections 3.1(b) through (d), and (b) any signed written agreement contemporaneously or hereafter executed by the Employer and the Executive, this Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement shall not be construed to supersede any stock option agreements or restricted stock agreements entered into between Executive and Employer at any time prior to the execution of this Agreement. This Agreement may not be amended orally, but only by an agreement in writing signed by the parties hereto.
 
     
9.9 GOVERNING LAW
     
This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Texas without regard to conflicts of laws principles.
     9.10 ARBITRATION
     In the event that there shall be any dispute arising out of or in any way relating to this Agreement, the contemplated transactions, any document referred to or incorporated herein by reference or centrally related to the subject matter hereof, or the subject matter of any of the same, the parties covenant and agree as follows:
 
     9.11 SECTION HEADINGS, CONSTRUCTION
     The headings of Sections in this Agreement are provided for convenience only and will not affect its construction or interpretation. All references to "Section" or "Sections" refer to the corresponding Section or Sections of this Agreement unless otherwise specified. All words used in this Agreement will be construed to be of such gender or number as the circumstances require. Unless otherwise expressly provided, the word "including" does not limit the preceding words or terms.
     9.12 SEVERABILITY
     If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, the other provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect. Any provision of this Agreement held invalid or unenforceable only in part or degree will remain in full force and effect to the extent not held invalid or unenforceable.
     9.13 COUNTERPARTS
     This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original copy of this Agreement and all of which, when taken together, will be deemed to constitute one and the same agreement.
     9.14 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
     THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY WAIVE A JURY TRIAL IN ANY LITIGATION WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT.
 
     9.15 WITHHOLDING OF TAXES AND OTHER EMPLOYEE DEDUCTIONS
The Employer may withhold from any payments and benefits made pursuant to this Agreement all federal, state, city, and other taxes as may be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling and all other normal deductions made with respect to the Employer's employees generally.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the date above first written above.
 
     The Executive will, during the Employment Period, be permitted to participate in the BMC Global Incentive Compensation Plan ("GICP") that may be in effect from time to time. During the employment period, the Executive will be eligible to receive a target incentive, which is 100% of base salary. The actual amount received is not guaranteed and is dependent on the performance of the Company and the Executive in accordance with the GICP established for each fiscal year during the employment period.
     Each fiscal year, the Executive will receive a detailed description of the GICP and the targeted measures and objectives for that year.
 
     This Amendment No. 1 to Executive Employment Agreement (this "Amendment") is made as of December 19, 2005 (the "Amendment Date"), by and between BMC Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Employer"), and Stephen B. Solcher (the "Executive"). The Employer and the Executive are each a "party" and are together "parties" to this Amendment.
     WHEREAS, the parties have previously entered into an Executive Employment Agreement dated as of August 29, 2005 (the "Agreement"), and the parties wish to amend the Agreement as set forth herein.
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the additional compensation set forth below and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows, effective as of the Amendment Date:
"(i) a significant change in the Executive's titles or offices from those previously applicable to the Executive (but an alteration in Executive's reporting responsibilities);"
not
"In consideration of the acknowledgments by the Executive, and in consideration of the compensation and benefits to be paid or provided to the Executive by the
 
Employer, the Executive covenants that during and for twenty-four months following the Employment Period he will not, directly or indirectly:"
   "Effective January 1, 2006, the Executive will, during the Employment Period, be permitted to participate in the BMC Annual Executive Incentive Plan that may be in effect from time to time. During the employment period, the Executive will be eligible to receive a target incentive, which is 100% of base salary. The actual amount received is not guaranteed and is dependent on the performance of the Company and the Executive in accordance with the Annual Incentive Plan established for each fiscal year during the employment period.
Each fiscal year, the Executive will receive a detailed description of the Annual Executive Incentive Plan and the targeted measures and objectives for that year."
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Amendment as of the date first written above.

 
Exhibit 99.1
     BMC Software, Inc. , a leading provider of enterprise management solutions, today announced the appointment of Stephen (Steve) B. Solcher to the position of senior vice president and chief financial officer, effective immediately. In this role, Mr. Solcher will be responsible for Finance and Accounting, Treasury, Investor Relations, Information Technology, Procurement, Internal Audit and other related functions.
Houston  (Dec. 21, 2005) 
[NYSE: BMC]
     Mr. Solcher has been serving as BMC's interim chief financial officer since August 29, 2005, while continuing in his role as vice president of finance and treasurer. He will continue to report directly to Bob Beauchamp, president and CEO of BMC Software.
     "Steve's track record of accomplishments clearly made him the best choice for this position. His significant financial and operations experience have helped contribute to our success," said Bob Beauchamp. "Steve's experience and deep knowledge of our company will be invaluable as we further advance our Business Service Management (BSM) strategy and deliver on our key corporate goals."
     "This is an exciting time for BMC as we see our customers and investors realizing the benefits of our BSM strategy," said Stephen Solcher. "I am pleased to have the opportunity to help further our leadership in the BSM marketplace and deliver on our financial objectives."
     Mr. Solcher had served as BMC Software's vice president of finance and treasurer since 2000, and as the company's treasurer from 1992 to 2000. In addition to his duties as treasurer, he has been responsible for accounting, tax, investor relations, mergers and acquisitions, and other key corporate initiatives for BMC Software. Mr. Solcher has a public accounting background and is a Certified Public Accountant. He received a Bachelor of Administration degree from Texas A&M University.
     
About BMC Software
     BMC Software, Inc. [NYSE:BMC], is a leading provider of enterprise management solutions that empower companies to manage their IT infrastructure from a business perspective. Delivering Business Service Management, BMC Software solutions span enterprise systems, applications, databases and service management. Founded in 1980, BMC Software has offices worldwide and fiscal 2005 revenues of more than $1.46 billion. For more information about BMC Software, visit .
www.bmc.com
BMC Software, the BMC Software logos, and all other BMC Software product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of BMC Software, Inc. All other trademarks or registered trademarks belong to their respective companies. 2005, BMC Software, Inc. All rights reserved.


