FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20051102172604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 2, 2005, BMC Software, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release, dated as of November 2, 2005, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
          99     News Release, dated November 2, 2005, of BMC Software, Inc.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 2, 2005
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
       BMC Software, Inc. [NYSE: BMC] today announced financial results for its second quarter of fiscal 2006 ended September 30, 2005.
HOUSTON
(Nov. 2, 2005)
     BMC Software's non-GAAP net earnings, which exclude special items, assuming an effective tax rate of 28%, were $58.2 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, representing a 63% increase over the year-ago quarter. In the year-ago quarter, non-GAAP net income was $35.2 million, or $0.16 per diluted share. Fiscal 2006 second quarter net earnings on a GAAP basis were $42.3 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, representing a 217% increase over the year-ago quarter. In the year-ago quarter, net earnings on a GAAP basis were $12.7 million, or $0.06 per diluted share. Included in the financial tables is a complete reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP results.
     Total revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 increased two percent to $361.0 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses declined by $22.3 million, or 7%, to $299.6 million. Non-GAAP operating income increased by $28.2 million, or 85%, to $61.4 million, and non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter nearly doubled from the prior year to 17%. The company continues to maintain a strong balance sheet, ending the second quarter of fiscal 2006 with $1.2 billion of cash and marketable securities and $1.6 billion in deferred revenues.
     During the second fiscal quarter the company continued its accelerated stock buy-back program, spending $100 million to re-purchase approximately five million outstanding shares. In addition, BMC Software's board of directors has recently authorized the re-purchase of up to $1 billion worth of the company's shares. This is in addition to the $34 million buy-back remaining under the previous authorization.
     "We are very pleased with the improvement in profitability this quarter; however, we have more work to do in driving revenue growth," said Bob Beauchamp, president and CEO, BMC Software. "In particular, we are focused on improving license bookings. Our April 2005 sales force realignment to support Business Service Management (BSM) is gaining traction, and we are increasing our momentum and pipeline. Converting this momentum and pipeline into strong financial results is our key focus for the remainder of the fiscal year."
 
     License bookings in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 were $107.3 million, an increase of 8% sequentially and a decline of 27% from the year-ago quarter. The following table illustrates license bookings:
 
     
FY06 and Q3 Guidance
     The company announced today that it is raising its guidance for earnings for the year and expects fiscal 2006 non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $0.97 to $1.03 on estimated revenues of $1.49 to $1.52 billion. Please note that BMC Software's fiscal 2006 estimates do not include an estimated $0.57 of expenses per share of special items.
     The company also said that it now expects cash flow from operations for the 2006 fiscal year to range between $375 and $425 million. This updated guidance includes payments of $37 million in taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act and cash restructuring payments of $43 million. Second quarter cash used from operations was $8 million. This reflects cash outflows during the second fiscal quarter of $27 million for
 
the taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings and $10 million for restructuring. Excluding these two items, second quarter adjusted cash flow from operations was $29 million.
     The company estimates that third quarter revenues will be in the $375 to $395 million range and non-GAAP earnings per share, which exclude special items, will be in the $0.25 to $0.30 range. During the third fiscal quarter, the company expects to see an increase in license bookings for its Service Management and Identity Management units as compared to the year-ago quarter.
     
Conference Call
     A conference call to discuss second quarter fiscal 2006 results is scheduled for today, November 2, 2005 at 4:00 p.m. Central time. Those interested in participating may call (719) 457-2617 and use the passcode BMC. To access a replay of the conference call, which will be available for one week, dial (719) 457-0820 and use the passcode BMC. A live webcast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at . A replay of the webcast will be available within 24 hours and archived on the website.
www.bmc.com/investors
     
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measures of net earnings, diluted earnings per share, operating expenses, operating income and operating margin excluding charges for (i) restructuring costs and (ii) amortization of acquired technology and intangibles. Restructuring costs are excluded, as management believes these to be non-recurring costs which would distort comparisons with historical results if not excluded. The other items are excluded, as they are noncash charges related to completed acquisitions. The non-GAAP financial measures of net earnings and diluted earnings per share are also adjusted to reflect an effective tax rate of 28%, which differs from the GAAP rate. We have applied a standard 28% tax rate to normalize our results against historical reported results. A reconciliation between the GAAP results and the non-GAAP results excluding these items is included with the financial tables accompanying this press release.
     BMC Software's management uses both GAAP and non-GAAP results in its evaluation of the performance of the company; although, the non-GAAP results are used for budgeting and for determining executive compensation on a quarterly basis. While GAAP results are more comprehensive, the company provides investors supplemental non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP information to provide additional insight into BMC Software's financial results. Because non-GAAP gauges are not influenced by certain non-cash or non-recurring expenses, they can add value by focusing on the ongoing performance of the company's core operations and by giving investors additional options for tracking historical and expected results.
     
About BMC Software
     BMC Software, Inc. [NYSE:BMC] is a leading provider of enterprise management solutions that empower companies to manage their IT infrastructure from a business perspective. Delivering Business Service Management, BMC Software solutions span enterprise systems, applications, databases and service management. Founded in 1980, BMC Software has offices worldwide and fiscal 2005 revenues of more than $1.46 billion. For more information about BMC Software, visit
www.bmc.com.
 
     This news release contains both historical information and forward-looking information. Statements of plans, objectives, strategies and expectations for future operations and results, identified by words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate" and "guidance" are forward-looking statements. Numerous important factors affect BMC Software's operating results and could cause BMC Software's actual results to differ materially from the forecasts and estimates indicated by this press release or by any other forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, BMC Software, and there can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations, estimates or projections. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: 1) BMC Software's revenues and earnings are subject to a number of factors, including the significant percentage of quarterly sales typically closed at the end of each quarter, that make estimation of operating results prior to the end of a quarter extremely uncertain; 2) BMC Software's operating costs and expenses are relatively fixed over the short term; 3) increased competition and pricing pressures could adversely affect BMC Software's earnings; 4) BMC Software's maintenance revenue could decline if maintenance renewal rates decline or if license revenues do not grow; 5) new software products and product strategies may not be timely introduced or successfully adopted; 6) BMC Software's quarterly cash flow from operations is and has been volatile and is dependent upon a number of factors described in BMC Software's filings with the SEC; 7) BMC Software's effective tax rate is subject to quarterly fluctuation and any change in such tax rate could affect the company's earnings; and 8) the additional risks and important factors described in BMC Software's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 and other filings with the SEC. BMC Software undertakes no obligation to update information contained in this release.
     ###
     BMC Software, the BMC Software logos, and all other BMC Software product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of BMC Software, Inc.  2005, BMC Software, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
BMC Software Announces Second Quarter Financial Results Page 5
 
BMC Software Announces Second Quarter Financial Results Page 6
See the accompanying Supplemental Analysis of Effect of Special Items, where these Non-GAAP Statements of Operations Excluding Special Items are reconciled to the Statements of Operations prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
BMC Software Announces Second Quarter Financial Results Page 7
 
BMC Software Announces Second Quarter Financial Results Page 8
 
BMC Software Announces Second Quarter Financial Results Page 9
(a) Total cash and marketable securities are $1,219.6 at September 30, 2005
 
BMC Software Announces Second Quarter Financial Results Page 10
 
BMC Software Announces Second Quarter Financial Results Page 11
 
 
BMC Software Announces Second Quarter Financial Results Page 12
 


