FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20060614171217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On June 14, 2006, BMC Software, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing updated financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release, dated as of June 14, 2006, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
     99 News Release, dated June 14, 2006, of BMC Software, Inc.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 14, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Investor Relations Contact:
Derrick Vializ + 1 713 918 1805
derrick_vializ@bmc.com
BMC Software 2101 CityWest Blvd. Houston, Texas 77042 United States of America
www.bmc.com
 BMC Softwaretoday announced that, following the issuance of its fourth quarter fiscal 2006 results and in conjunction with the preparation of its consolidated financial statements for its 2006 fiscal year, the Company performed additional analysis of its consolidated tax provisions and associated balance sheet accounts.
HOUSTON, June 14, 2006
This analysis resulted in a $14.8 million increase in the Company's provision for income taxes in its fiscal 2006 fourth quarter and certain reclassifications between current and long-term assets.
The increased tax provision does not affect BMC Software's fourth quarter revenues, GAAP or non-GAAP operating expenses, GAAP or non-GAAP operating income, or cash flow from operations.
The increase in taxes is reflected in the financial statements included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, which was filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available at The Company also is posting updated financial tables and slides to its website.
www.bmc.com/investors.
The table below shows the effect of the adjustment:
 
In its Form 10-K, the Company identified a material weakness in its internal controls related to the preparation, analysis and recording of its income tax provision, and outlines the steps it is taking to remediate this material weakness in order to enhance and strengthen its accounting for income taxes. The Company also disclosed that as of its fiscal 2006 year end, three previously disclosed material weaknesses no longer exist as material weaknesses.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP results excluding special items and GAAP results is presented in this press release.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and the accompanying tables include the following non-GAAP financial measures: (a) non-GAAP net earnings and (b) non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share. Each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.
Each of these non-GAAP financial measures excludes restructuring charges, amortization of acquired technology and intangibles, charges related to acquired research and development and non-recurring litigation settlement costs. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share exclude income tax expense associated with the one-time repatriation of certain foreign earnings. Each of the adjustments is described in more detail below. This press release also contains a reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results because they exclude amounts that BMC management and the Board of Directors do not consider part of operating results when assessing the performance of the organization and measuring the results of the Company's performance. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with past reports of financial results. BMC Management and the Board of Directors use these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance and for forecasting purposes, as well as the allocation of future capital investments, and are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.
While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, there are limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. Items such as restructuring charges and amortization of acquired technology and intangibles that are excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on net earnings. As a result, these non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net earnings, cash flow from operations or other measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reviewing the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures that are included elsewhere in this press release.
The following is a discussion of the adjustments to the comparable GAAP financial
 
measure that produces our non-GAAP financial measures:
 
About BMC Software
BMC Software [NYSE:BMC] is a leading global provider of enterprise management
 
solutions that empower companies to manage their IT infrastructure from a business perspective. Delivering Business Service Management, BMC solutions span enterprise systems, applications, databases and service management. Founded in 1980, BMC posted fiscal 2006 revenues of more than $1.49 billion. For more information, visit
.
www.bmc.com
BMC Software, the BMC Software logos, and all other BMC Software product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of BMC Software, Inc. All other trademarks or registered trademarks belong to their respective companies.  2006, BMC Software, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 


