FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20060808162859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 204.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 8, 2006, BMC Software, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the press release, dated as of August 8, 2006, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
     99          News Release, dated August 8, 2006, of BMC Software, Inc.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 8, 2006
 

 
BMC Software Announces Fiscal 2007 First Quarter Results
          BMC Software today announced that fiscal 2007 first quarter net earnings on a GAAP basis were $31 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, compared to a loss of $41 million, or a loss of $0.19 per diluted share in the year-ago period.
HOUSTON, August 8, 2006
"BMC Software is off to a solid start for fiscal 2007," said Bob Beauchamp, the Company's president and chief executive officer. "We continue to see positive results in terms of revenue growth, improved operating margin and exceptional growth in earnings per share. Our Business Service Management strategy continues to gain traction in the marketplace, and we continue to expand our recognized lead in this space."
In addition, the Company posted the following key results for the first quarter of fiscal 2007:
 
In addition, the Company continued its accelerated stock buy-back program, spending $150 million to re-purchase approximately 7 million outstanding shares during the quarter. The Company has approximately $659 million remaining under its current $1 billion share repurchase program, which was approved in the third quarter of fiscal 2006.
The Company also said it continues to see evidence that Business Service Management is going main-stream with customers. Recently, Goldman Sachs polled 100 top IT executives with strategic decision-making authority. The July 2006 study asked, Which software vendors are gaining or losing share as part of your IT spending?' BMC Software, for the first time in the survey's five-year history, was in the share gainer's column. None of the Company's larger competitors made the share gainer's list.
"During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we achieved the highest operating margin in any quarter in the past six years," said Steve Solcher, the Company's chief financial officer. "This positions us well to achieve our goal of a 20 percent operating margin for the year, as we continue to grow revenues and increase operating efficiencies. We are also increasing shareholder value through our aggressive share repurchase program, while maintaining a strong balance sheet."
With the Company's improved profitability in the first quarter, it is raising its non-GAAP EPS guidance for the year. BMC now expects non-GAAP earnings per share will range between $1.28 and $1.38 for fiscal 2007, using an estimated tax rate of 28 percent. Non-GAAP EPS excludes an estimated $0.44 of special items including expenses for amortization of acquired technology and intangibles, stock-based compensation and restructuring.
Fiscal 2007 Guidance
The Company continues to expect revenue growth in the low to mid single digits, and a non-GAAP operating margin of 20 percent for the fiscal year. Fiscal 2007 cash flow from operations is expected to be between $400 million and $450 million, which includes negative impacts from an estimated $45 million related to the timing of servicing receipts as well as an estimated $30 million in restructuring payments.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2007, BMC expects revenues to be in the range of $365 million to $380 million and non-GAAP EPS to be in the $0.27 to $0.32 range, using an estimated tax rate of 28 percent. Non-GAAP EPS excludes an estimated $0.11 of special items including expenses for amortization of acquired technology and intangibles, stock-based compensation and restructuring.
 
A conference call to discuss first quarter fiscal 2007 results is scheduled for today, August 8, 2006 at 4:00 pm Central Time. Those interested in participating may call (719) 457-2625 and use the pass code BMC. To access a replay of the conference call, that will be available for one week, dial (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112 and use the pass code BMC. A live web cast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at www.bmc.com/investors. A replay of the web cast will be available within 24 hours and archived on the website.
Conference Call
This press release and the accompanying tables include the following non-GAAP financial measures: (a) non-GAAP operating expenses, (b) non-GAAP operating income, (c) non-GAAP net earnings and (d) non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share. Each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Each of these non-GAAP financial measures excludes restructuring charges, amortization of acquired technology and intangibles, and, for fiscal 2007, stock-based compensation expenses. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share for fiscal 2006 exclude income tax expense associated with the one-time repatriation of certain foreign earnings. Each of the adjustments is described in more detail below. This press release also contains a reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results because they exclude amounts that BMC management and the Board of Directors do not consider part of operating results when assessing the performance of the organization and measuring the results of the Company's performance. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with past reports of financial results. BMC Management and the Board of Directors use these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance and for forecasting purposes, as well as the allocation of future capital investments, and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.
 
While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, there are limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. Items such as restructuring charges, amortization of acquired technology and intangibles and stock-based compensation expenses that are excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on net earnings. As a result, these non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net earnings, cash flow from operations or other measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reviewing the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures that are included elsewhere in this press release.
The following is a discussion of the adjustments to the comparable GAAP financial measure that produces our non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
This news release contains both historical information and forward-looking information. Statements of plans, objectives, strategies and expectations for future operations and results, identified by words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate" and "guidance" are forward-looking statements. Numerous important factors affect BMC Software's operating results and could cause BMC Software's actual results to differ materially from the forecasts and estimates indicated by this press release or by any other forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, BMC Software, and there can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations, estimates or projections. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: 1) BMC Software's revenues and earnings are subject to a number of factors, including the significant percentage of quarterly sales typically closed at the end of each quarter, that make estimation of operating results prior to the end of a quarter extremely uncertain; 2) BMC Software's operating costs and expenses are relatively fixed over the short term; 3) increased competition and pricing pressures could adversely affect BMC Software's earnings; 4) BMC Software's maintenance revenue could decline if maintenance renewal rates decline or if license revenues do not grow; 5) new software products and product strategies may not be timely introduced or successfully adopted; 6) BMC Software's quarterly cash flow from operations is and has been volatile and is dependent upon a number of factors described in BMC Software's filings with the SEC; 7) BMC Software's effective tax rate is subject to quarterly fluctuation and any change in such tax rate could affect the company's earnings; and 8) the additional risks and important factors described in BMC Software's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This filing is available on the company's website at www.bmc.com/investors. BMC Software undertakes no obligation to update information contained in this release.
     
About BMC Software
     BMC Software [NYSE:BMC] is a leading global provider of enterprise management solutions that empower companies to manage their IT infrastructure from a business perspective. Delivering Business Service Management, BMC solutions span enterprise systems, applications, databases and service management. Founded in 1980, BMC posted fiscal 2006 revenues of approximately $1.5 billion. For more information, visit www.bmc.com.
 
BMC Software, the BMC Software logos, and all other BMC Software product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of BMC Software, Inc. 2006, BMC Software, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


