FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20070208163055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 8, 2007, BMC Software, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release, dated as of February 8, 2007, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
99     News Release, dated February 8, 2007, of BMC Software, Inc.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 8, 2007
BMC SOFTWARE, INC.
By:        Christopher C. Chaffin        Sr. Legal Counsel & Assistant Secretary
/s/ CHRISTOPHER C. CHAFFIN                    
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
BMC Software Announces Fiscal 2007 Third Quarter Results
BMC Software today announced that fiscal 2007 third quarter net earnings on a GAAP basis were $64 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, compared to $49 million, or $0.22 per diluted share in the third quarter of fiscal 2006.
HOUSTON, February 8, 2007
Non-GAAP net earnings, which exclude special items, were $85 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, compared to $63 million, or $0.29 per diluted share in the year-ago period. A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is included in the accompanying financial tables.
"BMC Software delivered an outstanding fiscal 2007 third quarter," said Bob Beauchamp, the Company's president and chief executive officer. "Our Business Service Management strategy is driving robust growth in license bookings and revenues across a broad front. BSM essentially automates a customer's IT Service Management processes and workflows, enabling them to improve their IT efficiency and more closely align IT with their business goals and priorities. Customers find the business case for Business Service Management to be compelling, and the result is an increasing number of companies that are transitioning to BSM and to BMC. As we move into the last quarter of our 2007 fiscal year, we remain focused on creating value by executing our strategy to capture the momentum around BSM, optimize the performance of our business units, and further streamline our processes and operations."
In addition, the Company posted the following key results for the third quarter of fiscal 2007:
 
In addition, the Company continued its stock buy-back program, spending $125 million to re-purchase 3.8 million outstanding shares during the quarter. The Company has $404 million remaining under its current $1 billion share repurchase program, which was approved in the third quarter of fiscal 2006.
"Our continued financial strength, coupled with steadily increasing customer adoption of BSM and our improved execution in our mainframe business, positions BMC well for continued growth," said Steve Solcher, the Company's chief financial officer. "We continue to focus on reducing our operational complexity, thus producing a faster, more agile and more efficient company."
With the Company's strong performance in the third quarter, it is raising its non-GAAP earnings per share guidance for the year. BMC now expects non-GAAP EPS will range between $1.45 and $1.49 for fiscal 2007, using an estimated tax rate of 30 percent. Non-GAAP EPS excludes an estimated $0.45 of special items including expenses for amortization of acquired technology and intangibles, stock based compensation and restructuring.
Fiscal 2007 Guidance
The Company reiterates its expectation for fiscal 2007 revenue growth in the mid-single digits. The Company also reiterates its expectation to exceed a non-GAAP operating margin of 20% for the year and anticipates that its non-GAAP operating margin will be 22% for the full year. The Company also reiterates its fiscal 2007 cash flow expectation of between $400 million and $450 million, which includes negative impacts from an estimated $45 million related to the timing of servicing receipts as well as an estimated $30 million in restructuring payments.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, BMC expects revenues to be in the range of $415 million to $435 million and non-GAAP EPS to be in the $0.36 to $0.40 range, using an estimated tax rate of 30 percent and providing that the number of weighted average shares outstanding remains flat sequentially. Non-GAAP EPS excludes an estimated $0.10 of special items including expenses for amortization of acquired technology and intangibles, stock based compensation and restructuring.
A conference call to discuss third quarter fiscal 2007 results is scheduled for today, February 8, 2007 at 4:00 pm Central Time. Those interested in participating may call (719) 457-2617 and use the pass code 262 or BMC on the telephone keypad. To access a replay of the conference call, that will be available for one week, dial (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112 and use the pass code 262 or BMC on the telephone keypad. A live web cast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at . A replay of the web cast will be available within 24 hours and archived on the website.
Conference Call
www.bmc.com/investors
 
This press release and the accompanying tables include the following non-GAAP financial measures: (a) non-GAAP operating expenses, (b) non-GAAP operating income, (c) non-GAAP operating margin, (d) non-GAAP net earnings and (e) non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share. Each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Each of these non-GAAP financial measures excludes restructuring charges, amortization of acquired technology and intangibles, and, for fiscal 2007, stock based compensation expenses. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share for fiscal 2006 exclude income tax expense associated with the one-time repatriation of certain foreign earnings. Each of the adjustments is described in more detail below. This press release also contains a reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results because they exclude amounts that BMC management and the Board of Directors do not consider part of operating results when assessing the performance of the organization and measuring the results of the Company's performance. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with past reports of financial results. BMC Management and the Board of Directors use these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance and for forecasting purposes, as well as the allocation of future capital investments, and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.
While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, there are limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. Items such as restructuring charges, amortization of acquired technology and intangibles and stock based compensation expenses that are excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on net earnings. As a result, these non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net earnings, cash flow from operations or other measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reviewing the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures that are included elsewhere in this press release.
 
The following discusses the reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures:
 
This news release contains both historical information and forward-looking information. Statements of plans, objectives, strategies and expectations for future operations and results, identified by words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate" and "guidance" are forward-looking statements. Numerous important factors affect BMC Software's operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from the forecasts and estimates indicated by this press release or by any other forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, BMC Software, and there can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations, estimates or projections. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: 1) the possibility that general economic conditions or uncertainty cause information technology spending to be reduced or purchasing decisions to be delayed; 2) competition in our markets can result in pricing pressures and competition for new customers as well as potential displacements of our existing customers; 3) the adoption rate for BSM may be slower than we expect and customers may not increase their purchases of our products if they do not adopt a BSM strategy; 4) a significant percentage of our license transactions is completed during the final weeks and days of each quarter, which creates a level of uncertainty as to whether revenues, license bookings and/or earnings will have met expectations until after the end of the quarter; 5) our operating costs and expenses are relatively fixed over the short term, so if we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, our ability to off-set revenue shortfalls in the near-term is limited; 6) our effective tax rate is subject to quarterly fluctuation and any change in such tax rate could affect our earnings; and 7) the additional risks and important factors described in BMC Software's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This filing is available on our website at . We undertake no obligation to update information contained in this release.
www.bmc.com/investors
About BMC Software
BMC Software is a leading global provider of enterprise management solutions that empower companies to manage their IT infrastructure from a business perspective. Delivering Business Service Management, BMC solutions span enterprise systems, applications, databases and service management. For the four fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2006, BMC revenue was approximately $1.57 billion. For more information, visit .
www.bmc.com
BMC Software, the BMC Software logos, and all other BMC Software product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of BMC Software, Inc. 2007, BMC Software, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


