FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20071106160737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 204.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 6, 2007, BMC Software, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2007.  A copy of the press release, dated as of November 6, 2007, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report.
ITEM 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)  The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
99           News Release, dated November 6, 2007, of BMC Software, Inc.
2
Pursuant to the requirements of  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3
 
Exhibit No.
99         News Release, dated November 6, 2007, of BMC Software, Inc.

Exhibit 99
BMC Software (NYSE: BMC) today announced that its fiscal 2008 second quarter net earnings on a GAAP basis were $78 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared to $58 million and $0.28 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
HOUSTON, November 6, 2007 --
 
The Companys non-GAAP net earnings for the fiscal second quarter, which exclude special items, were $96 million, or $0.48 per diluted share.  The Company had previously provided guidance on non-GAAP net earnings in the range of $0.39-$0.44 per diluted share.
The second quarter of fiscal 2008 marks the tenth consecutive quarter in which BMC has met or exceeded its guidance on revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share. Included in the financial tables is a complete reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP results.
This quarter offers more evidence that BMC Software has successfully transformed itself into an industry leader that is generating strong growth and excellent financial performance, said Bob Beauchamp, BMCs president and chief executive officer.  Our leadership in Business Service Management is driving strong top line performance as we win more and more deals against our key competitors. We expect to see the same impact from the recently announced BMC Service Automation, a key extension of BSM that offers customers more value than any other competitive offering on the market. We believe BMC has clear advantages in todays market, and we have raised our guidance in key areas for the balance of the year to reflect that confidence.
Steve Solcher, BMCs chief financial officer, said: Powered by continuing customer enthusiasm for our BSM offerings, BMC delivered another quarter of very good financial performance.  Weve executed strongly in virtually every metric, including bookings, revenues, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP earnings, and cash flow from operations.  Our expense control has been excellent, and we continue to improve business processes to further enhance and streamline our business operations.  Based on these results, it should be increasingly clear that we are well along in terms of building a company thats capable of generating consistent, sustainable increases in shareholder value.
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Company posted the following key results:
 
 
 
 
During the second fiscal quarter, BMC continued its stock repurchase activities, spending $200 million to repurchase 6.7 million outstanding shares.  As of September 30, 2007, the Company has slightly less than $1 billion remaining under the existing share repurchase authorization. BMC also continued to allocate capital to acquisitions, purchasing two companies -- RealOps in July 2007 and Emprisa Networks in October 2007  that enhance the Companys Business Service Management and Service Automation strategies.
 
Third Quarter and Fiscal 2008 Guidance
The Company now expects fiscal 2008 non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $1.78 to $1.86 per share, assuming an effective tax rate of 30 percent and excluding an estimated $0.38 of special items related to expenses for amortization of intangible assets, in-process research and development, share-based compensation and restructuring activity.
The Company now expects fiscal 2008 revenue growth of more than 6 percent.
The Company now expects fiscal 2008 cash flow from operations to be between $525 million and $575 million, an increase of $25 million.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company expects non-GAAP earnings per share in the range of $0.46 to $0.51 per share, assuming an effective tax rate of 30 percent and excluding an estimated $0.10 of special items related to expenses for amortization of intangible assets, in-process research and development, share-based compensation and restructuring activity.  The Company expects third quarter fiscal 2008 revenue to be in the $430 million to $445 million range.
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss second quarter fiscal 2008 results is scheduled for today, November 6, 2007 at 4:00 pm Central Time. Those interested in participating may call (913) 312-0851 and use the pass code BMC. To access a replay of the conference call, that will be available for one week, dial (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112 and use the pass code BMC.  A live web cast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at . A replay of the web cast will be available within 24 hours and archived on the website.
www.bmc.com/investors
 
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and the accompanying tables include the following non-GAAP financial measures: (a) non-GAAP operating expenses, (b) non-GAAP operating income, (c) non-GAAP operating margin, (d) non-GAAP net earnings and (e) non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share. Each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures excludes restructuring charges, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation expenses and, for fiscal 2008, charges related to in-process research and development.  Each of the adjustments is described in more detail below. This press release also contains a reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results because they exclude amounts that BMC management and the Board of Directors do not consider part of operating results when assessing the performance of the organization and measuring the results of the Companys performance. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with past reports of financial results. BMC Management and the Board of Directors use these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Companys performance and for forecasting purposes, as well as the allocation of future capital investments, and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.
While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, there are limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. Items such as restructuring charges, amortization of intangible assets, in-process research and development, and share-based compensation expenses that are excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on net earnings. As a result, these non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net earnings, cash flow from operations or other measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reviewing the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures that are included elsewhere in this press release.
 
 
 
 
The following discusses the reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures:
 Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude exit costs and related charges, primarily consisting of severance costs and lease abandonment costs, and any subsequent changes in estimates related to exit activities as they relate to our restructurings, which involved significant layoffs. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating the Companys and its management teams and business units performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude restructuring costs, because our operational managers are evaluated based on the operating expenses exclusive of restructuring charges and including the restructuring charges would hinder investors ability to evaluate the performance of our management in the manner in which the Companys management evaluates performance. Accordingly, management and the Board of Directors do not consider these costs for purposes of evaluating the performance of the business, and they exclude such costs when evaluating the performance of the Company, its business units and its management teams. Additionally, management uses the non-GAAP measures to assist in its determinations regarding the allocation of resources, such as capital investment, among the Companys business units and as part of its forecasting and budgeting.
Restructuring charges.
 . Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude costs associated with the amortization of intangible assets. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating the Companys and its management teams and business units performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude amortization of intangible assets, because these costs are fixed at the time of an acquisition, are then amortized over a period of several years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition. Accordingly, management and the Board of Directors do not consider these costs for purposes of evaluating the performance of the business during the applicable time period after the acquisition, and they exclude such costs when evaluating the performance of the Company, its business units and its management teams and when making decisions to allocate resources among the Companys business units.
Amortization of intangible assets
 
 
 
 
 Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the compensation expenses required to be recorded by FAS 123R for equity awards to employees and directors. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating the Companys and its management teams and business units performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, which excludes expenses related to share-based compensation, because these costs are generally fixed at the time an award is granted, are then expensed over several years and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management once granted. Accordingly, our operational managers are evaluated based on the operating expenses exclusive of share-based compensation expenses and including such charges would hamper investors ability to evaluate the performance of our management in the manner in which the Companys management evaluates performance. Additionally, we believe it is useful in measuring the Companys performance to exclude expenses related to FAS 123R equity expense because it enables comparability with prior period information. Accordingly, management and the Board of Directors do not consider these costs for purposes of evaluating the performance of the business, and they exclude such costs when evaluating the performance of the Company, its business units and its management teams and when making decisions to allocate resources among the Companys business units.
Share-based compensation expenses.
   Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude write-offs of in-process research and development.  This amount is the estimated fair value related to incomplete research and development projects from acquired companies which have no alternative future uses.  Such amounts are required to be expensed by us as of the date of the respective acquisition.  Because the costs are fixed at the time of acquisition and are not subject to management influence, management does not consider the costs in evaluating the performance of the Company and its business units nor when it allocates resources among the business units.  We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because it facilitates comparisons to our historical operating results without being affected by our acquisition history and the results of other companies in our industry, which have their own unique acquisition histories.
Write-offs of in-process research and development.
 
 
 
About BMC Software
BMC Software is a leading global provider of enterprise management solutions that empower companies to automate their IT and prove its business value. Delivering Business Service Management and Service Automation, BMC solutions span enterprise systems, applications, databases and service management. For the four fiscal quarters ended September 30, 2007, BMC revenue was approximately $1.64 billion. For more information, visit .
www.bmc.com
This news release contains both historical information and forward-looking information.  Statements of plans, objectives, strategies and expectations for future operations and results, identified by words such as believe, anticipate, expect, estimate and guidance are forward-looking statements. Numerous important factors affect BMC Software's operating results and could cause BMC Software's actual results to differ materially from the forecasts and estimates indicated by this press release or by any other forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, BMC Software, and there can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations, estimates or projections. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: 1) the possibility that general economic conditions or uncertainty cause information technology spending to be reduced or purchasing decisions to be delayed; 2) competition in our markets can result in pricing pressures and competition for new customers as well as potential displacements of our existing customers; 3) the adoption rate for BSM may be slower than we expect and customers may not increase their purchases of our products if they do not adopt a BSM strategy; 4) a significant percentage of our license transactions are completed during the final weeks and days of each quarter, which creates a level of uncertainty as to whether revenue, license bookings and/or earnings will have met expectations until after the end of the quarter; 5) our operating costs and expenses are relatively fixed over the short term, so if we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, our ability to off-set revenue shortfalls in the near-term is limited; 6) our effective tax rate is subject to quarterly fluctuation and any change in such tax rate could affect our earnings; and 7) the additional risks and important factors described in BMC Software's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This filing is available on our website at . We undertake no obligation to update information contained in this release.
www.bmc.com/investors
###
BMC, BMC Software, and the BMC Software logo are the exclusive properties of BMC Software Inc., are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and may be registered or pending registration in other countries. All other BMC trademarks, service marks, and logos may be registered or pending registration in the U.S. or in other countries. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.  2007 BMC Software Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


