FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20081205085119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
In light of current economic conditions, BMC Software, Inc. (the "Company") is reducing the Companys workforce by approximately 350 employees. The workforce reductions are from each business unit and corporate department and across geographies in which the Company operates. The Company committed to the reduction on November 20, 2008 when management finalized its decision to proceed. The Company notified employees of this upcoming restructuring action on December 5, 2008, and expects to be substantially complete with informing the affected employees in December 2008. The restructuring action is expected to result in pre-tax charges of approximately $18 to $23 million for severance and related termination costs, which will be future cash expenditures. The Company anticipates that most of these charges will be recorded in its third and fourth fiscal 2009 quarters. Management may conclude that additional future actions may be required if global economic conditions deteriorate furt her, but the timing and extent of such actions or related charges are not currently determinable. This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding the expected charges related to restructuring. These forward-looking statements are only estimates based on current information and expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the Companys ability to implement the workforce reductions in various geographies; possible changes in the size and components of the expected costs and charges; and general economic conditions. More information about potential factors that could affect the Companys business and financial results is included in the "Risk Factors" set forth in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These filings are available on the Companys website at www .bmc.com/investors. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of such risk factors, as well as other risks and uncertainties. BMC Software assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


