FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20090512160538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 12, 2009
BMC SOFTWARE, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
(713) 918-8800
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 12, 2009, BMC Software, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and year ended March 31, 2009.  A copy of the press release, dated as of May 12, 2009, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report.
ITEM 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)  The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
99        News Release, dated May 12, 2009, of BMC Software, Inc.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit No.
99        News Release, dated May 12, 2009, of BMC Software, Inc.

Exhibit 99
BMC Software Announces Fiscal 2009 Fourth Quarter Results
Record full year performance in revenue, total bookings, ESM license bookings, non-GAAP operating income, and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share
Total bookings and total revenue for the year grew 6 percent and 8 percent, respectively
ESM license bookings were up 26 percent for the year and ESM non-GAAP operating income more than doubled year-over-year
Non-GAAP operating margin for the year increased 5 percentage points to 33 percent
For the fourth quarter, bookings, revenue, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP EPS were in line with the Companys expectations
HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 12, 2009--BMC Software (NYSE: BMC) today announced its fiscal 2009 fourth quarter and full year results, which represented record levels of performance in annual revenue, total bookings, ESM license bookings, non-GAAP operating income, and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share.
Fiscal 2009 fourth quarter revenue was $479 million, an increase of 3 percent from the year-ago period. On a constant currency basis, revenue grew 7 percent in the fourth quarter over the year-ago period. Total revenue for fiscal 2009 grew 8 percent and 9 percent on a constant currency basis.
BMCs GAAP net earnings for the quarter were $83 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, versus $97 million and $0.50 per diluted share in the year-ago period. The Companys non-GAAP net earnings for the fiscal fourth quarter, excluding special items, were $120 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, representing a 2 percent decrease from the year-ago quarter.
BMCs GAAP net earnings for the year were $238 million, or $1.25 per diluted share, versus $314 million and $1.57 per diluted share in fiscal 2008. Non-GAAP earnings per share for fiscal 2009 were $2.26 per diluted share, an increase of 13 percent. Included in the financial tables is a complete reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP results.
"Despite the challenges in the macro-environment, fiscal 2009 was a year of great progress and achievement for BMC Software across virtually every area of our business, said Bob Beauchamp, BMCs chairman and chief executive officer. BMCs Business Service Management platform saw unprecedented customer adoption and validation during the fiscal year, a trend which continued to strengthen even as the macro-economic picture worsened. Today, it is clear that BMC has significantly extended our leadership position as the Business Service Management platform of choice for customers around the world.
The Company posted the following key results for the 2009 fourth quarter and full year:
For the full year the Company reported record total bookings of $1.88 billion, record total revenue of $1.87 billion, record non-GAAP operating income of $612 million, and record non-GAAP EPS of $2.26 per diluted share.
Total bookings for the fourth quarter decreased 3 percent to $536 million, but rose 8 percent adjusting for currency. Total bookings for fiscal 2009 grew 6 percent, and by 11 percent on a constant currency basis.
ESM license bookings for the fourth quarter increased 21 percent and 34 percent on a constant currency basis. For the full year, ESM license bookings were up 26 percent and 32 percent on a constant currency basis.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter rose 6 percentage points to 35 percent and for the full year non-GAAP operating margin increased 5 percentage points to 33 percent.
Cash flow from operations in the fourth quarter was $198 million and $580 million in the full year. While cash flow from operations was below the Companys expectations, this shortfall was largely due to the timing of bookings in the quarter, which came later than usual.
The Company continues to maintain a strong balance sheet, ending fiscal 2009 with approximately $1.2 billion in cash and investments.
Steve Solcher, BMCs chief financial officer, said: "During the fourth quarter, our bookings, revenue, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP EPS results were in line with our expectations. As a result, we delivered on our fiscal 2009 goal for each of these items. We continue to maintain our operating discipline, and Im pleased to note that we significantly improved our non-GAAP operating margin for the third year in a row."
During the fourth fiscal quarter, BMC continued its stock repurchase activities, spending $50 million to repurchase approximately 1.8 million shares. As of March 31, 2009, the Company has approximately $345 million remaining under its existing share repurchase program.
Fiscal 2010 Expectations
For fiscal 2010, the Company expects non-GAAP earnings per share in the range of $2.37 to $2.47 per share, which at the midpoint would represent a 7 percent increase. This range assumes an effective tax rate of 30 percent and excludes an estimated $0.60 to $0.64 cents of special items, including expenses related to the amortization of acquired technology and intangibles, stock-based compensation and restructuring activity.
Key assumptions underlying these full year fiscal 2010 estimates include:
Total bookings and revenue growth in the low single digits on a reported basis. The Company expects the constant currency growth rates to be 100 basis points higher for both bookings and revenue;
A license bookings ratable rate in the mid 50s versus 50 percent in fiscal 2009 as the Company expects to continue to have a higher volume of large transactions with complex terms and conditions;
While the Company factored into its outlook the new relationship with Cisco, it does not expect a material benefit from this relationship in the first year;
A continued improvement in non-GAAP operating margin;
Other income that reflects the current interest rate environment and reflects the full year impact from interest expense on our debt;
Share count similar to prior year
The Company also expects cash flow from operations to be between $600 million to $650 million. This assumes a $40 million increase in cash taxes paid during fiscal 2010 and a $60 million adverse impact from currency movements.
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss fourth quarter fiscal 2009 results is scheduled for today, May 12, 2009 at 4:00 pm Central Time. Those interested in participating may call (913) 312-0643 and use the pass code BMC. To access a replay of the conference call, that will be available for one week, dial (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112 and use the pass code BMC. A live web cast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at . A replay of the web cast will be available within 24 hours and archived on the website.
www.bmc.com/investors
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company has also disclosed in this press release and the accompanying tables the following non-GAAP information: (a) non-GAAP operating expenses, (b) non-GAAP operating income, (c) non-GAAP operating margin, (d) non-GAAP net earnings; and (e) non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share. Each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude the amortization of intangible assets, charges related to in-process research and development, share-based compensation expenses and restructuring charges, as well as the related tax impacts on these items. Each of the adjustments is described in more detail below. This press release also contains a reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results because they exclude amounts that BMC management and the Board of Directors do not consider part of operating results when assessing the performance of the organization and measuring the results of the Companys performance. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with past reports of financial results. BMC management and the Board of Directors use these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Companys performance and for forecasting purposes, as well as the allocation of future capital investments, and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.
While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, there are limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. Items such as the amortization of intangible assets, charges related to in-process research and development, share-based compensation expenses and restructuring charges that are excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on net earnings. As a result, these non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net earnings, cash flow from operations or other measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reviewing the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures that are included elsewhere in this press release.
The following discusses the reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures:
 . Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude costs associated with the amortization of intangible assets. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating the Companys and its management teams and business units performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude amortization of intangible assets, because these costs are fixed at the time of an acquisition, are then amortized over a period of several years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition. Accordingly, management and the Board of Directors do not consider these costs for purposes of evaluating the performance of the business during the applicable time period after the acquisition, and they exclude such costs when evaluating the performance of the Company, its business units and its management teams and when making decisions to allocate resources among the Companys business units.
Amortization of intangible assets
 Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude in-process research and development charges. These amounts represent the estimated fair value of core research and development projects that were incomplete as of the respective dates of acquisition and had neither reached technological feasibility nor been determined to have alternative future uses pending achievement of technological feasibility upon further development. Such amounts are required to be expensed by us as of the date of the respective acquisition. Because the costs are fixed at the time of acquisition and are not subject to management influence, management does not consider the costs in evaluating the performance of the Company and its business units nor when it allocates resources among the business units. We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because it facilitates comparisons to our historical operating results without being affected by our acquisition history and the results of other companies in our industry, which have their own unique acquisition histories.
In-process research and development charges.
 Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the compensation expenses required to be recorded by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-based Payment (SFAS 123(R)) for equity awards to employees and directors. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating the Companys and its management teams and business units performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude expenses related to share-based compensation, because these costs are generally fixed at the time an award is granted, are then expensed over several years and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management once granted. Accordingly, our operational managers are evaluated based on the operating expenses exclusive of share-based compensation expenses and including such charges would hamper investors ability to evaluate the performance of our management in the manner in which the Companys management evaluates performance. Additionally, we believe it is useful in measuring the Companys performance to exclude expenses related to FAS 123(R) equity expense because it enables comparability with prior period information. Accordingly, management and the Board of Directors do not consider these costs for purposes of evaluating the performance of the business, and they exclude such costs when evaluating the performance of the Company, its business units and its management teams and when making decisions to allocate resources among the Companys business units.
Share-based compensation expenses.
 Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude exit costs and related charges, primarily consisting of severance costs and lease abandonment costs, and any subsequent changes in estimates related to exit activities as they relate to our restructurings, which involved significant layoffs. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating the Companys and its management teams and business units performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude restructuring costs, because our operational managers are evaluated based on the operating expenses exclusive of restructuring charges and including the restructuring charges would hinder investors ability to evaluate the performance of our management in the manner in which the Companys management evaluates performance. Accordingly, management and the Board of Directors do not consider these costs for purposes of evaluating the performance of the business, and they exclude such costs when evaluating the performance of the Company, its business units and its management teams. Additionally, management uses the non-GAAP measures to assist in its determinations regarding the allocation of resources, such as capital investment, among the Companys business units and as part of its forecasting and budgeting.
Restructuring charges.
In this press release we refer to certain bookings information. Bookings represent the transactional value of new contracts executed by us and reflected in our financial statements, including amounts recorded to both revenue and deferred revenue. We also refer to growth rates for revenue and bookings at constant currency or adjusting for currency so that the business results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of the Companys business performance. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Business runs on IT.
IT runs on BMC Software.
Business thrives when IT runs smarter, faster, and stronger. Thats why the most demanding IT organizations in the world rely on BMC Software across both distributed and mainframe environments. Recognized as the leader in Business Service Management, BMC offers a comprehensive approach and unified platform that helps IT organizations cut cost, reduce risk, and drive business profit. For the four fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2009, BMC revenue was approximately $1.87 billion. Visit for more information
www.bmc.com
This news release and other related public statements we make contain both historical information and forward-looking information. Statements of plans, objectives, strategies and expectations for future operations and results, identified by words such as believe, anticipate, expect, estimate and guidance are forward-looking statements. Numerous important factors affect BMC Software's operating results and could cause BMC Software's actual results to differ materially from the forecasts and estimates indicated by this press release or by any other forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, BMC Software, and there can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations, estimates or projections. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: 1) the possibility that general economic conditions or uncertainty cause information technology spending to be reduced or purchasing decisions to be delayed; 2) competition in our markets can result in pricing pressures and competition for new customers as well as potential displacements of our existing customers; 3) the adoption rate for BSM may be slower than we expect and customers may not increase their purchases of our products if they do not adopt a BSM strategy; 4) a significant percentage of our license transactions are completed during the final weeks and days of each quarter, which creates a level of uncertainty as to whether revenue, license bookings and/or earnings will have met expectations until after the end of the quarter; 5) our operating costs and expenses are relatively fixed over the short term, so if we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, our ability to offset revenue shortfalls in the near-term is limited; 6) our expectations for revenue and earnings are based on an assumption of the percentage of license revenue which will be recognized upfront versus deferred; if our actual results do not match our assumption, our recognized revenue and resultant earnings could fall short of expectations; 7) our effective tax rate is subject to quarterly fluctuation and any change in such tax rate could affect our earnings; and 8) the additional risks and important factors described in BMC Software's Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These filings are available on our website at . We undertake no obligation to update information contained in this release.
www.bmc.com/investors
BMC, BMC Software, and the BMC Software logo are the exclusive properties of BMC Software Inc., are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and may be registered or pending registration in other countries. All other BMC trademarks, service marks, and logos may be registered or pending registration in the U.S. or in other countries. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.  2009 BMC Software, Inc.
CONTACT: BMC Software Global Communications: Mark Stouse, 832-715-0234 or Investor Relations: Derrick Vializ, 713-918-1805
mark_stouse@bmc.com
derrick_vializ@bmc.com


