FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20100505161036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  May 5, 2010
BMC SOFTWARE, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
(713) 918-8800
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 5, 2010, BMC Software, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and year ended March 31, 2010.  A copy of the press release, dated as of May 5, 2010, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report.
ITEM 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits.  The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
          99        News Release, dated May 5, 2010, of BMC Software, Inc.
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
4

Exhibit 99
BMC Software Announces Fiscal 2010 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results
Total bookings for the year grew 4 percent and for the quarter rose 9 percent
Cash flow from operations for fiscal 2010 was $635 million, up 10 percent, and for the quarter was $304 million, up 53 percent
Total revenue for the year increased 2 percent and for the quarter increased 3 percent
Non-GAAP diluted EPS for the year was $2.66, up 17 percent, and for the quarter was $0.65, up 2 percent
Company board of directors authorizes additional $1 billion for stock repurchases
Company issues fiscal 2011 guidance reflecting its expectations for strong growth in bookings, revenue, non-GAAP diluted EPS and cash flow from operations
HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 5, 2010--BMC Software (NASDAQ: BMC) today announced its fiscal 2010 fourth quarter and full year results.
Fiscal 2010 fourth quarter total revenue was $491 million, up 3 percent from the year-ago period. On a constant currency basis, total revenue for the quarter remained relatively flat with the year-ago period. License revenue was $201 million, an increase of 5 percent compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.
Total revenue for the full fiscal year was $1.91 billion, an increase of 2 percent on both a reported and constant currency basis. License revenue for the fiscal year rose 7 percent to $758 million.
GAAP net earnings for the fiscal fourth quarter were $119 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, versus $83 million and $0.44 per diluted share in the year-ago period. Non-GAAP net earnings for the quarter, after adjustments, were $121 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, representing a 2 percent increase in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share as compared to the year-ago quarter. Included in the financial tables is a complete reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP results.
GAAP net earnings for the full fiscal year were $406 million, or $2.17 per diluted share, versus $238 million and $1.25 per diluted share in fiscal 2009. Non-GAAP net earnings for the year, after adjustments, were $496 million, or $2.66 per diluted share, representing a 15 percent increase in non-GAAP net earnings and a 17 percent increase in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share over fiscal 2009.
Fourth quarter and full fiscal year GAAP net earnings were positively impacted by a net $30 million income tax benefit recorded by the Company in connection with the settlement of prior years tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service. This tax benefit was excluded from the Companys non-GAAP results.
Fiscal 2010 was another very solid year for BMC Software, while the fourth quarter could have been better, particularly for revenue and EPS, said Bob Beauchamp, BMCs chairman and chief executive officer. Fiscal 2011 began very strongly. Just minutes into the new fiscal year, BMC closed the largest ESM transaction in our history. This fast start, combined with continued acceleration in the fundamentals that drive BMCs business, gives us confidence entering fiscal 2011. We expect a year of strong growth in bookings, revenue, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, and cash flow from our operations.
The Company posted the following key results for fiscal 2010 and the fourth fiscal quarter:
Total bookings for fiscal 2010 were $1.95 billion, up 4 percent, and for the fourth quarter were $587 million, up 9 percent.
Total license bookings for the year grew 1 percent and increased by 8 percent for the quarter.
Non-GAAP operating margin for fiscal 2010 increased 2 percentage points to 35 percent and for the quarter was 33 percent, down 2 percentage points.
Cash flow from operations for fiscal 2010 was $635 million, up 10 percent, and for the quarter was $304 million, up 53 percent.
The Companys balance sheet remains strong, with $1.5 billion in cash and investments and $1.8 billion in deferred revenue.
During the fourth quarter, BMC continued its stock repurchase activities, spending $75 million to repurchase 2 million shares. Additionally, in April 2010, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion for stock repurchases.
Steve Solcher, BMCs chief financial officer, said: Even amidst a relatively challenging economic environment, we were able to grow our business during fiscal 2010. We strengthened our technology portfolio, expanded our sales force, and further improved our efficiency. We did all of this while substantially improving our earnings and cash flow from operations. The combination of these factors underscores the strength of our strategy, our ability to meet customer demand, and the financial discipline we bring across our business.
Fiscal 2011 Expectations
For full year fiscal 2011, the Company expects non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.84 to $2.94 per share, which at the midpoint would represent a 9 percent increase over last year. This range excludes an estimated $0.77 to $0.82 per share for non-GAAP adjustments, including expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and restructuring activity.
The assumptions underlying this full year fiscal 2011 estimate include:
Total bookings and revenue growth in the mid single digits;
Continued improvement in non-GAAP operating margin;
A slight increase in the license bookings ratable rate;
Slight bookings, revenue, and non-GAAP EPS negative impact due to currency assumed at today's rates;
Weighted shares outstanding similar to prior year; and
A non-GAAP tax rate of 27 percent.
The Company also expects full year fiscal 2011 cash flow from operations to be between $660 million and $710 million.
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss fiscal 2010 fourth quarter and full year results is scheduled for today, May 5, 2010 at 4:00 pm Central Time. Those interested in participating may call (913) 312-1467 and use the pass code BMC. To access a replay of the conference call, that will be available for one week, dial (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112 and use the pass code BMC. A live web cast of the conference call will be available on the Company's website at . A replay of the web cast will be available within 24 hours and archived on the website.
http://investors.bmc.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys results as determined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company has also disclosed in this press release and the accompanying tables the following non-GAAP information: (a) non-GAAP operating expenses, (b) non-GAAP operating income, (c) non-GAAP operating margin, (d) non-GAAP net earnings and (e) non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. Each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude share-based compensation expense; the amortization of intangible assets; severance, exit costs and related charges; charges related to in-process research and development; as well as the related tax impacts of these items; and the impact of certain discrete tax items. Each of the non-GAAP adjustments is described in more detail below. This press release also contains a reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results because they exclude amounts that BMC management and the Board of Directors do not consider part of operating results when assessing the performance of the organization and measuring the results of the Companys performance. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with past reports of financial results. BMC Management and the Board of Directors use these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Companys performance and for forecasting purposes, as well as the allocation of future capital investments, and they are key variables in determining management incentive compensation. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.
While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, there are limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. Items such as share-based compensation expense; the amortization of intangible assets; severance, exit costs and related charges; charges related to in-process research and development and certain discrete tax items that are excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on net earnings. As a result, these non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net earnings, cash flow from operations or other measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reviewing the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures that are included elsewhere in this press release.
The following discusses the reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures:
 Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the compensation expenses required to be recorded by GAAP for equity awards to employees and directors. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating the Companys and our management teams and business units performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude expenses related to share-based compensation, because these costs are generally fixed at the time an award is granted, are then expensed over several years and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management once granted. Accordingly, our operational managers are evaluated based on the operating expenses exclusive of share-based compensation expenses and including such charges would hamper investors ability to evaluate the performance of our management in the manner in which management evaluates performance. Accordingly, management and the Board of Directors do not consider these costs for purposes of evaluating the performance of the business, and they exclude such costs when evaluating the performance of the Company, the business units and management teams, including the determination of management incentive compensation, and when making decisions to allocate resources among business units.
Share-based compensation expense.
 . Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude costs associated with the amortization of intangible assets. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating the Companys and our management teams and business units performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude amortization of intangible assets, because these costs are fixed at the time of an acquisition, are then amortized over a period of several years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition. Accordingly, management and the Board of Directors do not consider these costs for purposes of evaluating the performance of the business during the applicable time period after the acquisition, and they exclude such costs when evaluating the performance of the Company, our business units and management teams, including the determination of management incentive compensation, and when making decisions to allocate resources among business units.
Amortization of intangible assets
 Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude severance, exit costs and related charges, primarily consisting of severance costs associated with position eliminations and lease abandonment costs, and any subsequent changes in estimates. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful, when evaluating corporate and business unit performance during a particular time period, to review financial measures excluding these restructuring costs because corporate management is also evaluated, and various corporate resource allocation decisions are made, based on operating expenses exclusive of such charges. We believe that the inclusion of such charges would hinder investors ability to evaluate the performance of our business in the manner in which management evaluates corporate performance, and thus such charges are excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.
Severance, exit costs and related charges.
 Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude in-process research and development charges recorded in prior year periods. These amounts represent the estimated fair value of core research and development projects that were incomplete as of the respective dates of acquisition and had neither reached technological feasibility nor been determined to have alternative future uses pending achievement of technological feasibility upon further development. Such amounts were required to be expensed by us as of the date of the respective acquisition under the accounting rules in place in prior years. Because the costs are fixed at the time of acquisition and are not subject to management influence, management does not consider the costs in evaluating the performance of the Company, our business units and management teams, including the determination of management incentive compensation, nor when it allocates resources among the business units. We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because it facilitates comparisons to our historical operating results without being affected by our acquisition history and the results of other companies in our industry, which have their own unique acquisition histories.
In-process research and development charges.
 Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude: (i) in fiscal 2010, a $30.0 million net tax benefit associated with an IRS settlement related to prior year tax matters, and (ii) in fiscal 2009, $6.8 million of tax expense associated with an intercompany transfer of IPR&D in connection with the acquisition of BladeLogic. Management excludes the impact of these items when evaluating the performance of the Company, our business units and management teams, including the determination of management incentive compensation, and when making decisions to allocate resources. Therefore, we exclude these items when presenting non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain discrete tax items.
In this press release we refer to certain bookings information. Bookings represent the transactional value of new contracts executed by us and reflected in our financial statements, including amounts recorded to both revenue and deferred revenue. We also refer to growth rates for revenue and bookings at constant currency or adjusting for currency so that the business results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of the Companys business performance. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Business runs on IT.
IT runs on BMC Software.
Business thrives when IT runs smarter, faster and stronger. Thats why the most demanding IT organizations in the world rely on BMC Software across both distributed and mainframe environments. Recognized as the leader in Business Service Management, BMC offers a comprehensive approach and unified platform that helps IT organizations cut cost, reduce risk and drive business profit. For the four fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2010, BMC revenue was approximately $1.91 billion. Visit for more information.
www.bmc.com
This news release and other related public statements we make contain both historical information and forward-looking information. Statements of plans, objectives, strategies and expectations for future operations and results, identified by words such as believe, anticipate, expect, estimate and guidance are forward-looking statements. Numerous important factors affect BMC Software's operating results and could cause BMC Software's actual results to differ materially from the forecasts and estimates indicated by this press release or by any other forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, BMC Software, and there can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations, estimates or projections. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: 1) the possibility that general economic conditions or uncertainty cause information technology spending to be reduced or purchasing decisions to be delayed; 2) competition in our markets can result in pricing pressures and competition for new customers as well as potential displacements of our existing customers; 3) our cash flow from operations could be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to, lengthening sales cycles, the size and timing of bookings, customer payment terms, the timing of collections, increased expenses, reduced net earnings and movement in foreign currency exchange rates; 4) a significant percentage of our license transactions are completed during the final weeks and days of each quarter, which creates a level of uncertainty as to whether revenue, license bookings and/or earnings will have met expectations until after the end of the quarter; 5) our operating costs and expenses are relatively fixed over the short term, so if we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, our ability to offset revenue shortfalls in the near-term is limited; 6) changes to our sales organization, including personnel and process changes, may have unintended negative consequences; 7) our expectations for revenue and earnings are based on an assumption of the percentage of license revenue which will be recognized upfront versus deferred; if our actual results do not match our assumption, our recognized revenue and resultant earnings could fall short of expectations; 8) our effective tax rate is subject to quarterly fluctuation and any change in such tax rate could affect our earnings; and 9) the additional risks and important factors described in BMC Software's Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These filings are available on our website at . We undertake no obligation to update information contained in this release.
www.bmc.com
BMC, BMC Software, and the BMC Software logo are the exclusive properties of BMC Software Inc., are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and may be registered or pending registration in other countries. All other BMC trademarks, service marks, and logos may be registered or pending registration in the U.S. or in other countries. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.  2010 BMC Software, Inc.
CONTACT: BMC Software Global Communications: Mark Stouse, 832-715-0234 or Investor Relations: Derrick Vializ, 713-918-1805
mark_stouse@bmc.com
derrick_vializ@bmc.com


