FILE:BMC/BMC-8K-20121116120429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 16, 2012, BMC Software, Inc. (the "Company") completed an underwritten public offering of $300 million in aggregate principal amount of its 4.50% Notes due 2022 (the "Notes"). The Notes were offered by the Company pursuant to its Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-177533), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 27, 2011 and supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement dated November 13, 2012 (the "Prospectus Supplement").
The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of February 13, 2012 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 16, 2012, between the Company and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture"). The Company may issue additional notes from time to time pursuant to the Indenture. The Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture governing the Notes contain covenants that limit the Company's ability to, among other things, incur certain liens securing indebtedness, engage in certain sale-leaseback transactions, and enter into certain consolidations, mergers, conveyances, transfers or leases of all or substantially all the Company's assets. The terms of the Notes also require the Company to make an offer to repurchase Notes upon a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the Supplemental Indenture) at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of the repurchase.
The foregoing descriptions of the Indenture (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's Current Report filed on Form 8-K filed on February 13, 2012) and of the Supplemental Indenture and the Notes, which are filed as exhibits hereto and incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01, do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such documents.
 
The information in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of the Notes, the Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated November 13, 2012, among the Company and Barclays Capital Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the underwriters named therein. A copy of the Underwriting Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The Company hereby files the following exhibits to, and incorporates such exhibits by reference in, the registration statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, filed with the Commission on October 27, 2011 (Registration No. 333-177533), and supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 16, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 13, 2012
BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
                               INCORPORATED
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
c/o BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York 10019
and
c/o MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
                                     INCORPORATED
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
BMC Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.50% Notes due 2022 (the ""). Barclays Capital Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
        Introductory.    
Company
Underwriters
Notes
Representatives
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, to be dated as of February 13, 2012 (the ""), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture, to be dated as of the Closing Date (the "") to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, dated May 30, 2008, on file with the Depositary (the "") .
Base Indenture
Trustee
Second Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Depositary
DTC Agreement
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-177533), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and
Commission
Base Prospectus
 
sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits (but excluding Form T-1 (as defined below)) and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." Any registration statement filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act is called the "Rule 462(b) Registration Statement" and from and after the date and time of filing of the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement the term "Registration Statement" shall include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement. The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "") by the parties hereto. The term "" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on November 13, 2012 (the "").
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Execution Time
Preliminary Prospectus
Initial Sale Time
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
 
S 1. Representations and Warranties of the Company
ECTION
The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, as follows:
a)    The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are
Compliance with Registration Requirements.    
 
contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "").
Trust Indenture Act
The Registration Statement, when it became effective, and as amended or supplemented, if applicable, at each deemed effective date with respect to the Underwriters pursuant to Rule 430B(f)(2) of the Securities Act (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto, if applicable, included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply (A) to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof or (B) to that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility (Form T-1) (the "") under the Trust Indenture Act, of the Trustee.
Form T-1
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the SEC, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (""), except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
EDGAR
b)    The term "" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated November 13, 2012, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an "") set forth on Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply (A) to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof or (B) to the Form T-1 of the Trustee.
Disclosure Package.    
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
c)    .    The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
Incorporated Documents
d)    .    (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), and (iii) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
e)    .    (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
f)    .    Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
g)    The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.    
 
h)    This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.    
i)    .    The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. The Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles. The Second Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Second Supplemental Indenture by the Trustee, when executed and delivered by the Company, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Indenture
j)    The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.    
k)        The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
l)    The statements in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Notes" and "Description of Debt Securities", insofar as such statements purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Notes, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.    
m)    .    Under current U.S. federal income tax law, although the discussion set forth in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences to Non U.S. Holders" does not purport to summarize all possible U.S. federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership, and disposition of the Notes, such discussion constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the U.S. federal income tax consequences that are material to holders who purchase the Notes pursuant to the Preliminary Prospectus and Prospectus.
Accuracy of Tax Statements in Prospectus
 
n)    .    Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, or any development that would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business, properties, results of operations or prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "").
No Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Change
o)    Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are an independent registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants.    
p)    The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of its operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States ("") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.    
GAAP
q)    Each of the Company and its significant subsidiaries (as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X, the "") has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and, in the case of the Company, to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. Each of the Company and each Significant Subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries.    
Significant Subsidiaries
r)    Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is (i) in violation of its charter or by-laws, (ii) in violation or default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) ("") under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.    
Default
 
Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "") or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, as applicable, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this sentence only, for such Defaults or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any Default under the charter or by-laws of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this sentence only, for such conflict, breach, Defaults, Debt Repayment Triggering Event, lien, charge, encumbrance, consent or violation as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package or by the Prospectus, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act, the Trust Indenture Act, applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (""). As used herein, a "" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company, the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Existing Instrument
FINRA
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
s)    Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened (i) against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) which has as the subject thereof any officer or director of, or property owned or leased by, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iii) relating to environmental or discrimination matters related to the Company or its subsidiaries, except in any case for any such action, suit or proceeding that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Material Actions or Proceedings.    
t)    Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no material disputes with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent material labor disturbance by its employees or any of its subsidiaries' employees.
Labor Matters.    
 
u)    Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company or its subsidiaries own or have the right to use adequate patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patentable inventions, trade secret, know-how and other intellectual property used by the Company or its subsidiaries in, and material to, the conduct of the Company's or its subsidiaries' business as now conducted or as proposed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus to be conducted (collectively, the ""), except where the failure to so own or have the right to use such Intellectual Property would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, (i) to the Company's knowledge, there is no infringement by third parties of any of the Company's Intellectual Property and (ii) there are no legal or governmental actions, suits, proceedings or claims pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened, against the Company (A) challenging the Company's rights in or to any Intellectual Property, (B) challenging the validity or adequacy of any Intellectual Property owned by the Company, or (C) alleging that the operation of the Company's business as now conducted infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of a third party. The Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any claim that would cause the representation in the preceding sentence to be untrue.
Intellectual Property Rights.    
Intellectual Property
v)    The Company and each Significant Subsidiary possess such valid and current certificates, permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except where the failure to have any such certificate, permit, license, approval, consent or other authorization would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
All Necessary Permits, etc.    
w)    Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, the Company and its subsidiaries have filed all necessary federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise tax returns in a timely manner and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, except where a default to make such filings or payments would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. The Company has made appropriate provisions under GAAP in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(o) above in respect of all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise taxes for all current or prior periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has not been finally determined.
Tax Law Compliance.    
x)    The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Company Not an "Investment Company".    
y)    The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.    
 
z)    None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has taken any action since January 1, 2002, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA, including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA. "" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.    
FCPA
aa)    The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.    
Money Laundering Laws
bb)    Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""), the United Nations Security Council, the European Union, Her Majesty's Treasury, or other relevant sanctions authority (collectively, ""), nor is the Company located, organized or resident in any country or territory that is the subject of Sanctions; and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any Sanctions.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.    
OFAC
Sanctions
cc)    Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances,
Compliance with Environmental Laws.    
 
petroleum or petroleum products (collectively, "") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, ""), (ii) the Company and its subsidiaries have all permits, authorizations and approvals required under any applicable Environmental Laws and are each in compliance with their requirements, (iii) there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigation or proceedings relating to any Environmental Laws against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (iv) there are no events or circumstances that would reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or governmental body or agency, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or Environmental Laws.
Hazardous Materials
Environmental Laws
dd)    .    There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company or any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any applicable provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the ""), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
ee)        Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.
Company's Accounting System.
ff)        Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls and Procedures.
gg)    .    Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or in any document incorporated by reference therein, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, (i) the Company is not aware of any material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) there has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
 
S 2. .
ECTION
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes
    a)    The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 98.582% of the principal amount of the Notes, payable on the Closing Date.
The Notes.    
    b)    Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on November 16, 2012, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date.    
Closing Date
    c)    The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.    
    d)    Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.    
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
    e)    The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.    
 
S 3. .
ECTION
Covenants of the Company
The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
    a)    The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.    
    b)        During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the ""), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
Prospectus Delivery Period
    c)    The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes of offering and selling the Notes. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.    
    d)    .    The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
    e)    The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance.    
    f)    The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.    
    g)    The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.    
    h)    During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.    
 
    i)    .    The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Underwriters and attached as Exhibit B hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the ""). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
Final Term Sheet
    j)    .    The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in this Section 3(j).
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
    k)    .    If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
    l)    .    The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
 
    m)    Prior to the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Company will comply in all material respects with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act.    
    n)    The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Manipulation of Price.    
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
S 4.    .    The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
ECTION
Payment of Expenses
 
S 5.    .    The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the Closing Date and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
ECTION
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
    a)    .    The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
    b)    On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letters.    
    c)    .    On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letters
    d)    For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.    
(i)  in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change; and
(ii)  there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any of Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, or their respective successors.
 
    e)    On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from (i) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, an opinion, tax opinion and negative assurances letter substantially in the forms which are attached hereto as Exhibit A-1, Exhibit A-2 and Exhibit A-3, respectively; and (ii) Patrick Tagtow, general counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, an opinion substantially in the form which is attached hereto as Exhibit A-4.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.    
    f)    On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, an opinion with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.    
    g)    On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chief Executive Officer or a Senior Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.    
(i)    the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, threatened by the Commission;
(ii)    the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
(iii)    the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct as of such Closing Date; and
(iv)    the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
    h)    On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents.    
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9, 14 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
S 6.    .    If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, 11(i)(A) or 11(iv), or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or
ECTION
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
 
such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
S 7.    .    This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
ECTION
Effectiveness of this Agreement
S 8.    .
ECTION
Indemnification
(a)    The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any legal and other expense as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Underwriters.    
provided, however
(b)    Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers.    
 
Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the third paragraph, the third sentence of the fourth paragraph, the fifth paragraph and the first sentence of the sixth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(c)    Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.    
 
(including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
(d)    The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.    
S 9.    .    If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the
ECTION
Contribution
 
Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
S 10.    .    If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of
ECTION
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
 
Notes, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9, 14 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
S 11.    .    Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) (A) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or (B) trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; (iv) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9, 14 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
ECTION
Termination of this Agreement
 
S 12.    .    The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
ECTION
No Fiduciary Duty
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof.
S 13.    .    The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
ECTION
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
S 14.    .    All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
ECTION
Notices
If to the Representatives:
Barclays Capital Inc.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Facsimilie: 646-834-8133
Attention: Syndicate Registration
 
and
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
50 Rockefeller Plaza
NY1-050-12-01
New York, NY 10020
Facsimile: 212-901-7881
Attention: High Grade Debt Capital Markets Transaction Management/Legal
with a copy to:
Shearman & Sterling LLP
599 Lexington Avenue
New York, New York 10022
Facsimile: 212-848-7179
Attention: Lisa Jacobs
If to the Company:
BMC Software, Inc.
2101 Citywest Boulevard, Suite 2015A
Houston, TX 77042
Facsimile: 713-918-1110
Attention: Patrick Tagtow
with a copy to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
1000 Louisiana
Suite 6800
Houston, TX 77002
Facsimile: 212-735-2000
Attention: Richard Aftanas
                 Christian Callens
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
S 15.    .    This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
ECTION
Successors
S 16.    .    The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any
ECTION
Partial Unenforceability
 
other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
S 17.    .    THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
ECTION
Governing Law Provisions
S 18.    .    This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
ECTION
General Provisions
Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
                               INCORPORATED
    Acting as Representatives of the
    several Underwriters named in
    the attached Schedule A.
 
By: Barclays Capital Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433
Registration No. 333-177533
 
 
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
Note:
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or emailing, as the case may be, Barclays Capital Inc. at 1-888-603-5847 or barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated at 1-800-294-1322 or dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com.
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
 
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433
Registration No. 333-177533
 
 
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
Note:
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or emailing, as the case may be, Barclays Capital Inc. at 1-888-603-5847 or barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated at 1-800-294-1322 or dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com.
www.sec.gov
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of November 16, 2012 by and between BMC Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
The Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture, dated as of February 13, 2012 (the "", and together with this Second Supplemental Indenture, the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of one or more Series of the Company's securities.
Base Indenture
Indenture
The Company desires and has requested the Trustee pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture to join with it in the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture in order to supplement the Base Indenture as, and to the extent set forth herein to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Notes (as defined below).
Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee, without the consent of any holders of the Company's Securities, may amend or supplement certain terms and conditions in the Base Indenture as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 2.2 thereof.
The execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company or a duly authorized committee thereof.
All conditions and requirements necessary to make this Second Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto and the execution and delivery thereof have been in all respects duly authorized by the parties hereto.
The Company and the Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders (as defined herein) of the 4.50% Notes due 2022 (the ""):
Notes
Section 1.1 .
Relationship with Base Indenture
The terms and provisions contained in the Base Indenture will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Second Supplemental Indenture and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of the Base Indenture conflicts with the express provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture will govern and be controlling.
The Trustee accepts the amendment of the Base Indenture effected by this Second Supplemental Indenture and agrees to execute the trust created by the Base Indenture as hereby amended, but only upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Second Supplemental
Indenture, including the terms and provisions defining and limiting the liabilities and responsibilities of the Trustee in the performance of the trust created by the Base Indenture, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee will not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or with respect to any of the recitals or statements contained herein, all of which recitals or statements are made solely by the Company, or for or with respect to (1) the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture or any of the terms or provisions hereof, (2) the proper authorization hereof by the Company, (3) the due execution hereof by the Company or (4) the consequences (direct or indirect and whether deliberate or inadvertent) of any amendment herein provided for, and the Trustee makes no representation with respect to any such matters.
Section 1.2 . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Base Indenture. The following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.2:
Definitions
"" means any Notes (other than the Initial Notes) issued under this Second Supplemental Indenture in accordance with Section 2.3 hereof, as part of the same Series as the Initial Notes.
Additional Notes
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
"" with regard to a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with respect to any Principal Property means, at the time of determination, the lesser of (1) the fair market value of the Principal Property subject to the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction or (2) the present value of the total net amount of rent required to be paid under such lease during the remaining term thereof (including any period for which such lease has been extended), discounted at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of such lease (or, if not practicable to determine such rate, the weighted average interest rate per annum borne by the securities then outstanding under the Base Indenture, which may include securities in addition to the Notes) compounded semi-annually.
Attributable Debt
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Second Supplemental Indenture, as it may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Base Indenture
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries;
(2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
 
(3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means (A) the arithmetic average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the arithmetic average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means, as of any date on which the Company effects a transaction requiring such Consolidated Net Tangible Assets to be measured hereunder, the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, the current portion of deferred revenue and obligations under capital leases; and (b) all intangible assets, to the extent included in said aggregate amount of assets, all as set forth on the Company's most recent consolidated balance sheet and computed in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
"" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto except that such Note will not bear the Global Note Legend.
Definitive Note
"" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the person specified in Section 2.1 hereof as the Depositary, with respect to the Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder.
Depositary
"" means accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect as of the date of determination.
GAAP
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.2(e), which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Global Note Legend
"" means, individually and collectively, each of the Global Notes, in the form of hereto issued in accordance with Section 2.1 hereof.
Global Notes
Exhibit A
means, with respect to any specified person, the obligations of such person under (1) interest rate swap agreements (whether from fixed to floating or from floating to fixed), interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements, (2) other agreements or arrangements designed to manage interest rates or interest rate risk; and (3) other agreements or arrangements designed to protect such person against fluctuations in currency exchange rates or commodity prices.
"Hedging Obligations"
"" means a person in whose name a Note is registered.
Holder
"" means the Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture, governing the Notes, in each case, as amended, supplemented or restated from time to time.
Indenture
"" means any of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC or their respective successors as may be appointed from time to time by the Quotation Agent after consultation with
Independent Investment Banker
 
the Company; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "primary treasury dealer"), another primary treasury dealer shall be substituted therefor by the Company.
"" means a person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
"" means the $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under this Second Supplemental Indenture on the date hereof.
Initial Notes
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and its successors.
Moody's
"" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Second Supplemental Indenture. The Initial Notes and the Additional Notes will be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Second Supplemental Indenture, and unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the Notes will include the Initial Notes and any Additional Notes.
Notes
"" means, with respect to the Depositary, a person who has an account with the Depositary.
Participant
"" means (i) the Company's principal corporate office (including any leasehold interest therein) and (ii) any facility with a primary function of distribution of the Company's products or development (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) which is owned or leased by the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries and is located within the United States of America, unless (as to both (i) and (ii)) the Company's Board of Directors has determined in good faith that such office or facility is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and the Company's Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; provided, however, that any office or facility for which the annual lease obligation on the date as of which the determination is being made is equal to or less than $2.0 million shall in no event be deemed a Principal Property. With respect to any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction or series of related Sale and Lease-Back Transactions, the determination of whether any property is a Principal Property shall be determined by reference to all properties affected by such transaction or series of transactions.
Principal Property
"" means, for purposes of determining the redemption price, such primary treasury dealer as may be selected by the Company.
Quotation Agent
"" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if either of Moody's and S&P ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, the Company may appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act.
Rating Agencies
"" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which period shall be
Rating Event
 
extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible change by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control and (2) consummation of such Change of Control.
"" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC or their respective successors and any other primary treasury dealer selected by the Quotation Agent after consultation with the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the arithmetic average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any Note, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next scheduled interest payment thereon shall be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
"" means any arrangement with any person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company of any Principal Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, which Principal Property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary of the Company to such person.
Sale and Lease-Back Transaction
"" means this Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of the date hereof, by and between the Company and the Trustee, governing the Notes, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the Base Indenture and the terms hereof.
Second Supplemental Indenture
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue. In determining this rate, the price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) shall be assumed to be equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the Capital Stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
Section 1.3 .
Other Definitions
 
Section 2.1 .
Form and Dating
(a) . The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form of hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note will be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes will be in denominations of $2,000 with integral multiples of $1,000 thereof.
General
Exhibit A
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Second Supplemental Indenture and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture will govern and be controlling.
(b) . Notes issued in global form will be substantially in the form of attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon). Notes issued in definitive form will be substantially in the form of attached hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon). Each Global Note will represent such of the outstanding Notes as will be specified therein and each will provide that it will represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby will be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.2 hereof. The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes.
Global Notes
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
DTC
Section 2.2 .
Transfer and Exchange
(a) . A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if:
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
(1) the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; or
 
(2) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee.
Upon the occurrence of either of the preceding events in (1) or (2) above, Definitive Notes will be issued in such names and in any approved denominations as the Depositary will instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.2 or Sections 2.8 or 2.11 of the Base Indenture, will be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and will be, a Global Note. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 2.2(a); however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Sections 2.2(b) or (f) hereof.
(b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also will require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
(1) . Beneficial interests in any Global Note may be transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Global Note. No written orders or instructions will be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.2(b)(1).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
(2) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.2(b)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
(i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
(ii) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase.
Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Second Supplemental Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Trustee will adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.2(f) hereof.
(c) Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests.
A Holder of a Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Global Note or transfer such Definitive Notes to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee will cancel the applicable Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Global Notes.
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to the previous paragraph at a time when a Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order, the Trustee will authenticate one or more Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
A Holder of Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note.
(d) . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.2(d), the Registrar will register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder will present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder will provide any additional required certifications, documents and information, as applicable.
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
(e) . The following legends will appear on the face of all Global Notes issued under this Second Supplemental Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Legends
"THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.2 OF THE SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.2(a) OF THE SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY
 
BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.12 OF THE BASE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
DTC
(f) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note will be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Base Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note will be reduced accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note will be increased accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
 
(g) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
(1) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon receipt of a Company Order or at the Registrar's request.
(2) No service charge will be made to a holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.6 and 9.6 of the Base Indenture).
(3) The Registrar will not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
(4) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes will be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Second Supplemental Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
(5) The Company will not be required:
(A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Notes during a period of 15 days before the day of any selection of Notes for redemption under Section 3.2 of the Base Indenture and ending at the close of business on the day of selection;
(B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part; or
(C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date.
(6) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company will be affected by notice to the contrary.
(7) The Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture.
 
(8) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.2 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
(9) The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Second Supplemental Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Note other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Second Supplemental Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
(10) Neither the Trustee nor any Agent shall have any responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
Section 2.3 .
Issuance of Additional Notes
The Company will be entitled, upon delivery of an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, to issue Additional Notes under this Second Supplemental Indenture which will have identical terms as the Initial Notes issued on the date hereof, other than with respect to the date of issuance and issue price. The Initial Notes issued on the date hereof and any Additional Notes issued will be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Second Supplemental Indenture.
With respect to any Additional Notes, the Company will set forth in a resolution of its Board of Directors and an Officer's Certificate, a copy of each which will be delivered to the Trustee, the following information:
(a) the aggregate principal amount of such Additional Notes to be authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Second Supplemental Indenture; and
(b) the issue price, the issue date and the CUSIP number of such Additional Notes.
Section 3.1 .
Optional Redemption
The Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, either in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of the following amounts, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments.
 
In determining the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, such payments shall be discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate plus 45 basis points.
Calculation of the foregoing shall be made by the Company or on the Company's behalf by such person as the Company shall designate; , , that such calculation shall not be a duty or obligation of the Trustee.
provided
however
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption as long as the Company has deposited with the Paying Agent funds in satisfaction of the applicable redemption price for the Notes or portions thereof that are redeemed.
A partial redemption of the Notes may be effected by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate (or, in the case of Global Securities, based on a method as the Depositary for the Notes may require that most nearly approximates a selection) and may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of the Notes equal to an authorized denomination.
pro rata
No Notes of $2,000 or less can be redeemed in part.
Section 3.2 .
Mandatory Redemption
The Company is not required to make any mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
Section 4.1 .
Liens
The Company will not (nor will it permit any Subsidiary of the Company to) issue, incur, create, assume or guarantee any debt for borrowed money (including all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments) secured by a mortgage, deed of trust, security interest, pledge, lien, charge or other encumbrance (collectively, a "") upon any Principal Property or upon any shares of stock of any Subsidiary of the Company that owns or leases any Principal Property (whether such Principal Property or shares are now existing or owed or hereafter created or acquired) without in any such case effectively providing, substantially concurrently with or prior to the issuance, incurrence, creation, assumption or guaranty of any such secured debt, or the grant of such Lien, that the Notes (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of or guarantee by the Company or such Subsidiary of the Company ranking equally with the Notes) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the Company's option, prior to) such secured debt. The foregoing restriction, however, will not apply to each of the following:
Lien
(a) Liens on property, shares of stock or other assets of any person existing at the time such person becomes a Subsidiary of the Company, provided that such Liens are not incurred in anticipation of such person's becoming a Subsidiary of the Company and do not extend to any assets other than those of such person;
 
(b) Liens on property, shares of stock or other assets existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or a Subsidiary, or Liens thereon to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price thereof, or Liens on property, shares of stock or indebtedness or other assets to secure any debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after, the latest of the acquisition thereof or, in the case of property, the completion of construction, the completion of improvements or the commencement of substantial commercial operation of such property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof, such construction or the making of such improvements;
(c) Liens in favor of, or which secure debt owing to, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(d) Liens existing at the date of the issuance of the Notes;
(e) Liens on property of a person existing at the time such person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such person as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, provided that such Lien was not incurred in anticipation of such merger or consolidation or sale, lease or other disposition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the person merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or such property sold, leased or disposed;
(f) Liens in favor of the United States of America or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of constructing or improving the property subject to such Liens;
(g) inchoate Liens incident to construction or maintenance of real property, or Liens incident to construction or maintenance of real property, now or hereafter filed of record for sums not yet delinquent or being contested in good faith, if reserves or other appropriate provisions, if any, as shall be required by GAAP shall have been made therefore;
(h) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods;
(i) Liens upon specific items of inventory or other goods and proceeds of any person securing such person's obligations in respect of bankers' acceptances issued or created for the account of such person to facilitate the purchase, shipment or storage of such inventory or other goods;
(j) Liens encumbering customary initial deposits and margin deposits and other liens in the ordinary course of business, in each case securing Hedging Obligations and
 
forward contract, option, futures contracts, futures options or similar agreements or arrangements designed to protect the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries from fluctuations in interest rates, currencies or the price of commodities;
(k) Liens arising out of conditional sale, title retention, consignment or similar arrangements for the sale of goods entered into by the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business;
(l) statutory Liens arising in the ordinary course of business with respect to obligations which are not delinquent or are being contested in good faith, if reserves or other appropriate provisions, if any, as shall be required by GAAP shall have been made therefore;
(m) Liens consisting of pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws or similar legislation, including Liens of judgments thereunder which are not currently dischargeable;
(n) Liens consisting of pledges or deposits of property to secure performance in connection with operating leases made in the ordinary course of business to which the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries is a party as lessee;
(o) Liens created by or resulting from any litigation or other proceeding which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, including Liens arising out of judgments or awards against the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries;
(p) Liens imposed by law, such as mechanics', workmen's, repairmen's, materialmen's, carriers', warehousemen's, vendors' or other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business, or governmental (Federal, state or municipal) Liens arising out of contracts for the sale of products or services by the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries, or deposits or pledges to obtain the release of any of the foregoing;
(q) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's Liens, rights of setoff or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution;
(r) Liens for taxes or assessments or governmental charges or levies not yet due or delinquent, or which can thereafter be paid without penalty, or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
(s) Liens on or sales of receivables and customary cash reserves established in connection therewith;
(t) Liens consisting of easements, rights-of-way, zoning restrictions, restrictions on the use of real property, and defects and irregularities in the title thereto, landlords' liens and other similar liens and encumbrances none of which interfere materially with the use of the property covered thereby in the ordinary course of the business of the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries and which do not, in the Company's opinion, materially detract from the value of such properties; or
 
(u) extensions, renewals or replacements of any Liens referred to in the foregoing clauses; provided, however, that (i) the principal amount of indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of indebtedness so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement and (ii) such extension, renewal or replacement Liens will be limited to all or part of the same property and improvement thereon which secured the indebtedness so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement.
Notwithstanding the restrictions in the preceding paragraph, the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company may issue, incur, create, assume or guarantee debt secured by a Lien which would otherwise be subject to such restrictions, without equally and ratably securing the Notes, provided that after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all debt so secured by Liens (not including Liens permitted under clauses (a) through (u) above) plus the aggregate amount of Attributable Debt in respect to Sale and Lease Back Transactions entered into after the date of issuance of the Notes and permitted pursuant to Section 4.3 hereof does not exceed 20% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Section 4.2 .
Offer to Purchase Upon Change of Control Triggering Event
(a) If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (a ""). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a ""). The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
(b) Such notice shall also state:
(i) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 4.2 and that all Notes validly tendered will be accepted for payment;
(ii) the Change of Control Payment and the Change of Control Payment Date;
(iii) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
(iv) that any Note accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment
 
Date unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment of the Notes and the only remaining right of the Holder is to receive payment of the Change of Control Payment upon surrender of the Notes to the Paying Agent;
(v) that Holders electing to have a portion of a Note purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer may only elect to have such Note purchased in integral multiples of $1,000;
(vi) that if a Holder elects to have a Note purchased pursuant to the Change of Control Offer it will be required to surrender the Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Note completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date;
(vii) that a Holder will be entitled to withdraw its election if the Company receives, not later than the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Notes such Holder delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Note purchased; and
(viii) that if Notes are purchased only in part, a new Note of the same type will be issued in principal amount equal to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered.
(c) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
(i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of such Notes properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of such Notes being repurchased.
(d) The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
(e) The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such securities laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions under this Section 4.2, the Company shall comply with such securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4.2 by virtue of any such conflict.
Section 4.3 .
Sale and Lease-Back Transactions
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with respect to any Principal Property, other than any such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction involving a lease for a term of not more than three years or any such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction between the Company and one of its Subsidiaries, or between its Subsidiaries, unless:
(i) the Company or such Subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, would be entitled to incur indebtedness secured by a Lien on the Principal Property involved in such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction at least equal in amount to the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, without equally and ratably securing the Notes, pursuant to Section 4.1 hereof; or
(ii) the proceeds of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction are at least equal to the fair market value of the affected Principal Property (as determined in good faith by the Company's Board of
Directors) and the Company applies the net proceeds of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction within 180 days of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction to either (or a combination of): (A) the prepayment or retirement of debt for borrowed money of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company (other than debt that is subordinated to the Notes or debt owed to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company) that by its terms matures more than 12 months after its creation or (B) the purchase, construction, development, expansion or improvement of comparable properties or facilities.
Section 5.1 .
Events of Default
In addition to the Events of Default set forth in the Base Indenture, the following is an "" with respect to the Notes:
Event of Default
(a) (i) the failure of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to pay indebtedness for money borrowed in an aggregate principal amount of at least $100,000,000, at the later of final maturity and the expiration of any related applicable grace period and such defaulted payment shall not have been made, waived or extended within 30 days after written notice from the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of such indebtedness that is outstanding or (ii) acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness for money borrowed by the
 
Company or any of its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount of at least $100,000,000, if that acceleration results from a default under the instrument giving rise to or securing such indebtedness for money borrowed and such indebtedness has not been discharged in full or such acceleration has not been rescinded or annulled within 30 days after written notice from trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of such indebtedness that is outstanding.
Section 6.1 .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
If any provision of this Second Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision which is required or deemed to be included in this Second Supplemental Indenture by the TIA, such required or deemed provision shall control.
Section 6.2 .
Governing Law
THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF.
Section 6.3
Successors.
All agreements of the Company in this Second Supplemental Indenture and the Notes will bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Second Supplemental Indenture will bind its successors.
Section 6.4 .
Severability
In case any provision in this Second Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes will be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 6.5 .
Counterpart Originals
This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Section 6.6 .
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc
The Table of Contents and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Second Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Second Supplemental Indenture and will in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
Dated as of November 16, 2012
 
EXHIBIT A
[Insert the Global Note Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Second Supplemental Indenture]
CUSIP:055921 AC4
 
promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns, the principal sum of $300,000,000 on December 1, 2022.
Interest Payment Dates: December 1 and June 1
Record Dates: November 15 and May 15
Date:
 
 
 
Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
1. . BMC Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 4.50% per annum from the date hereof until maturity. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on December 1 and June 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an ""). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest will accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , that the first Interest Payment Date will be June 1, 2013. The Company will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
INTEREST
Company
Interest Payment Date
provided
provided, further
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the November 15 or May 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.13 of the Base Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Principal and interest on the Notes will be payable at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar within the City and State of New York or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders of the Notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders of Notes; that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest on all Global Securities and all other Notes the Holders of which will have provided wire transfer instructions to the Company or the Paying Agent. Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
METHOD OF PAYMENT
provided
3. . Initially, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR
4. . This Note is one of a duly authenticated Series of securities of the Company issued and to be issued in one or more Series under the Indenture (the ""), dated as of February 13, 2012 between the Company and the Trustee, as amended by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 16, 2012, between the Company and the Trustee (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made
INDENTURE
Base Indenture
Second Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
 
part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code Sections 77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture will govern and be controlling, and to the extent any provision of the Base Indenture conflicts with the express provisions of the Second Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of the Second Supplemental Indenture will govern and be controlling. The Company will be entitled to issue Additional Notes pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
5. .
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION
The Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, either in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of the following amounts, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date:
 
 
In determining the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, such payments shall be discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate plus 45 basis points.
Calculation of the foregoing shall be made by the Company or on the Company's behalf by such person as the Company shall designate; , , that such calculation shall not be a duty or obligation of the Trustee.
provided
however
On and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption as long as the Company has deposited with the Paying Agent funds in satisfaction of the applicable redemption price.
A partial redemption of the Notes may be effected by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate (or in the case of Global Securities, based on a method as the Depositary for the Notes may require that most nearly approximates a pro rata selection) and may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of the Notes equal to an authorized denomination.
Notice of any redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed at its registered address. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof that are redeemed. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.
6. . Except as set forth in paragraph 7, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes.
MANDATORY REDEMPTION
 
7. .
OFFER TO PURCHASE UPON CHANGE OF CONTROL
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth in the Indenture. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase.
Change of Control Offer
8. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. Notes may be transferred or exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company need not exchange or transfer any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE
9. . The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS
10. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented (i) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; (ii) to provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to Holders of the Notes in case of a merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; (iii) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes; (iv) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder; (v) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Securities of any Series as permitted by the Indenture; (vi) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee and to add to or change any provision of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of trusts hereunder by more than one trustee; or (vii) to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER
11. If an Event of Default relating to the payment of interest or principal involving the Notes has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding may declare the entire principal of all of the outstanding Notes, and any accrued interest, to be due and payable immediately.
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES.
 
12. . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of the Notes, and may otherwise deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH COMPANY
13. . A director, officer, employee or stockholder, of the Company, as such, will not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS
14. . This Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
AUTHENTICATION
15. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
ABBREVIATIONS
16. . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon. The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to:
CUSIP NUMBERS
BMC Software, Inc.
2101 Citywest Boulevard, Suite 2015A
Houston, TX 77042
Attention: General Counsel
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
 
and irrevocably appoint                             to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
Date:                    
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.2 of the Second Supplemental Indenture, check the box below:
Section 4.2
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.2 of the Second Supplemental Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased: $
Date:                    
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP
 

Exhibit 5.1
BMC Software, Inc.
2101 CityWest Boulevard
Houston, Texas 77042-2827
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to BMC Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the public offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.50% Senior Notes due December 1, 2022 (the "Debt Securities"), to be issued under the Indenture, dated as of February 13, 2012 (the "Base Indenture"), as amended and supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 16, 2012 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee for the Debt Securities (the "Trustee").
This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
BMC Software, Inc.
November 16, 2012
Page 2
 
In rendering the opinion stated herein, we have examined and relied upon the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BMC Software, Inc.
November 16, 2012
Page 3
 
We have also examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such records of the Company and such agreements, certificates and receipts of public officials, certificates of officers or other representatives of the Company and others, and such other documents as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinion stated below.
In our examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures including endorsements, the legal capacity and competency of all natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such copies. As to any facts relevant to the opinion stated herein that we did not independently establish or verify, we have relied upon statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and others and of public officials.
We do not express any opinion with respect to the laws of any jurisdiction other than (i) the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and (ii) the laws of the State of New York that, in our experience, are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Registration Statement and to the extent that judicial or regulatory orders or decrees or consents, approvals, licenses, authorizations, validations, filings, recordings or registrations with governmental authorities are relevant, to those required under such laws (all of the foregoing being referred to as "Opined on Law"), or as to the effect of any such non-Opined on Law on the opinion stated herein. The Indenture and the Note Certificates are referred to herein collectively as the "Transaction Documents."
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions stated herein, we are of the opinion that when duly authenticated by the Trustee and issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, the Note Certificates will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms under the laws of the State of New York.
BMC Software, Inc.
November 16, 2012
Page 4
 
The opinion stated herein is subject to the following qualifications:
(a) the opinion stated herein is limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer, preference and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law);
(b) except to the extent expressly stated in the opinion contained herein, we do not express any opinion with respect to the effect on the opinion stated herein of (i) the compliance or non-compliance of any party to any of the Transaction Documents with any laws, rules or regulations applicable to such party or (ii) the legal status or legal capacity of any such party to any of the Transaction Documents;
(c) except to the extent expressly stated in the opinion contained herein, we have assumed that each of the Transaction Documents constitutes the valid and binding obligation of each party to such Transaction Document, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms; and
(d) to the extent that any opinion relates to the enforceability of the choice of New York law and choice of New York forum provisions contained in any Transaction Document, the opinion stated herein is rendered solely in reliance upon New York General Obligations Law sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 and Rule 327(b) of New York Civil Practice Law and Rules and are subject to the qualification that such enforceability may be limited by, in each case, the terms of such sections 5-1401 and 5-1402, as well as by principles of public policy, comity or constitutionality.
In addition, in rendering the foregoing opinion we have assumed that neither the execution and delivery by the Company of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party nor the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Transaction Documents (i) constitutes or will constitute a violation of, or a default under, any lease, indenture, instrument or other agreement to which the Company or its property is subject (except that we do not make the assumption set forth in this clause (i) with respect to those agreements and instruments which are listed in Part II of the Registration Statement or the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K), (ii) contravenes or will contravene any order or decree of any governmental authority to which the Company or its property is subject, (iii) violates or will violate any law, rule or regulation to which the Company or its property is subject or (iv) requires the consent, approval, licensing or authorization of, or any filing, recording or registration with, any governmental authority under any law, rule or regulation of any jurisdiction.
BMC Software, Inc.
November 16, 2012
Page 5
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, being filed on the date hereof, and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. We also hereby consent to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the Rules and Regulations.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP


