FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20040504105742.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K:
 
99.1 Press Release dated May 4, 2004.
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8216 dated March 27, 2003, the following information is being furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K. The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
On May 4, 2004, we issued our first quarter 2004 earnings press release. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of "adjusted earnings per share" to GAAP earnings per share and "free cash flow" to GAAP cash flow are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of "Adjusted EBITDA" to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures  net income (loss) and net cash flow from operating activities  also are provided in the press release. These five measures provide information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
 
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the enumerated non-cash items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
 
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, methodologies in calculating LIFO expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that that store makes to operating performance.
 
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate "Adjusted EBITDA" as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
 
The non-cash charges included in "adjusted earnings per share" relate to (i) estimated effects of the Southern California labor dispute, (ii) the impact of Dominick's store closures, (iii) an accounting change to begin accruing an estimate of physical inventory losses for the period between the last physical inventory count and the balance sheet date, (iv) goodwill impairment charges in accordance with SFAS No. 142, (v) Dominick's long-lived asset impairment charges, and (vi) Dominick's tax benefit on the planned sale. The adjustments are described in the press release. Management believes that excluding these items provides a useful financial measure that will facilitate comparisons of our operating results before, during and after such expenses are incurred, as well as facilitating comparisons of our performance with that of other companies that might not have the non-cash charges or strike effects that we have experienced.
 
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our "adjusted earnings per share" as an indicator of our ongoing operating performance.
 
"Free cash flow", Adjusted EBITDA and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt and fund share repurchases that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities. A portion of the free cash flow that the Company generates in 2004 is expected to be spent on mandatory debt service requirements or other non-discretionary expenditures.
 
Our estimate of earnings per share for 2004 (without giving effect to the impact of the Southern California strike and store closures at Dominick's) is used by management as a baseline for estimating our 2004 net income per share (EPS). The previously announced closure of 12 Dominick's stores reduced earnings by $0.06 per share. Management is unable to estimate the effect that the Southern California strike will have on EPS for 2004, and therefore is not able to provide any reconciliation of any amounts set forth herein with respect to the effect of the Southern California strike.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to GAAP earnings per share as a measure of performance, or as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on Safeway's Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the periods indicated as a measure of liquidity. These measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate "adjusted earnings per share", "free cash flow" and "Adjusted EBITDA" differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
 
Additional limitations include:
 
 
Because of these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
Contact: Julie Hong (925) 467-3832
 
Pleasanton, CAMay 4, 2004
 
Results From Operations
Safeway Inc. today reported net income of $43.1 million ($0.10 per diluted share) for the first quarter ended March 27, 2004. Safeway's results were affected by the impact of the Southern California strike, which Safeway estimates to be $122.0 million after tax ($0.27 per share), and the previously announced closure of 12 under-performing Dominick's stores which reduced earnings by a total of $28.5 million after tax ($0.06 per share). Excluding these items, first-quarter 2004 earnings would have been $0.43 per share.
 
Net income for the first quarter of 2003 was $162.6 million ($0.36 per diluted share). Table 1 of this release quantifies the effect of impairment charges, a change in accounting, and tax benefits which, in the aggregate, reduced last year's net income by $0.09 per share. Excluding these items, first-quarter 2003 earnings would have been $0.45 per share.
 
Sales
Total sales decreased to $7.6 billion in the first quarter of 2004 from $8.0 billion in the first quarter of 2003, primarily due to the impact of the strike, partially offset by new store openings and additional fuel sales.
 
Excluding sales at strike-affected stores, first-quarter 2004 comparable store sales increased 0.5% while identical store sales (which exclude replacement stores) rose 0.1%. Further excluding the effect of fuel sales, comparable store sales declined 0.8% and identical store sales declined 1.3%.
 
"We are pleased with our results given the challenges we faced in the first quarter," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO of Safeway. "Sales picked up in the latter part of the first quarter and continued into the second quarter. Excluding Vons, identical store sales were 1.1% in March and April. This sales improvement is broad-based and we remain optimistic about the remainder of the year."
Gross Profit
Gross profit increased 11 basis points to 29.80% of sales in the first quarter of 2004 from gross profit of 29.69% in the first quarter of 2003. The net impact of the strike in Southern California, the Dominick's store closures and the initial impact of adopting EITF 02-16 in the first quarter of 2003 reduced gross profit 34 basis points in the first quarter of 2004 compared to 2003. The remaining 45-basis point increase was primarily due to increased benefits from centralizing our marketing and procurement functions, partly offset by higher fuel sales in 2004.
 
Operating and Administrative Expense
Operating and administrative expense increased 266 basis points to 27.77% of sales in the first quarter of 2004 compared to operating and administrative expense of 25.11% of sales in the first quarter of 2003. Of this increase, 175 basis points were attributable to the estimated impact of the strike and 55 basis points were attributable to the 2004 Dominick's store closure costs, partially offset by a decrease of 57 basis points due to the write down of long lived assets at Dominick's in 2003. The remaining 93 basis point increase was primarily due to higher employee benefits, higher workers' compensation costs, and increased store occupancy cost.
 
Interest Expense
Interest expense decreased to $96.2 million in the first quarter of 2004 compared to $103.7 million in the first quarter of 2003 primarily due to lower average borrowings in 2004. Despite the strike, the company reduced total debt outstanding by $188 million to $7.63 billion during the first quarter of 2004.
 
Income Tax Expense
Income tax expense was $19.0 million in the first quarter of 2004, including a $4.5 million benefit arising from settlements with various tax authorities. In the first quarter of 2003, income taxes were a benefit of $151.7 million. This included a tax benefit of $249.0 million related to the planned Dominick's sale that was subsequently reversed in the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
Strike Impact
On October 11, 2003 seven UFCW local unions struck the Company's 289 stores in Southern California. An agreement ending the strike was reached on February 26, 2004 and was ratified by the unions on February 28, 2004. The overall cost of the strike reduced first quarter 2004 earnings by approximately $122.0 million after tax ($0.27 per share). Safeway estimated the impact of the strike by comparing internal forecasts immediately before the strike with actual results during and after the strike at strike-affected stores. The estimate includes a contribution of $22.7 million after tax to the union health and welfare trust fund, a contract ratification bonus of $5.8 million after tax and the company's benefit for the quarter under an agreement with Kroger and Albertson's that arises out of the multi-employer bargaining process in Southern California.
 
Dominick's store closures
In January of 2004, Safeway announced it would incur a charge to close 12 under-performing Dominick's stores in the first quarter of 2004. Closure of these stores resulted in a charge of $28.5 million after tax ($0.06 per share) in the quarter.
 
Capital Expenditures
During the first quarter of 2004, Safeway invested $237.2 million in cash capital expenditures. The company opened 3 new stores and closed 12 stores. For the year, the company expects to spend between $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion in cash capital expenditures.
 
Cash Flow
Net cash flow from operating activities was $388.1 million in the first quarter of 2004 compared to $233.5 million in the first quarter of 2003. Net cash flow used by investing activities, which consists principally of cash paid for property additions, increased to $205.9 million in the first quarter of 2004 compared to $106.7 million in 2003. Net cash flow used by financing activities increased to $179.9 million in the first quarter of 2004 compared to $115.6 million in 2003 primarily because of the reduction of debt.
 
Guidance
At the investor conference in December 2003, Safeway provided earnings guidance for 2004 in the range of $1.95$2.03 per share and free cash flow guidance of $700 to $900 million. This guidance excluded the impact of the labor dispute in Southern California and the effect of 12 store closures at Dominick's. With those exclusions, the company is tracking within those ranges.
 
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 50 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,808 stores in the United States and Canada and had annual sales of $35.6 billion in 2003. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
 
Safeway Conference Call
Safeway's investor conference call discussing first-quarter results will be broadcast live over the Internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 AM PDT today. Click on Webcast Events to access the live call. An on-demand webcast of the conference call will also be available for approximately one week following the live call.
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements relate to, among other things, estimates of sales, identical store sales, earnings, capital expenditures, operating improvements, cost reductions and the performance of acquired businesses and are indicated by words or phrases such as "guidance," "on-going," "expects," "estimate," and similar words or phrases. These statements are based on Safeway's current
 
plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, including general business and economic conditions, competitive factors, results of our programs to reduce costs, increase sales and improve capital management, achievement of operating improvements in companies that we acquire, labor costs, labor disputes that may arise from time to time, including the effect of the Southern California labor dispute, the resolution of lawsuits challenging certain provisions of the agreement with Kroger and Albertson's that arises out of the multi-employer bargaining process in Southern California and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions (such as Chicago and Arizona) or are scheduled to expire in the near future (such as Portland, Seattle, Northern California, Denver and Las Vegas), unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time, or unfavorable legislative, regulatory or judicial developments, that could cause actual events and results to vary significantly from those included in or contemplated by such statements. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaims any obligation to do so. Please refer to Safeway's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Annual Report to Stockholders in Safeway's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP NET INCOME TO ADJUSTED INCOME
 
 
TABLE 2: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP CASH FLOW MEASURE TO FREE CASH FLOW
 
 
TABLE 3: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER STATISTICAL DATA
 
 
TABLE 4: ROLLING FOUR QUARTER ADJUSTED EBITDA
 


