FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20050223152649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
 
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
 
A copy of the text of the By-Law amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(b) Exhibits.
 
  3.2    A copy of the text of an amendment to the Company's By-Laws, adopted as of February 18, 2005.
 
99.1    Press Release dated February 18, 2005.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.2
 
 
 
Increase in Authorized Number of Directors
 
WHEREAS, Article V of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended ("Certificate of Incorporation"), provides that the Board of Directors shall consist of not less than 6 nor more than 12 directors, with the exact number to be determined by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors;
 
WHEREAS, Article III of the Company's By-Laws, amended and restated as of 10/21/04 ("By-Laws"), provides that the number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board shall be nine;
 
WHEREAS, the Board has the authority to adopt, repeal, alter, amend or rescind the By-Laws of the Company pursuant to Article XI of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Section 109 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the first sentence of Section 1 of Article III of the Company's By-Laws be, and it hereby is, amended to read as follows:
 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER, that all other terms of the By-Laws remain unchanged and in full force and effect.

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
(February 18, 2005)  Safeway Inc. announced the appointment of Douglas J. Mackenzie to the company's board of directors. Mr. Mackenzie, a partner at the venture capital firm of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers in Menlo Park, California, will become the 10
PLEASANTON, Calif.
th
member of Safeway's board of directors, effective March 10, 2005. KPCB has backed entrepreneurs in over 450 ventures since its founding in 1972, including well-known names such as AOL, Electronic Arts, Juniper Networks, and Google.
 
"Doug is an outstanding addition to our Board," said Steven A. Burd, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Safeway. "He has worked with many successful businesses, and his experience with entrepreneurial ventures should prove especially valuable for our high-growth new ventures group, Blackhawk Marketing Services. BMS is a wholly owned subsidiary we established three years ago to leverage our store traffic and develop value-added solutions for our customers. Our gift card business is a good example of a value-added solution that BMS developed into a significant business for Safeway."
 
Since joining KPCB in 1989, Mr. Mackenzie has been actively involved with a number of diverse companies, including Edmark, Marimba, Pivotal Corporation, Preview Travel, and Visio. He currently serves on the board of directors of E.piphany, a software company, as well as on the boards of some private technology companies.
 
Mr. Mackenzie holds a bachelor's degree in economics and a master's degree in industrial engineering from Stanford University, and an MBA from Harvard University. He serves as a board member of the Stanford Engineering Advisory Council, and he teaches part-time at the Stanford School of Engineering.
 
ABOUT SAFEWAY
 
Safeway is a Fortune 50 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,815 stores in the United States and Canada and had annual sales of $35.6 billion in 2003. Safeway's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
 
Contacts:
 
Brian Dowling, 925-467-3787 (Media)
Julie Hong, 925-467-3832 (Investors)
 


