FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20050701131925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 1, 2005, Safeway Inc. ("Safeway") entered into a Credit Agreement by and among Safeway and Canada Safeway Limited ("CSL"), as borrowers, Banc of America Securities LLC and JP Morgan Securities, Inc., as joint arrangers, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent, Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, Citicorp USA, Inc. and BNP Paribas, as co-syndication agents, U.S. Bank National Association, as documentation agent, and the lenders that are party to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides (i) to Safeway a $1,350,000,000 five-year revolving credit facility (the "Domestic Facility"), (ii) to Safeway and CSL a Canadian facility of up to $250,000,000 (the "Canadian Facility") for U.S. Dollar and Canadian Dollar advances and (iii) to Safeway a $400,000,000 subfacility of the Domestic Facility for issuance of standby and commercial letters of credit. The Credit Agreement also provides for an increase in the credit facility commitments up to an additional $500,000,000, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Safeway will guaranty the obligations of CSL under the Credit Agreement.
 
A copy of the Credit Agreement was previously filed and is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on June 7, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


