FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20050314182112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Amendments to the Registrant.s Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant.s Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) On March 10, 2005, the Board of Directors of Safeway Inc. approved the terms of a Supplemental Retirement Benefit Agreement (the "Agreement") between Safeway Inc. and Steven A. Burd, its President and Chief Executive Officer. The Agreement was previously approved and recommended by the Executive Compensation Committee. In making its recommendation, the Committee reviewed comparative data from approximately 150 public companies and from certain companies in the food industry. The Committee determined that Mr. Burd's retirement benefit was below that for chief executive officers of the companies examined. In order to retain Mr. Burd's services and to make his retirement benefits comparable to those of other executives, the Committee approved the terms set forth in the Agreement, which will place Mr. Burd approximately at the median of the executives examined.
 
Under the terms of the Agreement, Mr. Burd's retirement benefit is calculated as a percentage of his final average compensation. If Mr. Burd terminates employment with Safeway Inc. at age 55, Mr. Burd is eligible to receive a retirement benefit equal to 50% of his final average compensation, and this percentage increases by 1% for each full year of service up to a maximum of 60% of his final average compensation. Any amount determined pursuant to this formula will be offset by the actuarial equivalent of Mr. Burd's benefits under the Employee Retirement Plan of Safeway Inc., the Retirement Restoration Plan of Safeway Inc. and any other of Mr. Burd's defined benefit retirement plans or programs. Mr. Burd is currently 55 years old.
 
For purposes of the Agreement, final average compensation means the average of Mr. Burd's base salary and bonus for the five consecutive years during Mr. Burd's final ten years of service during which the total of his base salary and bonus was the highest.
 
A copy of the agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(b) On March 10, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an amendment to the Safeway Inc. 1999 Amended and Restated Equity Participation Plan. The Plan previously was amended on June 2, 2004, subject to stockholder approval, to revise the terms of option awards to new directors and to eliminate the annual automatic grant of stock options to continuing directors. The Company has determined that stockholder approval is not required for the 2004 amendments under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards, and this current amendment eliminates the condition requiring stockholder approval.
 
A copy of the amendment dated March 10, 2005 to the Company's 1999 Amended and Restated Equity Participation Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(b) On March 10, 2005, Safeway Inc. issued a press release announcing the resignation, effective March 31, 2005, of Peter A. Magowan from the Company's Board of Directors.
 
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(a) On March 10, 2005, the Board of Directors of Safeway Inc. amended the By-Laws of the Company. Specifically, the first sentence of Section 1 of Article III of the Company's By-Laws was amended, effective March 31, 2005, to decrease the number of directors constituting the Board from ten to nine.
 
A copy of the text of the By-Law amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
On March 10, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which covers all employees and directors of the Company. The new Code of Business Conduct and Ethics encompasses and supersedes the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for the Company's Senior Officers, which has been posted on the Company's web site. The new Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available at .
www.safeway.com/investor_relations
 
A copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is attached hereto as Exhibit 14 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.2
 
 
 
Decrease in Authorized Number of Directors
 
WHEREAS, Article V of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended ("Certificate of Incorporation"), provides that the Board of Directors shall consist of not less than 6 nor more than 12 directors, with the exact number to be determined by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors;
 
WHEREAS, Article III of the Company's By-Laws, amended and restated as of 02/18/05 ("By-Laws"), provides that the number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board shall be ten;
 
WHEREAS, the Board has the authority to adopt, repeal, alter, amend or rescind the By-Laws of the Company pursuant to Article XI of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Section 109 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that, effective March 31, 2005, the first sentence of Section 1 of Article III of the Company's By-Laws be, and it hereby is, amended to read as follows:
 
"The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board shall be nine."
 
RESOLVED FURTHER, that all other terms of the By-Laws remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
This Agreement for a supplemental retirement benefit (the "Agreement"), effective as of March 10, 2005, is entered into by and between Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and Steven A. Burd (the "Executive"). This Agreement is intended to be an unfunded deferred compensation arrangement for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA").
 
Capitalized terms, unless defined in this Agreement, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Employee Retirement Plan of Safeway Inc. and Its Domestic Subsidiaries (the "Retirement Plan").
 
 
the Executive renders services to the Company as its President and Chief Executive Officer; and,
WHEREAS,
 
the Company, in order to retain the services of the Executive both on its own behalf and on behalf of its affiliated companies, desires to provide a supplemental retirement benefit to the Executive on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS,
 
in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
The Company agrees to pay the Executive upon his retirement from the Company and its affiliates an annual supplemental retirement benefit (the "Supplemental Retirement Benefit") equal to 50% of the Executive's Final Average Compensation, subject to incremental increases of 1% of Final Average Compensation for each full Year of Service after the Executive attains age 55, to a maximum of 60% of Final Average Compensation. For purposes of this Agreement, "Final Average Compensation" shall mean the average of the Executive's base salary and bonus for the five consecutive years during his final ten Years of Service during which the total of his base salary and bonus was the highest.
1. .
Supplemental Retirement Benefit
 
The amount of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit as determined under Section 1 shall be offset by the Actuarial Equivalent (as defined in the Retirement Restoration Plan of Safeway, Inc. (the "Restoration Plan")) of the Executive's benefits under (i) the Retirement Plan, (ii) the Restoration Plan, and (iii) any other of the Executive's defined benefit retirement plans or programs under which the Executive has or had a vested accrued benefit.
2. .
Offset
The Executive shall at all times be 100% vested in his Supplemental Retirement Benefit; provided, however, that the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be forfeited immediately upon the Executive's discharge from employment with the Company for "Cause." In that event, the Executive will have no right to receive any compensation in respect of his forfeited Supplemental Retirement Benefit under this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean: (i) the Executive's act of fraud, dishonesty, misappropriation, illegal conduct, or gross misconduct that has a material impact on the assets or reputation of the Company; or (iii) the Executive's conviction of or plea of nolo contendere to a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude and materially impacting the Company.
3. .
Vesting
 
The normal form of distribution of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be a straight life annuity of monthly payments over the lifetime of the Executive, with payments ceasing on the first day of the month in which the Executive dies; provided, however, that if the Executive is married at the time the Supplemental Retirement Benefit becomes payable, then the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be paid in the actuarially reduced form of a joint and 100% survivor annuity payable to the Executive and the Executive's spouse. If the Executive dies prior to his retirement and while employed by the Company, the Executive's spouse shall be paid a straight life annuity which is the Actuarial Equivalent (as defined in the Restoration Plan) of the benefit the Executive would have received had he retired from the Company on the date of his death, having elected to receive his benefit in the form of a straight life annuity.
4. .
Form of Distribution
 
Distribution of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall commence as soon as administratively practicable following the date which is six months after the Executive's separation of service with the Company and its affiliates.
5. .
Time of Distribution
 
6. .
Unfunded
 
(a) The Company intends to set aside such amounts as are necessary to provide the Executive with his Supplemental Retirement Benefit. While the Company shall set aside amounts which, based on certain assumptions, are intended, together with investment earnings thereon, to be sufficient to provide the Supplemental Retirement Benefit to the Executive, the Company does not guarantee that such amounts shall be set aside each year.
 
(b) All amounts set aside by the Company to meet its obligations under the Agreement shall remain part of the general assets of the Company and shall remain subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Company until paid to the Executive (or his beneficiary, if applicable).
 
(c) The right of the Executive or his beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, and neither the Executive nor his beneficiary shall have any rights in or against the Supplemental Retirement Benefit or any other specific assets of the Executive. All amounts set aside to fund the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of by the Company at such time and for such purposes as it may deem appropriate. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind for the benefit of the Executive or his beneficiaries or to create any fiduciary relationship between the Company and the Executive or his beneficiaries.
 
This Agreement does not confer upon the Executive the right to be retained in the Company's employ, and the Executive shall remain subject to discharge, discipline and termination to the same extent as if this Agreement did not exist. This Agreement creates no rights or obligations other than those expressed herein.
7. .
No Employment Rights
 
The Company may at any time amend or terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, without the consent of the Executive or his beneficiary. No amendment, however, shall reduce the Executive's Supplemental Retirement Benefit under the terms of the Agreement as in effect immediately prior to the amendment or termination.
8. .
Amendment and Termination
 
9. .
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
(a) . No right or interest of any kind in the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be transferable or assignable by the Executive or his beneficiary, or be subject to alienation, encumbrance, garnishment, attachment, execution or levy of any kind, voluntary or involuntary. This prohibition shall not apply to the creation, assignment or recognition of a right to any interest payable hereunder with respect to the Executive pursuant to a domestic relations order that satisfies the requirements of a qualified domestic relations order ("QDRO") as that term is defined in Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") as if this Agreement were qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code. Payment pursuant to such domestic relations order may be made as soon as administratively feasible following determination by the Company that said order satisfies the requirements of a QDRO.
No Assignment or Transfer
 
(b) . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto in respect of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit. This Agreement supersedes and replaces in its entirety all prior oral and written agreements, understandings, commitments, and practices between the parties with respect to the Supplemental Retirement Benefit.
Entire Agreement
 
(c) .
Claims
 
(i) . If the Executive submits a claim for payment of benefits under this Agreement and the Company determines that the Executive is not eligible for payment of benefits or, if applicable, is not eligible for payment of benefits in the amount requested, then the Company shall, within a reasonable period of time, but no later than 90 days after receipt of the written claim, notify the Executive of the denial of the claim. Such notice of denial: (1) shall be in writing; (2) shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Executive; and (3) shall contain: (A) the specific reason or reasons for denial of the claim; (B) a specific reference to the pertinent provisions of the Agreement or administrative rules and regulations upon which the denial is based; (C) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Executive to perfect the claim; and (D) an explanation of the Agreement's appeal procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the Executive's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review.
Notice of Denial
 
(ii) . Within 60 days of the receipt by the Executive of the written notice of denial of the claim, the Executive may file a written request with the Company that it conduct a full and fair review of the denial of the Executive's claim for benefits. The Executive's written request must include a statement of the grounds on which the Executive appeals the original claim denial. The Company shall deliver to the Executive a written decision on the claim promptly, but not later than 60 days after the receipt of the Executive's request for review, except that if there are special circumstances that require an extension of time for processing, the 60-day period shall be extended to 120 days, in which case written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Executive prior to the end of the 60-day period.
Reconsideration Procedures
 
(d) The provisions of this Agreement shall be regarded as severable, and if any provisions or any part of this Agreement are declared invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and enforceability of the remainder of such provisions or parts and the applicability of this Section shall not be affected thereby.
Severability.
 
(e) This Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to its principles of conflict of laws to the extent not preempted by ERISA.
Governing Law.
 
(f) For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by messenger or in person, or when mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, as follows:
Notices.
 
 
or such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
 
(g) . Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the consolidation of the Company with, or its merger into, any other corporation, or the sale by the Company of all or substantially all of its properties or assets; and this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, be binding upon and be enforceable by, any successor surviving or resulting corporation, or other entity to which such assets shall be transferred. Unless otherwise agreed to by the Executive, the Company shall require any successor or assign (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, by agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Executive (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession or assignment had taken place. This Agreement shall not otherwise be assigned by
Binding Nature
 
the Company. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as previously defined and any successor or assign to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which executes and delivers the agreement provided for in this paragraph or which otherwise becomes bound by all the terms and provisions of this Agreement by operation of law. This Agreement shall not be terminated by the voluntary or involuntary dissolution of the Company.
 
the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date set forth above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
,
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
 
 
Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), adopted The 1999 Amended and Restated Equity Participation Plan of Safeway Inc. (the "Plan"), effective upon the approval of the Plan by the stockholders of the Company. The stockholders of the Company approved the Plan at the Company's meeting of stockholders held on May 11, 1999. The Plan was amended to increase the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan by an amendment to the Plan adopted by the Board on February 25, 2003, and such amendment was approved at the Company's annual meeting of stockholders on May 15, 2003. The Plan was further amended by the Board of Directors on February 26, 2004 and May 2, 2004. The Plan was further amended by the Board of Directors on June 2, 2004, subject to approval of such amendment by the stockholders of the Company. The Company desires to amend the amendment to the Plan adopted on June 2, 2004 to eliminate the condition requiring approval of such amendment by the stockholders of the Company because such approval is not required.
 
Pursuant to Section 11.2 of the Plan, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") hereby adopts this Amendment to the Plan, effective as of March 10, 2005.
 
The amendment to the Plan adopted on June 2, 2004 is hereby amended to eliminate the condition requiring approval of such amendment by the stockholders of the Company and the requirement that such amendment be presented to the stockholders of the Company, and such amendment shall be and remain effective as of June 2, 2004. Accordingly, the exercisability of Options granted to Independent Directors under the terms and conditions of the Plan (as amended by such amendment) shall not be subject to the approval of such amendment by the stockholders of the Company.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board of Directors of Safeway Inc. has hereunder adopted this Amendment to the Plan as indicated by the signature of the duly authorized officer of Safeway Inc. this 10th day of March, 2005.
 

EXHIBIT 14
 
Dear Fellow Employee:
 
Through the years, Safeway has earned a well-deserved reputation for honesty, integrity and fair dealing. It's up to each of us to protect and enhance that reputation. The Company's overall Ethics and Compliance Program ("Program") consists of this ("Code") and the specific code of conduct and ethics policies Safeway has implemented at the store and corporate levels ("Policies").
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
 
This Code sets forth some basic principles and guidelines that have evolved over time to reflect changing laws, regulations and Company policies. More detailed discussion is contained in each of the Policies. The guidelines set out in this Code are to be followed at all levels of the Company by our corporate directors, officers and employees.
 
Most of the rules on the following pages are based on common sense and decency. If we abide by these rules and the Policies, and above all else, , we will avoid both legal problems and the appearance of impropriety.
if we always do what we know to be right
 
Each of us is responsible for knowing and complying with this Code and the Policies. If you have any questions about any aspects of the Code or the Policies, please ask your supervisor or contact the Legal Division.
 
 
 
Purpose
 
Safeway conforms to the highest legal and ethical standards wherever we do business. This Code of Business Conduct and Ethics contains general guidelines for conducting the business of the Company consistent with these standards. Our hard-earned reputation must not be compromised, and any action that could appear to do so is unacceptable. As a Safeway employee, you are expected to take to carry out these standards. You must conduct all aspects of Safeway's business honestly, ethically and fairly, including your relationships with co-workers, customers, suppliers and competitors.
affirmative steps
 
This Code applies to all of our corporate directors, officers and employees. We refer to all persons covered by this Code as "Company employees" or simply "employees." This Code is intended to qualify as a "code of ethics" within the meaning of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder.
 
Throughout this Code, the terms "Safeway" and the "Company" refer to Safeway Inc. and its majority owned or controlled subsidiaries, and to operations wherever we do business. These principles apply to all of the foregoing.
 
Seeking Help and Information
 
If you have any questions about your responsibilities, If you have questions about Safeway policies or the law, Communication is the key to effective compliance with the guidelines set forth in the Code. We encourage you to contact your supervisor for help first. If your supervisor cannot answer your question or if you do not feel comfortable contacting your supervisor, contact the Legal Division. The Company has established a reporting Hotline that is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at 1-800-283-5965. You may remain anonymous and will not be required to reveal your identity in calls to the Hotline, although providing your identity may assist the Company in addressing your questions or concerns. The Board of Directors has appointed a Chief Governance Officer (the Company's Senior Vice President and General Counsel), whom you also may contact for questions, concerns and/or reporting purposes.
ask.
ask.
 
Reporting Non-Compliance
 
Each employee has an obligation to report to management any conduct that he or she believes in good faith to be an ethical or legal violation. If you observe any unethical or unlawful conduct, you are expected to report it to your supervisor, the Chief Governance Officer, the Legal Division, or through the reporting Hotline. Your information will be handled discreetly and in accordance with the law and Company procedures.
 
Furthermore, the Board of Directors has created a process for employees to transmit to the Audit Committee complaints relating to accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing matters, or other deceptive financial practices, such as securities fraud, wire fraud or bank fraud. If you wish to submit to the Audit Committee in good faith an accounting or securities fraud complaint, you can call 1-866-239-1376, and the matter will be forwarded appropriately. The Company's Whistleblower Policy is available at
www.safeway.com/investor_relations.
 
Policy Against Retaliation
 
The Company prohibits any retaliation, direct or indirect, against an employee who, in good faith, seeks help or reports known or suspected violations of the Code or related Policies.
 
Disciplinary Action and Waivers
 
It is Company policy that any employee who violates this Code will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. Any supervisor or manager who directs or approves any such violations, who knows of such violations and fails to act promptly to correct them, or who retaliates or tolerates retaliation against any employee who, in good faith, reports a violation, will likewise be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
 
Waivers of this Code for employees may be made only by an executive officer of the Company. Waivers of the Code for executive officers and directors may be made only by the Board of Directors, and any such waiver will be disclosed promptly to stockholders.
 
 
Each employee has an obligation to comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company's operations. These include laws covering insider trading, antitrust prohibitions, information privacy, employment discrimination or harassment, bribery and kickbacks, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, illegal political contributions, offering or receiving gratuities, environmental hazards, occupational health and safety, false or misleading financial information or misuse of corporate assets. A general description of some of these laws and regulations is included in this Code. A more detailed discussion is available in the Policies.
 
If there is a federal, state or local law or a provision in a collective bargaining agreement applicable to your employment that supersedes a provision of this Code or any of the Policies, your conduct will be guided by the applicable law or collective bargaining agreement. You are expected to understand and comply with all laws, rules and regulations that apply to your job position. If any doubt exists about whether a course of action is lawful or in compliance with this Code or the Policies, you should seek advice from your supervisor or the Legal Division.
 
Compliance with Insider Trading Laws
 
All Company employees are prohibited from trading in the stock or other securities of the Company while in possession of material, nonpublic information about the Company. Company employees also are prohibited from recommending, "tipping" or suggesting that anyone else buy or sell stock or other securities of the Company on the basis of any information not publicly known which might be material to investors in the Company's securities. In addition, Company employees who obtain material nonpublic information about another company in the course of their employment are prohibited from trading in the stock or securities of the other company while in possession of such information or "tipping" others to trade on the basis of such information.
 
Material information is information, not publicly disclosed, which if known probably would affect the price of Company securities. Some examples of material information include acquisitions, mergers, asset sales, stock splits, earnings, major management changes, expansion plans and other important corporate developments.
 
Antitrust Laws
 
Antitrust laws are designed to protect competition. In general, they forbid any agreement that restrains trade. Safeway has a long-standing policy of complying fully and in every respect with all antitrust laws that apply to its operations. Compliance is vital to the Company and each employee.
 
No employee of the Company may have any discussion or communication with any representative of a competitor concerning past, present or future prices, pricing policies, bids, discounts, promotions, terms or conditions of sale, royalties, choice of suppliers, allocation of territories, sales or customers, limitations on production or distribution, or future location of stores. In addition, discussions with competitors concerning costs, including labor rates and cost of goods and services, can be sensitive from an antitrust point of view and any such discussions should be reviewed in advance with the Legal Division. It follows, of course, that there never must be any agreement, express or implied, with a competitor concerning any of these subjects. This includes formal agreements, as well as tacit understandings and informal "off the record" conversations.
 
 
A conflict of interest can occur when an employee's private interest interferes, or appears to interfere, with the interests of the Company as a whole. Employees should avoid outside work, interests or activities that influence their ability to act in the interests of the Company or that may make it difficult to perform Company work objectively and effectively. Conflicts of interest also arise when an employee or member of his/her family receives improper personal benefit as a result of his or her position with Safeway. You must not use your Company position to obtain improper personal benefit for you or a member of your family.
 
The Company requires that employees disclose any situations that reasonably would be expected to give rise to a conflict of interest. If you suspect that you have a conflict of interest, or something that others could reasonably perceive as a conflict of interest, you must report it to your supervisor or the Legal Division. Your supervisor and the Legal Division will work with you to determine whether you have a conflict of interest and, if so, how best to address it.
 
 
As an employee of the Company, you have an obligation to advance the Company's interests when the opportunity to do so arises. If you discover or are presented with a business opportunity through the use of corporate property, information or because of your position with the Company, you are prohibited from taking such opportunity for yourself. No employee may use corporate property, information or his or her position with the Company for personal gain nor should he or she compete with the Company.
 
 
Employees have access to a variety of confidential information while employed at the Company. Confidential information includes all non-public information that might be of use to competitors, or, if disclosed, harmful to the Company or its customers. Employees have a duty to safeguard all confidential information of the Company or third parties with which the Company conducts business, except when disclosure is authorized or legally mandated. An employee's obligation to protect confidential information continues after he or she leaves the Company.
 
 
Truthful and Honest Dealings
 
Safeway's very survival depends on maintaining our hard-earned reputation for honesty and integrity. We must be honest and act with integrity in all our dealings with our customers, stockholders, suppliers, the communities in which we do business, and with each other. We must price and label accurately, be truthful in our advertising, and give full measure and weight in the merchandise we sell. Dishonest conduct cannot be tolerated. This applies to employee.
every
 
Business Relationships With Suppliers
 
The Company deals fairly and honestly with its suppliers. This means that our relationships with suppliers are based primarily on price, quality, service and reputation. Employees dealing with suppliers should carefully guard their objectivity. Specifically, no employee should accept or solicit any personal benefit from a supplier or potential supplier that might compromise, or appear to compromise, his/her objective assessment of the supplier's products and prices. The only basis for business decision at Safeway must be the Company's best interests. Any private business between you and a supplier must be conducted with no special advantage sought or accepted by reason of your Company position.
any
 
Relationships with Competitors
 
The Company is committed to free and open competition in the marketplace. Each employee should endeavor to deal fairly with the Company's competitors. For further information regarding appropriate and inappropriate business conduct with competitors, see "Compliance with Laws and Regulations - Antitrust Laws" above.
 
 
Food Safety and Sanitation
 
Food safety is one of our highest priorities. To assure that the products we offer for sale are safe, it is Safeway's policy to operate clean and sanitary facilities that comply with or exceed all national and local consumer protection and public health laws, and to prevent any unsanitary conditions. All employees are required to comply with all applicable health and safety laws, regulations and policies relevant to their jobs.
 
Environmental Compliance
 
It is the Company's policy to conduct all of its business safely and without unacceptable risks to the environment or to the health and safety of its employees and the public, and to support and follow all laws and other governmental standards for environmental issues. All Company employees should strive to conserve resources and reduce waste through recycling and other energy conservation measures.
 
To carry out this policy, Safeway will identify and control potential environmental hazards from its operations and products, conduct ongoing environmental compliance training and assessments and keep informed about health, safety and environmental risks, standards and legal requirements to insure that the spirit as well as the letter of this policy is carried out.
 
Workplace Safety
 
The elimination of accidents to employees and customers is one of our greatest responsibilities. Safety is to take precedence over any kind of shortcut, and every reasonable attempt should be made to reduce the possibility of injuries. Management is responsible for maintaining a sound safety program and encouraging a high level of safety awareness.
 
 
Safeway recognizes the value and worth of each employee, regardless of the employee's race, color, national origin, ancestry, sex, mental and physical disability, age, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status or other legally protected status. The Company also strives to provide working conditions and a work climate that protects both the physical and psychological well-being of employees.
 
Equality of Opportunity
 
Every Safeway employee is entitled to an equal chance to succeed regardless of the employee's race, color, national origin, ancestry, sex, mental and physical disability, age, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status or other legally protected status. This means that we comply fully with applicable human rights and employment equity laws, and we do not discriminate unlawfully in any aspect of employment, including recruiting, hiring, compensation, promotion or termination. As more fully set forth in Safeway's Policy on Harassment, which is posted on the Safeway intranet and available from your manager and Human Resources Advisor, this also means that Safeway will not tolerate sexual harassment or harassment based on any other legally protected status.
 
Anyone who feels that he or she has seen or experienced any form of harassment or discrimination, whether directed to him or her or to another person, should immediately report the situation to his or her supervisor, another manager, to his or her Human Resources representative, the DivisionVice President of Human Resources, the SVP of Corporate Human Resources or to the Security Hotline (1-800-283-5965). You also may contact the appropriate federal or state agency.
 
Supervisors, and in fact all employees, are expected affirmatively to foster an environment free of discrimination, harassment and unequal treatment, an environment in which all employees may develop their talents to the fullest. Supervisors are responsible for taking effective action to make sure the Company's policies prohibiting discrimination and harassment are disseminated, understood and followed.
 
The Company will not tolerate retaliation against any employee who in good faith reports a violation of this Code or the Policies prohibiting discrimination and harassment, or who participates in an investigation or otherwise opposes harassment.
 
Wage and Hour
 
Safeway is committed to a policy of full compliance with all applicable federal, state and provincial wage and hour laws. In the U.S., in accordance with the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and applicable state law, all employees are classified as either administrative (that is, exempt from FLSA overtime provisions) or non-exempt (i.e., overtime eligible). The Company maintains records of the hours worked by all non-exempt personnel, in most cases by means of an electronic time and attendance record-keeping system which has been designed to minimize the potential for wage and hour violations. Notices are posted in all work facilities to advise employees on a variety of wage and hour matters, including the right of non-exempt employees to be paid for all hours worked (employees shall not and shall not be required to work "off-the-clock"), the standards for receipt of overtime compensation, and limits on the permissible hours of work and job duties for minors. Any failure to adhere to the Company's wage and hour policies will result in termination or other appropriate disciplinary actions.
 
 
Every employee is responsible for protecting the assets of the Company  its funds, its property and the information it generates and uses in the course of doing business. Whether for personal benefit or any other reason, none of these things must be misused. They may not be taken, sold, traded, given away or destroyed without proper permission.
 
ACCURACY OF FINANCIAL REPORTS AND OTHER PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS
 
As a public company we are subject to various securities laws, regulations and reporting obligations. Both federal law and our policies require the disclosure of accurate and complete information regarding the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Inaccurate, incomplete or untimely reporting will not be tolerated and can severely damage the Company and result in legal liability.
 
Company Records
 
Accurate and reliable records are crucial to our business. Our records are the basis of our earnings statements, financial reports and other disclosures to the public and guide our business decision-making and strategic planning. Company records include purchase and sales information, payroll, timecards, travel and expense reports, e-mails, accounting and financial data, measurement and performance records, electronic data files and all other records maintained in the ordinary course of our business. All Company records must be complete, accurate and reliable in all material respects.
 
Accuracy and Integrity of Financial Reports
 
So that Safeway can effectively control its affairs, maintain the integrity of its financial reporting and comply with legal requirements, all financial transactions and funds must be properly recorded and accounted for on the Company's books, supported by adequate documentation. Records must be accurate, complete and auditable. They must conform to the law, generally accepted accounting principles and Company policy. Each employee is responsible for preserving the confidentiality of a variety of information that, if released to an unauthorized person or organization, may lose its value or hurt the Company's competitive position. This includes business and financial information, customer account information, new project and marketing plans, cost data, salary information, personnel information and medical records.
 
The Company's principal financial officers and other employees working in the accounting and internal audit departments have a special responsibility to ensure that all of our financial disclosures are full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable. These employees must understand and strictly comply with generally accepted accounting principles and all standards, laws and regulations for accounting and financial reporting of transactions, estimates and forecasts.
 
Records and books will be audited from time to time to be sure all financial and operating information is complete and reliable, and complies with applicable laws, regulations and Company policies. It is specifically prohibited to make false or misleading statements to the Company's auditors.
 
 
Safeway supports the democratic political process. Employees as individuals are encouraged to take part, on a voluntary basis, in political and governmental affairs. Employees who represent Safeway in political or governmental matters must comply fully with all laws that regulate corporate participation in public affairs. Safeway's Political Contribution Policy is available at .
www.safeway.com/investor_relations
 
 
This Code contains a description of the general rules for conducting the business of the Company consistent with the highest standards of business ethics. It is important that we understand and adhere to these standards and those contained in the Policies.
 
If you have any questions about these guidelines or the Policies, please contact your supervisor, the Legal Division or the Hotline at 1-800-283-5965.
 
This Code is not a contract of employment and does not create any contractual rights of any kind between the Company, its corporate directors, officers or employees or between the Company and third parties. Moreover, unless a Company employee's terms and conditions of employment are governed by a collective bargaining agreement, employment with the Company is on an "at will" basis. This means that an employee may terminate his or her employment at any time for any reason and similarly, the Company may terminate an employee's employment at any time for any reason, or for no reason at all. The Company, in its sole discretion, may modify the terms of the Code and its related Policies, without prior notice, at any time. Such modifications shall immediately become effective with respect to all Company employees.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 Safeway Inc. (NYSE: SWY) announced today that Peter A. Magowan, managing general partner and president of the San Francisco Giants and former chairman, president and chief executive officer of Safeway, is retiring from the company's board of directors, effective March 31, 2005.
March 10, 2005
 
Mr. Magowan has been associated with Safeway for the past 37 years, as an employee and more recently as a director. "As a former CEO of Safeway, I have been ineligible to participate on the committees of the Board of Directors, where increasingly much of the substantive work is done," Mr. Magowan said. "I'm leaving the Board to further strengthen its independence. I have enjoyed my work with Safeway, and I wish the company, its employees and stockholders a bright and prosperous future."
 
Mr. Magowan joined Safeway in 1968 as a real estate negotiator in Washington, D.C., and after holding various positions in the company, he became chairman and chief executive officer in 1980. In 1986 he helped the company fend off an unsolicited takeover attempt and led it through a subsequent leveraged buyout. In 1993 Mr. Magowan resigned as CEO of Safeway to devote full time to his position with the San Francisco Giants. He is also a director of Caterpillar, Inc., DaimlerChrysler AG and Spring Group PLC.
 
"Peter Magowan has served this company long and well," said Steven A. Burd, Safeway's chairman, president and CEO. "He has been a significant contributor to the success of the company, an invaluable resource and an outstanding director. On behalf of his fellow directors and the entire management team, I wish him continued success with the Giants and his other endeavors."
 
Safeway announced on February 18 that it was adding Douglas Mackenzie to its Board, increasing the size of the Board to 10 members. With Mr. Magowan's retirement, the number of Board members will return to nine.
 
About Safeway
 
Safeway is a 50 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,802 stores in the United States and Canada and had annual sales of $35.8 billion in 2004. Safeway's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
Fortune
 


