FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20051018100354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
On October 18, 2005, we issued our third quarter 2005 earnings press release. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of "adjusted earnings per share" to GAAP earnings per share and "free cash flow" to GAAP cash flow are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of "Adjusted
 
EBITDA" to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures  net income and net cash flow from operating activities  and "Adjusted Debt" also are provided in the press release. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures provides information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
 
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the enumerated non-cash items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
 
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, methodologies in calculating LIFO expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that that store makes to operating performance.
 
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate "Adjusted EBITDA" as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
 
The non-cash charges included in "adjusted earnings per share" relate to impairment charges at our Texas stores and pro forma stock option expense. These non-cash and all other adjustments are described in the press release. Management believes that excluding these items provides a useful financial measure that will facilitate comparisons of our operating results before, during and after such expenses are incurred, as well as facilitating comparisons of our performance with that of other companies that might not have the non-cash charges, union buyouts and health and welfare plan contribution that we have experienced. Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our "adjusted earnings per share" as an indicator of our ongoing operating performance.
 
"Free cash flow," "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt and fund share repurchases that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities. A portion of the free cash flow that the Company generates in 2005 is expected to be spent on mandatory debt service requirements or other non-discretionary expenditures. Our estimate of free cash flow for 2005 (without giving effect to any voluntary employee buyouts and the closure of the Texas stores) is used by management as a baseline for estimating our 2005 free cash flow. Management is unable to estimate the effect that any voluntary employee buyouts and the closure of the Texas stores will have on free cash flow for 2005, and therefore is not able to provide any reconciliation of any amounts set forth herein with respect to any voluntary employee buyouts and the closure of the Texas stores.
 
Management believes that adjusted operating and administrative expense as a percentage of sales provides a useful financial measure that will facilitate comparisons of our adjusted operating and administrative expense before, during and after the unusual or unpredictable expenses are incurred, as well as facilitate comparisons of our performance with that of other companies that might not have the non-cash charges, employee buyout, stock option expense and health and welfare plan contribution that we have experienced. Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view "operating and administrative expense as a percentage of sales" as an indicator of our ongoing operating performance.
 
Our estimate of earnings per share for 2005 (without giving effect to any voluntary employee buyouts and the closure of the Texas stores) is used by management as a baseline for estimating our 2005 net income per share (EPS). Management is unable to estimate the effect that any voluntary employee buyouts and the closure of the Texas stores will have on EPS for 2005, and therefore is not able to provide any reconciliation of any amounts set forth herein with respect to the effect of any voluntary employee buyouts and the closure of the Texas stores.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on Safeway's Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the periods indicated as a measure of liquidity. These measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in
 
isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate "free cash flow," "Adjusted EBITDA" and "Adjusted Debt" differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
 
Additional limitations include:
 
 
 
 
 
Because of these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
Contacts: Melissa Plaisance (925) 467-3136
Julie Hong (925) 467-3832
 
Pleasanton, CA October 18, 2005
 
Results From Operations
 
Safeway Inc. today reported net income of $122.5 million ($0.27 per diluted share) for the third quarter ended September 10, 2005. Safeway's results were reduced $0.08 per diluted share due to an impairment charge in Texas and $0.03 per diluted share for an employee buyout charge in Northern California.
 
Net income was $159.2 million ($0.35 per diluted share) for the third quarter of 2004. Net income was reduced by $0.03 per diluted share for contributions to two Northern California UFCW multi-employer health and welfare plans.
 
The resolution of various tax issues increased net income by $0.06 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2005 and $0.07 per diluted share in 2004.
 
In 2005, Safeway early adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004), which requires that stock options be expensed. The non-cash expense for stock options was $14.6 million, pre-tax ($0.02 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2005.
Share-Based Payment,
 
Sales and Other Revenue
 
Sales and other revenue increased 7.2% to $8.9 billion in the third quarter of 2005 from $8.3 billion in the third quarter of 2004. Increased fuel sales, Safeway's marketing strategy and Lifestyle store execution drove this sales increase.
Comparable store sales increased 5.7% and identical store sales (which exclude replacement stores) increased 5.4% for the third quarter of 2005. Excluding the effect of fuel sales, identical store sales increased 3.4%.
 
"We are pleased with the progress we made this quarter on several fronts," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO. "Our identical store sales are the strongest they have been in over four years, we gained U.S. market share in 35 of the last 36 weeks, operating and administrative expense as a percentage of sales declined significantly in the quarter, and our capital investments and Lifestyle stores continue to exceed expectations."
 
"During the quarter, we also initiated a strategic solution to improve our operations in Texas, made significant progress on the labor front with a tentative agreement with the UFCW in Chicago, and completed an employee buyout in the Bay Area," added Burd. "In addition, we have decided to utilize a lower tax rate under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 to repatriate funds from Canada, allowing us to pay down debt in the United States in the near term. In short, we have been busy and are satisfied with the results."
 
Texas Strategy
 
Safeway plans to revitalize the Texas division through a strategy which includes the closure of 26 under-performing stores, a focused Lifestyle remodel program and the introduction of proprietary products. Safeway incurred a $54.7 million pre-tax impairment charge ($0.08 per diluted share) on these stores in the third quarter of 2005 and expects to incur a charge of approximately $59 million, pre-tax ($0.08 per diluted share) for store exit activities in the fourth quarter of 2005. The impact of closing these stores is expected to be cash neutral in 2005.
 
Energy Costs
 
Fuel and energy prices increased significantly over last year. Safeway avoided a portion of this increase with the use of fixed price natural gas and electricity contracts. However, the net impact of higher fuel and natural gas prices increased store utility costs, store supply costs and distribution costs. It also lowered operating profit from fuel stations. Safeway estimates that higher energy costs reduced net income by approximately $23 million, pre-tax ($0.03 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2005.
 
Gross Profit
 
Primarily because of fuel sales, which have a lower gross margin, gross profit declined 98 basis points to 28.58% of sales in the third quarter of 2005 compared to 29.56% in the third quarter of 2004. Fuel sales reduced gross profit margin by 65 basis points. The remaining 33 basis point decline is largely the result of the grand opening of 79 Lifestyle stores, increased advertising expenses, investments in price and higher energy costs.
 
Operating and Administrative Expense
 
Operating and administrative expense declined to 25.90% of sales in the third quarter of 2005 compared to 26.03% in 2004.
 
Operating and administrative expense in 2005 included a $54.7 million pre-tax Texas impairment charge, a $21.9 million pre-tax employee buyout charge and a $14.6 million pre-tax expense for stock options. Operating and administrative expense in 2004 includes a pre-tax $19.7 million health and welfare contribution. Excluding these items operating and administrative expense improved 91 basis points. This improvement is primarily due to restructured labor agreements, increased sales from fuel and reduced workers' compensation costs, partly offset by labor costs associated with the grand opening of Lifestyle stores and higher energy costs.
 
Interest Expense
 
Interest expense was $93.5 million in the third quarter of 2005, down slightly from $96.5 million in the third quarter of 2004. This decline was due to a $648 million reduction in average indebtedness offset by an increase in average interest expense from 5.79% to 6.16%.
 
Income Tax Expense
 
Income tax expense was $29.4 million, or 19.4% of pretax income, in the third quarter of 2005 compared to 21.1% in the third quarter of 2004.
 
In the third quarter of 2005, the company finalized its plan to repatriate $500 million of earnings from its Canadian subsidiary to the U.S., to take advantage of the lower effective tax rate allowed by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The Canadian subsidiary will fund approximately half of the repatriated earnings with cash on hand and the remainder with borrowings. The U.S. parent company will use the repatriated earnings to pay down debt in the near term.
 
Deferred taxes previously provided on Canadian earnings to be repatriated exceeded the tax costs to repatriate the earnings and resulted in a net reduction of $17 million in income tax expense in the third quarter of 2005. In addition, Safeway's effective tax rate was lower due to the favorable resolution of various tax issues totaling $10.0 million in the third quarter of 2005. The total benefit of these tax items was $0.06 per diluted share.
 
The total benefit from the resolution of various tax issues in the third quarter of 2004 was $32.4 million ($0.07 per diluted share).
 
36-Week Results
 
Net income for the first 36 weeks of 2005 was $387.7 million ($0.86 per diluted share) compared to $357.6 million ($0.80 per diluted share) in the first 36 weeks of 2004. The gross profit margin was 28.84% in 2005 compared to 29.63% in 2004. Operating and administrative expense was 25.67% of sales in 2005 compared to 26.49% of sales in 2004.
 
Capital Expenditures
 
Safeway invested $856 million in capital expenditures in the first 36 weeks of 2005. The company opened 13 new Lifestyle stores and completed 156 Lifestyle remodels. For the year, the company expects to spend approximately $1.5 billion in capital expenditures and open approximately 25 new Lifestyle stores and complete approximately 290 to 295 Lifestyle remodels. By year-end 2005, approximately 26% of Safeway's store base will be in the Lifestyle format.
 
Cash Flow
 
Net cash flow from operating activities was $1,287.4 million in the first 36 weeks of 2005 compared to $1,526.0 million in the first 36 weeks of 2004. This change was primarily because of higher income tax payments in 2005 and lower prepaid expense in 2004.
 
Net cash flow used by investing activities, which consists principally of cash paid for property additions, was $835.7 million for the first 36 weeks of 2005 compared to $646.6 million in 2004.
 
Financing activities, which consist primarily of cash used to pay down debt, used cash flow of $386.9 million in the first 36 weeks of 2005 compared to $577.2 million in 2004.
 
Free cash flow was $451.7 million in the first 36 weeks of 2005. As a result, total debt declined $364.5 million and cash and equivalents increased $68.7 million.
 
Quarterly Dividend
 
On September 28, 2005, Safeway paid a dividend of $0.05 per common share to shareholders of record as of September 7, 2005. The payout totaled $22.5 million.
 
Guidance
 
Safeway expects 2005 identical store sales (excluding fuel and excluding Vons for the first quarter of 2005) to be at the top end of the previously provided range of 2.5% to 2.8%. The company is comfortable with current analyst consensus earnings estimates of $1.44 per diluted share for 2005 (excluding any voluntary employee buyouts and the closure of Texas stores) as posted by Thomson First Call.
 
Free cash flow is expected to be in the $500 million to $600 million range (excluding any voluntary employee buyouts and the closure of Texas stores) for the year.
 
About Safeway
 
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 50 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,800 stores in the United States and Canada and had annual sales of $35.8 billion in 2004. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
 
Safeway Conference Call
 
Safeway's investor conference call discussing third-quarter results will be broadcast live over the Internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 AM PDT October 18, 2005. Click on Webcast Events to access the live call. An on-demand webcast of the conference call will also be available for approximately one week following the live call.
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements relate to, among other things, estimates of diluted earnings per share, identical store sales, comparable store sales, dividend payments, capital expenditures, free cash flow, and effects of restructuring labor contracts and are indicated by words or phrases such as "guidance," "expects," "estimate," "forecast" and similar words or phrases. These statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, including general business and economic conditions, competitive factors, currency valuations, results of our programs to reduce costs, increase sales and improve capital management, achievement of operating improvements in companies that we acquire, labor costs, labor disputes that may arise from time to time, and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions or are scheduled to expire in the near future, voluntary employee buyouts, unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition, real estate matters, including dispositions and impairments, or business over time, performance in new business ventures, or unfavorable legislative, regulatory, tax or judicial developments, that could cause actual events and results to vary significantly from those included in or contemplated by such statements. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. Please refer to our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Annual Report to Stockholders in our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP NET INCOME TO ADJUSTED INCOME AND ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
 
TABLE 2: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP CASH FLOW MEASURE TO FREE CASH FLOW
 
 
TABLE 3: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER STATISTICAL DATA
 
 
 
TABLE 4: RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
 
TABLE 5: RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
 
 
TABLE 6: SAME STORE SALES INCREASES
 
 
TABLE 7: RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE AS A PERCENTAGE OF SALES
 
 


