FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20060427090656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On April 27, 2006, we issued our first quarter earnings press release. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
 -  "free cash flow" which is calculated as net cash flow from operating activities less net cash flow used by investing activities and, with respect to the forecasted range for 2006, excludes proceeds from the favorable income tax settlement reported in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 10, 2006.
 -  "Adjusted EBITDA" which is defined by our bank credit agreement as EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization), excluding the following:
 
 
 
 
 -  "Adjusted Debt" which is defined by our bank credit agreement as total debt less cash and equivalents in excess of $75.0 million.
 -  "Adjusted EBITDA as a multiple of interest expense" which is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by interest expense.
 -  "Adjusted Debt to Adjusted EBITDA" which is calculated by dividing Adjusted Debt by Adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations of "free cash flow" to GAAP cash flow for 2006 and 2005 are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures  net income and net cash flow from operating activities  also are provided in the press release. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures provides information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
 
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the enumerated non-cash items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, methodologies in calculating LIFO expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that such store makes to operating performance.
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate "Adjusted EBITDA" as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
"Free cash flow," "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt and fund share repurchases that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities. A portion of the free cash flow that the Company generates in 2006 is expected to be spent on mandatory debt service requirements or other non-discretionary expenditures.
Management is unable to estimate the effect that the above-referenced favorable income tax settlement will have on guidance for 2006 of free cash flow and earnings per diluted share, and therefore is not able to provide reconciliations of those guidance measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on Safeway's Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the periods indicated as a measure of liquidity. These measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate "free cash flow," "Adjusted EBITDA" and "Adjusted Debt" differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
 
Additional limitations include:
 -  "Adjusted EBITDA" does not reflect our cash expenditures for capital expenditures;
 -  "Adjusted EBITDA" does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our debts;
 -  "Adjusted EBITDA" does not reflect cash requirements for income taxes paid; and
 -  Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and "Adjusted EBITDA" does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements.
Because of these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1     Press Release dated April 27, 2006 of Safeway Inc.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts: Melissa Plaisance (925) 467-3136
Julie Hong (925) 467-3832
Pleasanton, CA  April 27, 2006
Results From Operations
Safeway Inc. today reported net income of $142.9 million ($0.32 per diluted share) for the first quarter ended March 25, 2006 compared to $131.3 million ($0.29 per diluted share) for the first quarter of 2005.
Sales and Other Revenue
Total sales and other revenue increased 3.2% to $8.9 billion in the first quarter of 2006 compared to $8.6 billion in the first quarter of 2005, despite the fact that Easter holiday sales occurred in the first quarter of 2005 but did not occur until the second quarter of 2006. Identical-store sales increased 2.7% for the first quarter of 2006. Excluding the effect of fuel sales, identical-store sales increased 1.5%.
"We are pleased with our results this quarter," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO. "As expected, the momentum we built in 2005 has continued into the first quarter of 2006. Taking into account the timing of the New Year's and Easter holidays, our identical-store sales increase of 1.5% is consistent with our guidance of 3% for the year. We also produced double-digit earnings growth while absorbing a number of significant cost increases."
Gross Profit
Gross profit increased to $2.6 billion in the first quarter of 2006 from $2.5 billion in the first quarter of 2005. Gross profit margin declined 12 basis points to 29.10% of sales in the first quarter of 2006 compared to 29.22% in the first quarter of 2005. Higher fuel sales (which have a lower gross margin) reduced gross profit by 30 basis points. The remaining net increase in gross profit margin of 18 basis points is due primarily to reduced shrink, partially offset by investments in pricing, higher advertising and higher energy costs.
Operating and Administrative Expense
Operating and administrative expense declined 27 basis points to 25.53% of sales in the first quarter of 2006 from 25.80% in the first quarter of 2005. This decline is primarily due to increased sales and lower employee costs, partly offset by higher energy costs and employee buyouts.
Interest Expense
Interest expense increased slightly to $93.0 million in the first quarter of 2006 compared to $90.3 million in the first quarter of 2005 due to higher average interest rates, partly offset by lower indebtedness.
Income Tax Expense
Income tax expense was $89.5 million, or 38.5% of pretax income, in the first quarter of 2006.
As previously announced, Safeway settled a federal income tax refund claim under which Safeway expects to receive approximately $316 million in cash in the second half of 2006. This settlement was not reached until after March 25, 2006 and, therefore, is not reflected in these first-quarter 2006 financial statements.
The expected federal tax refund of approximately $259 million will be recorded in the second quarter of 2006 as an increase to additional paid-in capital and will not be recorded in the income statement.
As of April 26, 2006, accrued interest on the federal tax refund, net of income tax, is approximately $57 million ($0.13 per diluted share). Accrued interest will be recorded in the second quarter of 2006 as a reduction of Safeway's income tax expense. The final interest amount depends on the date of receipt of the cash.
Capital Expenditures
Safeway invested $413.5 million in capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2006. The company opened one new Lifestyle store and completed 24 Lifestyle remodels. For the year, the company expects to spend approximately $1.6 billion in capital expenditures, open approximately 20 to 25 new Lifestyle stores and complete approximately 280 Lifestyle remodels.
Cash Flow
Net cash flow from operating activities declined to $128.6 million in the first quarter of 2006 from $238.4 million in the first quarter of 2005 because of a decline in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Accounts payable was a larger use of cash in the first quarter of 2006 compared to 2005.
Net cash flow used by investing activities, which consists principally of cash paid for property additions, was $414.7 million for the first quarter of 2006 compared to $204.9 million in 2005. The costs of the large number of Lifestyle projects completed late in the fourth quarter of 2005 were paid for in the first quarter of 2006. In addition, the company had higher purchases of land and buildings in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Financing activities provided net cash flow of $24.1 million in the first quarter of 2006 and $26.1 million in the first quarter of 2005.
Guidance
Safeway confirmed guidance for 2006 of $1.55 to $1.65 earnings per diluted share and $400 million to $600 million of free cash flow, both including any employee buyouts but excluding the impact of the recently announced favorable tax settlement. The company continues to expect non-fuel identical-store sales to grow 3% for the year.
Quarterly Dividend
On April 21, 2006 Safeway paid a dividend of $0.05 per common share to stockholders of record as of March 31, 2006. The payout was $22.5 million.
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 50 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,772 stores in the United States and Canada and had annual sales of $38.4 billion in 2005. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
Safeway Conference Call
Safeway's investor conference call discussing first-quarter results will be broadcast live over the Internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 AM PDT April 27, 2006. Click on Webcast Events to access the live call. An on-demand webcast of the conference call will also be available for approximately one week following the live call.
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements relate to, among other things, estimates of diluted earnings per share, stock option expense, identical- store sales, comparable-store sales, capital expenditures, free cash flow, effects of restructuring labor contracts, Lifestyle stores, and the amount and timing of the receipt of federal income tax refunds and the interest thereon, and are indicated by words or phrases such as "guidance," "on-going," "expects," "estimate," and similar words or phrases. These statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, including general business and economic conditions, competitive factors, currency valuations, results of our programs to reduce costs, increase sales and improve capital management, achievement of operating improvements in companies that we acquire, labor costs, labor disputes that may arise from time to time and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions or are scheduled to expire in the near future, unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition, real estate matters, including dispositions and impairments, or business over time, performance in new
 
business ventures, or unfavorable legislative, regulatory, tax or judicial developments, that could cause actual events and results to vary significantly from those included in or contemplated by such statements. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. Please refer to our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Annual Report to Stockholders on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER STATISTICAL DATA
 
TABLE 2: RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
 
TABLE 3: RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
TABLE 4: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP CASH FLOW MEASURE TO FREE CASH FLOW
 
TABLE 5: SAME-STORE SALES INCREASES
 
 


