FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20070518125102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02.    Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective May 16, 2007, the 2002 Equity Incentive Plan of Safeway Inc. was terminated. No awards had been granted under this plan.
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 27, 2007, the Board of Directors of Safeway Inc. approved the 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the "2007 Plan"), subject to the approval of our stockholders. On May 16, 2007, the stockholders approved the 2007 Plan. For a description of the 2007 Plan, please see "Proposal 2, Approval of Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan" in Safeway's definitive proxy statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 4, 2007. The 2007 Plan and the forms of award agreements under the 2007 Plan are attached as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Also on March 27, 2007, the Board of Directors approved the Amended and Restated Capital Performance Bonus Plan for Executive Officers and Key Employees of Safeway Inc. (the "Capital Bonus Plan"), subject to the approval of our stockholders. On May 16, 2007, the stockholders approved the Capital Bonus Plan. For a description of the Capital Bonus Plan, please see "Proposal 3, Approval of Amended and Restated Capital Performance Bonus Plan for Executive Officers and Key Employees of Safeway Inc." in Safeway's definitive proxy statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 4, 2007. The Capital Bonus Plan is attached as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Management contract, or compensatory plan or arrangement
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit
No.
 
 
 
 
 
*Management contract, or compensatory plan or arrangement
 

Exhibit 10(iii).28
Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), by resolution of its Board of Directors, hereby adopts the Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the ""). The Plan will become effective upon the approval of the Company's stockholders (the "").
Company
Plan
Effective Date
The purpose of the Plan is to promote the success and enhance the value of the Company by linking the personal interests of the members of the Board, Employees, and Consultants to those of the Company's stockholders and by providing such individuals with an incentive for outstanding performance to generate superior returns to the Company's stockholders. The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of members of the Board, Employees, and Consultants upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent.
Wherever the following terms are used in the Plan they shall have the meanings specified below, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The singular pronoun shall include the plural where the context so indicates.
1.1. "" shall mean the entity that conducts the general administration of the Plan as provided in Article X. With reference to the duties of the Committee under the Plan which have been delegated to one or more persons pursuant to Section 10.5, the term "Administrator" shall refer to such person(s) unless the Committee has revoked such delegation.
Administrator
1.2. "" shall mean an Option, a Restricted Stock Award, a Restricted Stock Unit Award, a Performance Award, a Dividend Equivalents Award, a Deferred Stock Award, a Stock Payment Award or a Stock Appreciation Right, which may be awarded or granted under the Plan (collectively, "").
Award
Awards
1.3. "" shall mean a written agreement executed by an authorized officer of the Company and the Holder which shall contain such terms and conditions with respect to an Award as the Administrator shall determine, consistent with the Plan.
Award Agreement
1.4. "" shall mean 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock for grants to any executive officer of the Company in any calendar year or to any Employee (other than an executive officer of the Company) in the calendar year of his or her hiring, 800,000 shares of Common Stock for grants to any Employee (other than an executive officer of the Company) in any calendar year following his or her hiring and 800,000 shares of Common Stock for grants to any Consultant in any calendar year, in each case as adjusted pursuant to Section 11.3; , that each share of Common Stock subject to an Award shall be counted as one share against the Award Limit. Solely with respect to Performance Awards granted pursuant to Section 8.2(b) and payable solely in cash, "Award Limit" shall mean $5,000,000.
Award Limit
provided, however
1.5. "" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
1.6. "" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following transactions or events occurring on or after the Effective Date:
Change in Control
(a) any "person" (as defined below) or "group" (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder), together with all affiliates of such person or group, shall become the "beneficial owner" (as determined pursuant to Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors ("") of the Company that represent 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities, other than an Exempt Person; , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not occur under this subsection (a) by reason of a person or group (together with the affiliates thereof) becoming the beneficial owner of 25% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the Company solely as a result of an acquisition of voting securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of voting securities outstanding, increases the proportionate number of voting securities beneficially owned by such person or group (together with the affiliates thereof) to 25% or more of the voting securities of the Company then outstanding; and, , that if a person or group (together with the affiliates thereof) shall become the beneficial owner of 25% or more of the voting securities of the Company then outstanding solely as a result of an acquisition of voting securities by the Company and shall, after such acquisition by the Company, become the beneficial owner of additional voting securities of the Company (other than pursuant to a dividend or distribution paid or made by the Company in voting securities or pursuant to a split or subdivision of the outstanding voting securities), then a Change in Control shall occur under this subsection (a) unless, upon becoming the beneficial owner of such additional voting securities, such person or group (together with the affiliates thereof) does not beneficially own 25% or more of the voting securities then outstanding;
voting securities
provided, however
provided, further
(b) during any 12-month period beginning on or after the Effective Date, individuals who, at the beginning of such period, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; that any individual becoming a director during such 12-month period whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board;
Incumbent Board
provided, however,
(c) the consummation by the Company (whether directly involving the Company or indirectly involving the Company through one or more intermediaries) of: (x) a merger, consolidation, reorganization, or business combination or (y) a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's assets in any single transaction or series of related transactions or (z) the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity, in each case, if, as a result of the transaction, the Company's voting securities outstanding immediately before the transaction (or the securities into which such voting securities are converted as a result of the transaction) fail to represent, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power
 
of the outstanding voting securities of the Company (or the person that, as a result of the transaction, controls, directly or indirectly, the Company or owns, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all of the Company's assets or otherwise succeeds to the business of the Company (the Company or such person, the "")) immediately after the transaction; and
Successor Entity
(d) the Company's stockholders approve a liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
For purposes of subsection (a) above, the calculation of voting power shall be made as if the date on which the ownership of such person or group is measured were a record date for a vote of the Company's stockholders, and for purposes of subsection (c) above, the calculation of voting power shall be made as if the date of the consummation of the transaction were a record date for a vote of the Company's stockholders. For all purposes of this Plan, any calculation of the number of securities outstanding at any particular time, including for purposes of determining the particular percentage of such outstanding voting securities of which any person or group is the beneficial owner, shall be made in accordance with the last sentence of Rule 13d-3(d)(1)(i) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act. For purposes of this definition of "Change in Control," "person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization, association or other entity.
1.7. "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
1.8. "" shall mean the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board, or another committee or subcommittee of the Board, appointed as provided in Section 10.1.
Committee
1.9. "" shall mean the common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share.
Common Stock
1.10. "" shall mean Safeway Inc. a Delaware corporation.
Company
,
1.11. "" shall mean any consultant or adviser if: (a) the consultant or adviser is a natural person, (b) the consultant or adviser renders bona fide services to the Company or any Subsidiary; and (c) the services rendered by the consultant or adviser are not in connection with the offer or sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction and do not directly or indirectly promote or maintain a market for the Company's securities.
Consultant
1.12. "" shall mean any Employee who is, or could be, a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Covered Employee
1.13. "" shall mean a right to receive Common Stock awarded under Section 8.5 of the Plan.
Deferred Stock
1.14. "" shall mean a member of the Board.
Director
 
1.15. "" shall mean a right to receive the equivalent value (in cash or Common Stock) of dividends paid on Common Stock, awarded under Section 8.3 of the Plan.
Dividend Equivalent
1.16. "" shall mean a domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, or the rules thereunder.
DRO
1.17. "" shall mean the date the Plan is approved by the Company's stockholders.
Effective Date
1.18. "" shall mean any officer or other employee (as defined in accordance with Section 3401(c) of the Code) of the Company, or of any Subsidiary.
Employee
1.19. "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
1.20. "" shall mean any of the following:
Exempt Person
(a) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any person controlled by the Company or by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any person controlled by the Company,
(b) the Company or a Subsidiary, and
(c) a person that is owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their beneficial ownership of the voting securities of the Company.
No person who is an officer, director or employee of an Exempt Person shall be deemed, solely by reason of such person's status or authority as such, to be the beneficial owner of any securities that are beneficially owned, including, without limitation, in a fiduciary capacity, by an Exempt Person or by any other such officer, director or employee of an Exempt Person.
1.21. "" means, as of any date:, the value of a share of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
(a) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange (such as the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Global Market and the NASDAQ Global Select Market) or any national market system, including without limitation any market system of The NASDAQ Stock Market, the value of a share of Common Stock shall be the closing sales price for a share of Common Stock as quoted on such exchange or system for such date, or if there is no closing sales price for a share of Common Stock on the date in question, the closing sales price for a share of Common Stock on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists, as reported in or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable;
The Wall Street Journal
 
(b) If the Common Stock is regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer but closing sales prices are not reported, the value of a share of Common Stock shall be the mean of the high bid and low asked prices for such date or, if there are no high bid and low asked prices for a share of Common Stock on the date in question, the high bid and low asked prices for a share of Common Stock on the last preceding date for which such information exists, as reported in or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable; or
The Wall Street Journal
(c) If the Common Stock is neither listed on an established stock exchange or a national market system nor regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer, the value of a share of Common Stock shall be established by the Administrator in good faith.
1.22. "" means the United States Food and Drug Administration.
FDA
1.23. "" means the fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
1.24. "" means any Award other than an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right.
Full Value Award
1.25. "" shall mean a person who has been granted an Award.
Holder
1.26. "" shall mean an option which conforms to the applicable provisions of Section 422 of the Code and which is designated as an Incentive Stock Option by the Administrator.
Incentive Stock Option
1.27. "" shall mean a member of the Board who is not an Employee.
Non-Employee Director
1.28. "" shall mean an Option which is not designated as an Incentive Stock Option by the Administrator.
Non-Qualified Stock Option
1.29. "" shall mean a stock option granted under Article IV of the Plan. An Option granted under the Plan shall, as determined by the Administrator, be either a Non-Qualified Stock Option or an Incentive Stock Option; , that Options granted to Non-Employee Directors and Consultants shall be Non-Qualified Stock Options.
Option
provided, however
1.30. "" shall mean a cash bonus, stock bonus or other performance or incentive award that is paid in cash, Common Stock or a combination of both, awarded under Section 8.2 of the Plan.
Performance Award
1.31. "" means the criteria (and adjustments) that the Committee selects for an Award for purposes of establishing the Performance Goal or Performance Goals for a Performance Period, determined as follows:
Performance Criteria
(a) The Performance Criteria that shall be used to establish Performance Goals are limited to the following: (i) net earnings (either before or after (A) interest, (B) taxes, (C) depreciation and (D) amortization), (ii) gross or net sales or revenue, (iii) net income (either before or after taxes), (iv) operating profit, (v) cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating
 
cash flow and free cash flow), (vi) return on assets, (vii) return on capital, (viii) return on stockholders' equity, (ix) return on sales, (x) gross or net profit or operating margin, (xi) costs, (xii) funds from operations, (xiii) expense, (xiv) working capital, (xv) earnings per share, and (xvi) price per share of Common Stock, (xvii) FDA or other regulatory body approval for commercialization of a product, (xviii) market share, (xix) identical store sales, and (xx) identical store sales excluding fuel, any of which may be measured either in absolute terms or as compared to any incremental increase or decrease or as compared to results of a peer group.
(b) The Committee may, in its discretion, at the time of grant, specify in the Award that one or more objectively determinable adjustments shall be made to one or more of the Performance Goals. Such adjustments may include one or more of the following: (i) items related to a change in accounting principle; (ii) items relating to financing activities; (iii) expenses for restructuring or productivity initiatives; (iv) other non-operating items; (v) items related to acquisitions; (vi) items attributable to the business operations of any entity acquired by the Company during the Performance Period; (vii) items related to the disposal of a business or segment of a business; or (viii) items related to discontinued operations that do not qualify as a segment of a business under United States generally accepted accounting principles ("").
GAAP
1.32. "" means, for a Performance Period, one or more goals established in writing by the Committee for the Performance Period based upon one or more Performance Criteria. Depending on the Performance Criteria used to establish such Performance Goals, the Performance Goals may be expressed in terms of overall Company performance or the performance of a division, business unit, or an individual. The achievement of each Performance Goal shall be determined in accordance with GAAP to the extent applicable.
Performance Goals
1.33. "" means one or more periods of time, which may be of varying and overlapping durations, as the Committee may select, over which the attainment of one or more Performance Goals will be measured for the purpose of determining a Holder's right to, and the payment of, a Performance Award.
Performance Period
1.34. "" shall mean the Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan
1.35. "" shall mean a stock option, restricted stock or other stock award granted under any Prior Plan.
Prior Award
1.36. "" shall mean the 1999 Amended and Restated Equity Participation Plan of Safeway Inc., as amended from time to time.
Prior Plan
1.37. "" shall mean Common Stock awarded under Article VII of the Plan that is subject to repurchase or forfeiture.
Restricted Stock
1.38. "" shall mean rights to receive Common Stock awarded under Section 8.6.
Restricted Stock Units
 
1.39. "" shall mean Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time.
Rule 16b-3
1.40. "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
Securities Act
1.41. "" shall mean a stock appreciation right granted under Article IX of the Plan.
Stock Appreciation Right
1.42. "" shall mean: (a) a payment in the form of shares of Common Stock, or (b) an option or other right to purchase shares of Common Stock, as part of a deferred compensation arrangement, made in lieu of all or any portion of the compensation, including without limitation, salary, bonuses, commissions and directors' fees, that would otherwise become payable to a Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director in cash, awarded under Article VIII of the Plan.
Stock Payment
1.43. "" means any entity (other than the Company), whether domestic or foreign, in an unbroken chain of entities beginning with the Company if each of the entities other than the last entity in the unbroken chain beneficially owns, at the time of the determination, securities or interests representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of securities or interests in one of the other entities in such chain.
Subsidiary
1.44. "" shall mean any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain then owns stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary Corporation
1.45. "" shall mean an Option granted under this Plan upon the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding equity awards previously granted by a company or other entity in connection with a corporate transaction, such as a merger, combination, consolidation or acquisition of property or stock; , that in no event shall the term "Substitute Award" be construed to refer to an award made in connection with the cancellation and repricing of an Option.
Substitute Award
provided, however
1.46. "" shall mean the time when the engagement of a Holder as a Consultant to the Company or a Subsidiary is terminated for any reason, with or without cause, including, without limitation, by resignation, discharge, death or retirement, but excluding terminations where there is a simultaneous commencement of employment or service with the Company or any Subsidiary. The Administrator, in its discretion, shall determine the effect of all matters and questions relating to Termination of Consultancy, including, without limitation, the question of whether a Termination of Consultancy resulted from a discharge for cause. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company or any Subsidiary has an absolute and unrestricted right to terminate a Consultant's service at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in writing. For purposes of the Plan, the engagement of a Holder as a Consultant to a Subsidiary shall be deemed to be terminated in the event that the Subsidiary engaging such Holder ceases to remain a Subsidiary following any merger, sale of stock or other corporate transaction or event (including, without limitation, a spin-off).
Termination of Consultancy
 
1.47. "" shall mean the time when a Holder who is a Non-Employee Director ceases to be a Director for any reason, including, without limitation, a termination by resignation, failure to be elected, death or retirement. The Administrator, in its discretion, shall determine the effect of all matters and questions relating to Termination of Directorship with respect to Non-Employee Directors.
Termination of Directorship
1.48. "" shall mean the time when the employee-employer relationship between a Holder and the Company or any Subsidiary is terminated for any reason, with or without cause, including, without limitation, a termination by resignation, discharge, death, disability or retirement; but excluding: (a) terminations where there is a simultaneous reemployment or continuing employment of a Holder by the Company or any Subsidiary, and (b) terminations which are followed by the simultaneous establishment of a consulting relationship by the Company or a Subsidiary with the former employee. The Administrator, in its discretion, shall determine the effect of all matters and questions relating to Termination of Employment, including, without limitation, the question of whether a Termination of Employment resulted from a discharge for cause; , that, with respect to Incentive Stock Options, unless the Administrator otherwise provides in the terms of the Award Agreement or otherwise, a leave of absence, change in status from an employee to an independent contractor or other change in the employee-employer relationship shall constitute a Termination of Employment if, and to the extent that, such leave of absence, change in status or other change interrupts employment for the purposes of Section 422(a)(2) of the Code and the then applicable regulations and revenue rulings under said Section. For purposes of the Plan, a Holder's employee-employer relationship shall be deemed to be terminated in the event that the Subsidiary employing such Holder ceases to remain a Subsidiary following any merger, sale of stock or other corporate transaction or event (including, without limitation, a spin-off).
Termination of Employment
provided, however
2.1. .
Shares Subject to Plan
(a) Subject to Section 11.3 and Section 2.1(b), the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued or transferred pursuant to Awards under the Plan initially shall be equal to the sum of (i) 22,000,000 shares and (ii) the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which as of the Effective Date are available for future awards under the Prior Plan (collectively, the ""). In addition, in the event of any cancellation, termination, expiration or forfeiture of any Prior Award during the term of the Plan (including any unvested shares of Common Stock that are forfeited by the holder or repurchased by the Company pursuant to the terms of the applicable award agreement at a price not greater than the original purchase price paid by the holder), the number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued or transferred pursuant to Awards under the Plan shall be automatically increased by one share for each share subject to such Prior Award that is so cancelled, terminated, expired, forfeited or repurchased (collectively, the ""). The aggregate
Initial Authorized Shares
Cancelled Prior Award Shares
 
number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan pursuant to this Section 2.1 shall be reduced by 2.5 shares for each share of Common Stock delivered in settlement of any Full Value Award. In no event, however, shall the aggregate number of Initial Authorized Shares and Cancelled Prior Award Shares made available for issuance under the Plan exceed 29,000,000.
(b) To the extent that an Award terminates, expires, lapses or is forfeited for any reason, any shares of Common Stock then subject to such Award shall again be available for the grant of an Award pursuant to the Plan; , that the number of shares that shall again be available for the grant of an Award pursuant to the Plan shall be increased by 2.5 shares for each share of Common Stock subject to a Full Value Award at the time such Full Value Award terminates, expires, lapses or is forfeited for any reason. To the extent permitted by applicable law or any exchange rule, shares of Common Stock issued in assumption of, or in substitution for, any outstanding awards of any entity acquired in any form of combination by the Company or any Subsidiary shall not be counted against shares of Common Stock available for grant pursuant to this Plan. If any shares of Restricted Stock are surrendered by the Holder or repurchased by the Company pursuant to Section 7.4 or 7.5 hereof, such shares may again be granted or awarded hereunder, subject to the limitations of Section 2.1(a). To the extent exercised, the full number of shares subject to an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be counted for purposes of calculating the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan as set forth in Section 2.1(a) and for purposes of calculating the share limitation set forth in Section 2.3, regardless of the actual number of shares issued or transferred upon any net exercise of an Option (in which Common Stock is withheld to satisfy the exercise price or taxes) or upon exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right for Common Stock or cash. The payment of Dividend Equivalents in cash in conjunction with any outstanding Awards shall not be counted against the shares available for issuance under the Plan. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 2.1(b), no shares of Common Stock may again be optioned, granted or awarded if such action would cause an Incentive Stock Option to fail to qualify as an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code.
provided, however
2.2. . Any Common Stock distributed pursuant to an Award shall consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Common Stock, shares of Common Stock held in treasury or shares of Common Stock purchased on the open market.
Stock Distributed
2.3. . Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, and subject to Article XI, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock with respect to one or more Awards that may be granted to any one Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director during any calendar year shall not exceed the Award Limit. To the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code, shares subject to Awards which are canceled shall continue to be counted against the Award Limit.
Limitation on Number of Shares Subject to Awards
3.1. . Each Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Awards intended to qualify as performance-based
Award Agreement
 
compensation (as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code) shall contain such terms and conditions as may be necessary to meet the applicable provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code. Award Agreements evidencing Incentive Stock Options shall contain such terms and conditions as may be necessary to meet the applicable provisions of Section 422 of the Code.
3.2. .
Provisions Applicable to Covered Employees
(a) The Committee, in its discretion, may determine whether an Award is to qualify as performance-based compensation (as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code).
(b) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may grant any Award to a Covered Employee, including Restricted Stock the restrictions with respect to which lapse upon the attainment of specified Performance Goals and any performance or incentive award described in Article VIII that vests or becomes exercisable or payable upon the attainment of one or more specified Performance Goals.
(c) To the extent necessary to comply with the performance-based compensation requirements of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, with respect to any Award granted under Articles VII and VIII which may be granted to one or more Covered Employees, no later than ninety (90) days following the commencement of any Fiscal Year in question or any other designated fiscal period or period of service (or such earlier time as may be required under Section 162(m) of the Code), the Committee shall, in writing, (i) designate one or more Covered Employees, (ii) select the Performance Criteria applicable to the Fiscal Year or other designated fiscal period or period of service (including any applicable adjustments), (iii) establish the various performance targets, in terms of an objective formula or standard, and amounts of such Awards, as applicable, which may be earned for such Fiscal Year or other designated fiscal period or period of service, and (iv) specify the relationship between Performance Criteria and the performance targets and the amounts of such Awards, as applicable, to be earned by each Covered Employee for such Fiscal Year or other designated fiscal period or period of service. Following the completion of each Fiscal Year or other designated fiscal period or period of service, the Committee shall certify in writing whether the applicable performance targets have been achieved for such Fiscal Year or other designated fiscal period or period of service. In determining the amount earned by a Covered Employee, the Committee shall have the right to reduce (but not to increase) the amount payable at a given level of performance to take into account additional factors that the Committee may deem relevant to the assessment of individual or corporate performance for the Fiscal Year or other designated fiscal period or period of service.
(d) Furthermore, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, any Award which is granted to a Covered Employee and is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation (as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code) shall be subject to any additional limitations set forth in Section 162(m) of the Code (including any amendment to Section 162(m) of the Code) or any regulations or rulings issued thereunder that are requirements for qualification as performance-based compensation (as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code), and the Plan shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements.
 
3.3. . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Plan, and any Award granted or awarded to any individual who is then subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, shall be subject to any additional limitations set forth in any applicable exemptive rule under Section 16 of the Exchange Act (including any amendment to Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act) that are requirements for the application of such exemptive rule. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Plan and Awards granted or awarded hereunder shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such applicable exemptive rule.
Limitations Applicable to Section 16 Persons
3.4. .
Vesting Limitations
(a) Full Value Awards made under the Plan shall become vested over a period of not less than (a) three years from the grant date of the Award for all Full Value Awards that vest based solely on employment or service with the Company or one of its Subsidiaries, or (b) one year following the commencement of the Performance Period, for Full Value Awards that vest based upon the attainment of Performance Goals or other performance-based objectives; , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, an aggregate number of shares of Common Stock equal to five percent of the sum of the Initial Authorized Shares and the Cancelled Prior Award Shares may be granted subject to Full Value Awards granted under the Plan without respect to the minimum vesting provisions of this Section 3.4.
provided, however
(b) Following the grant of an Award, the Administrator, in its discretion and on whatever terms and conditions it selects, may provide that the period during which an Award vests or becomes exercisable will accelerate, in whole or in part, in connection with a change in ownership control or a Holder's Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, by reason of the Holder's retirement, death, disability or termination without cause. In addition, the Administrator may accelerate the vesting or exercisability of an aggregate number of shares of Common Stock not to exceed five percent of the sum of the Initial Authorized Shares and the Cancelled Prior Award Shares at any time and for any reason. Except as permitted under this Section 3.4(b), the Administrator shall not accelerate the vesting or exercisability of any Award after the grant date of such Award. Nothing in this Section 3.4(b) shall be construed to limit or restrict the Administrator's authority to establish the terms of an Award at the time of grant, including the events or conditions upon which the vesting or exercisability of an award may accelerate.
3.5. . Nothing in the Plan or in any Award Agreement hereunder shall confer upon any Holder any right to continue in the employ of, or as a Consultant for, the Company or any Subsidiary, or as a Director of the Company, or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company and any Subsidiary, which rights are hereby expressly reserved, to discharge any Holder at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in a written employment agreement between the Holder and the Company and any Subsidiary.
At-Will Employment
 
4.1. . Any Employee or Consultant selected by the Administrator pursuant to Section 4.4(a)(i) shall be eligible to be granted an Option. Each Non-Employee Director of the Company shall be eligible to be granted Options at the times and in the manner set forth in Section 4.5 and as provided in Section 4.6.
Eligibility
4.2. . No person may be granted an Incentive Stock Option under the Plan if such person, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any then existing Subsidiary Corporation or parent corporation (as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code) unless such Incentive Stock Option conforms to the applicable provisions of Section 422 of the Code.
Disqualification for Stock Ownership
4.3. . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to any person who is not an Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary Corporation.
Qualification of Incentive Stock Options
4.4. .
Granting of Options to Employees and Consultants
(a) The Administrator shall from time to time, in its discretion, and, subject to applicable limitations of the Plan:
(i) Select from among the Employees or Consultants (including Employees or Consultants who have previously received Awards under the Plan) such of them as in its opinion should be granted Options;
(ii) Subject to the Award Limit, determine the number of shares to be subject to such Options granted to the selected Employees or Consultants;
(iii) Subject to Section 4.2 and Section 4.3, determine whether such Options are to be Incentive Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options and whether such Options are to qualify as performance-based compensation (as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code); and
(iv) Determine the terms and conditions of such Options, consistent with the Plan; , that the terms and conditions of Options intended to qualify as performance-based compensation (as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code) shall include, but not be limited to, such terms and conditions as may be necessary to meet the applicable provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code.
provided, however
(b) Upon the selection of an Employee or Consultant to be granted an Option, the Administrator shall instruct the Secretary of the Company to issue the Option and may impose such conditions on the grant of the Option as it deems appropriate.
 
(c) Any Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan may be modified by the Administrator, with the consent of the Holder, to disqualify such Option from treatment as an "incentive stock option" under Section 422 of the Code.
4.5. . The Administrator shall from time to time, in its discretion, and subject to applicable limitations of the Plan:
Granting of Options to Non-Employee Directors
(a) Select from among the Non-Employee Directors (including Non-Employee Directors who have previously received Awards under the Plan) such of them as in its opinion should be granted Options;
(b) Subject to the Award Limit, determine the number of shares to be subject to such Options granted to the selected Non-Employee Directors; and
(c) Subject to the provisions of Article V, determine the terms and conditions of such Options, consistent with the Plan.
4.6. .
Automatic Grants to Non-Employee Directors
(a) During the term of the Plan, a person who first becomes a Non-Employee Director shall automatically, upon the date of his or her initial election or appointment to be a Non-Employee Director, be granted an Option to purchase 20,000 shares of Common Stock (an ""). A member of the Board who is also a former Employee will not be eligible to receive an Initial Option.
Initial Option
(b) The following provisions shall govern the terms of each Initial Option granted pursuant to this Section 4.6. Each Initial Option shall have an exercise price per share of Common Stock equal to 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date such Initial Option is granted. Each Initial Option shall vest and become exercisable for the shares of Common Stock subject to such Initial Option in a series of cumulative annual installments of one-third on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the grant date of such Initial Option, subject to the Non-Employee Director's continued service on the Board. The term of each Initial Option shall be 10 years from the date of grant. No Option granted to a Non-Employee Director under this Section 4.6 may be exercised after the first to occur of the following events:
(i) the expiration of twelve (12) months from the date of the Holder's death;
(ii) the expiration of twelve (12) months from the date of the Holder's Termination of Directorship by reason of his or her permanent and total disability (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code);
(iii) the expiration of three (3) months from the date of the Holder's Termination of Directorship for any reason other than such Holder's death or his or her permanent and total disability, unless the Holder dies within such three-month period; or
 
(iv) the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Option was granted.
Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator on or after the date of grant of such Initial Option, no portion of an Initial Option granted under this Section 4.6 which is not exercisable at the time of a Non-Employee Director's termination of service on the Board shall thereafter become exercisable.
5.1. . The price per share of Common Stock subject to each Option granted to Employees, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants shall be set by the Administrator; , that:
Option Price
provided, however
(a) In the case of Incentive Stock Options, such price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Option is granted (or the date the Option is modified, extended or renewed for purposes of Section 424(h) of the Code);
(b) In the case of Incentive Stock Options granted to an individual then owning (within the meaning of Section 424(d) of the Code) more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary Corporation or parent corporation thereof (as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code), such price shall not be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Option is granted (or the date the Option is modified, extended or renewed for purposes of Section 424(h) of the Code); and
(c) In the case of Non-Qualified Stock Options, such price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Option is granted.
5.2. . The term of an Option granted to an Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director shall be set by the Administrator in its discretion; , that the term shall not be more than ten (10) years from the date the Option is granted, or five (5) years from the date the Option is granted if the Option is an Incentive Stock Option granted to an individual then owning (within the meaning of Section 424(d) of the Code) more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary Corporation or parent corporation thereof (as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code). Except as limited by requirements of Section 409A or Section 422 of the Code and regulations and rulings thereunder, the Administrator may extend the term of any outstanding Option in connection with any Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy of the Holder, or amend any other term or condition of such Option relating to such a Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy.
Option Term
provided, however
 
5.3. .
Option Vesting
(a) The period during which the right to exercise, in whole or in part, an Option vests in the Holder shall be set by the Administrator and the Administrator may determine that an Option may not be exercised in whole or in part for a specified period after it is granted; , that, unless the Administrator otherwise provides in the terms of the Award Agreement or otherwise, no Option granted to a person subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act shall be exercisable until at least six months have elapsed following the date on which the Option was granted. At any time after grant of an Option, the Administrator may, in its discretion and subject to whatever terms and conditions it selects, accelerate the period during which an Option vests, subject to Section 3.4(b).
provided, however
(b) No portion of an Option granted to an Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director which is unexercisable at Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, shall thereafter become exercisable, except as may be otherwise provided by the Administrator either in the Award Agreement or by action of the Administrator following the grant of the Option, subject to Section 3.4(b).
(c) To the extent that the aggregate fair market value of stock with respect to which "incentive stock options" (within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, but without regard to Section 422(d) of the Code) are exercisable for the first time by a Holder during any calendar year under the Plan, and all other plans of the Company and any Subsidiary Corporation or parent corporation thereof (as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code), exceeds $100,000, the Options shall be treated as Non-Qualified Stock Options to the extent required by Section 422 of the Code. The rule set forth in the preceding sentence shall be applied by taking Options and other "incentive stock options" into account in the order in which they were granted. For purposes of this Section 5.3(c), the fair market value of stock shall be determined as of the time the Option or other "incentive stock options" with respect to such stock is granted.
5.4. . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article V to the contrary, in the case of an Option that is a Substitute Award, the price per share of the shares subject to such Option may be less than the Fair Market Value per share on the date of grant, , that the excess of: (a) the aggregate Fair Market Value (as of the date such Substitute Award is granted) of the shares subject to the Substitute Award, over (b) the aggregate exercise price thereof does not exceed the excess of: (x) the aggregate fair market value (as of the time immediately preceding the transaction giving rise to the Substitute Award, such fair market value to be determined by the Administrator) of the shares of the predecessor entity that were subject to the grant assumed or substituted for by the Company, over (y) the aggregate exercise price of such shares.
Substitute Awards
provided
6.1. . An exercisable Option may be exercised in whole or in part. However, an Option shall not be exercisable with respect to fractional shares and the Administrator may require that, by the terms of the Option, a partial exercise be with respect to a minimum number of shares.
Partial Exercise
 
6.2. . All or a portion of an exercisable Option shall be deemed exercised upon delivery of all of the following to the Secretary of the Company, or such other person or entity designated by the Administrator, or his, her or its office, as applicable:
Manner of Exercise
(a) A written notice complying with the applicable rules established by the Administrator stating that the Option, or a portion thereof, is exercised. Such rules may provide that for administrative convenience an Option may not be exercised during such period (not exceeding 10 days) as is specified in advance by the Administrator. The notice shall be signed by the Holder or other person then entitled to exercise the Option or such portion of the Option;
(b) Such representations and documents as the Administrator, in its discretion, deems necessary or advisable to effect compliance with all applicable provisions of the Securities Act and any other federal, state or foreign securities laws or regulations. The Administrator may, in its discretion, also take whatever additional actions it deems appropriate to effect such compliance including, without limitation, placing legends on share certificates and issuing stop-transfer notices to agents and registrars;
(c) In the event that the Option shall be exercised pursuant to Section 11.1 by any person or persons other than the Holder, appropriate proof of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option; and
(d) Full cash payment to the Secretary of the Company for the shares with respect to which the Option, or portion thereof, is exercised. However, the Administrator may, in its discretion, (i) allow payment, in whole or in part, through the delivery of shares of Common Stock which have been owned by the Holder for at least six months, duly endorsed for transfer to the Company with a Fair Market Value on the date of delivery equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Option or exercised portion thereof; (ii) allow payment, in whole or in part, through the surrender of shares of Common Stock then issuable upon exercise of the Option having a Fair Market Value on the date of Option exercise equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Option or exercised portion thereof; (iii) allow payment, in whole or in part, through the delivery of property of any kind which constitutes good and valuable consideration; (iv) allow payment, in whole or in part, through the delivery of a notice that the Holder has placed a market sell order with a broker with respect to shares of Common Stock then issuable upon exercise of the Option, and the broker timely pays a sufficient portion of the net proceeds of the sale to the Company in satisfaction of the Option exercise price; or (v) allow payment through any combination of the consideration provided in the foregoing subparagraphs (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv); , that the payment in the manner prescribed in the preceding paragraphs shall not be permitted to the extent that the Administrator determines that payment in such manner shall result in an extension or maintenance of credit, an arrangement for the extension of credit, or a renewal or an extension of credit in the form of a personal loan to or for any Director or executive officer of the Company that is prohibited by Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act or other applicable law.
provided, however
 
6.3. . The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for shares of stock purchased upon the exercise of any Option or portion thereof prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions:
Conditions to Issuance of Stock Certificates
(a) The admission of such shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed;
(b) The completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any federal, state or foreign law, or under the rulings or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body which the Administrator shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable;
(c) The obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any federal, state or foreign governmental agency which the Administrator shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable;
(d) The lapse of such reasonable period of time following the exercise of the Option as the Administrator may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience; and
(e) The receipt by the Company of full payment for such shares, including payment of any applicable withholding tax, which in the discretion of the Administrator may be in the form of consideration used by the Holder to pay for such shares under Section 6.2(d).
6.4. . Holders shall not be, nor have any of the rights or privileges of, stockholders of the Company in respect of any shares purchasable upon the exercise of any part of an Option unless and until certificates representing such shares have been issued by the Company to such Holders.
Rights as Stockholders
6.5. . The Administrator, in its discretion, may impose such restrictions on the ownership and transferability of the shares purchasable upon the exercise of an Option as it deems appropriate. Any such restriction shall be set forth in the respective Award Agreement and may be referred to on the certificates evidencing such shares. The Holder shall give the Company prompt notice of any disposition of shares of Common Stock acquired by exercise of an Incentive Stock Option within (a) two years from the date of granting (including the date the Option is modified, extended or renewed for purposes of Section 424(h) of the Code) such Option to such Holder, or (b) one year after the transfer of such shares to such Holder.
Ownership and Transfer Restrictions
6.6. . Holders may be required to comply with any timing or other restrictions with respect to the settlement or exercise of an Option, including a window-period limitation, as may be imposed in the discretion of the Administrator.
Additional Limitations on Exercise of Options
 
7.1. . Subject to the Award Limit, Restricted Stock may be awarded to any Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director who the Administrator determines should receive such an Award.
Eligibility
7.2. .
Award of Restricted Stock
(a) The Administrator may from time to time, in its discretion:
(i) Select from among the Employees, Non-Employee Directors or Consultants (including Employees, Non-Employee Directors or Consultants who have previously received Awards under the Plan) such of them as in its opinion should be awarded Restricted Stock; and
(ii) Determine the purchase price, if any, and other terms and conditions applicable to such Restricted Stock, consistent with the Plan.
(b) The Administrator shall establish the purchase price, if any, and form of payment for Restricted Stock; , that such purchase price shall be no less than the par value of the Common Stock to be purchased, unless otherwise permitted by applicable state law. In all cases, legal consideration shall be required for each issuance of Restricted Stock.
provided, however
(c) Upon the selection of an Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director to be awarded Restricted Stock, the Administrator shall instruct the Secretary of the Company to issue such Restricted Stock and may impose such conditions on the issuance of such Restricted Stock as it deems appropriate.
7.3. . Subject to Section 7.4, upon delivery of the shares of Restricted Stock to the escrow holder pursuant to Section 7.6, the Holder shall have, unless otherwise provided by the Administrator, all the rights of a stockholder with respect to said shares, subject to the restrictions in his or her Award Agreement, including the right to receive all dividends and other distributions paid or made with respect to the shares; , that, in the discretion of the Administrator, any extraordinary distributions with respect to the Common Stock shall be subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 7.4.
Rights as Stockholders
provided, however
7.4. . All shares of Restricted Stock issued under the Plan (including any shares received by Holders thereof with respect to shares of Restricted Stock as a result of stock dividends, stock splits or any other form of recapitalization) shall, in the terms of each individual Award Agreement, be subject to such restrictions as the Administrator shall provide, which restrictions may include, without limitation, restrictions concerning voting rights and transferability and restrictions based on duration of employment, directorship or consultancy with the Company, Company performance and individual performance; , by action taken after the Restricted Stock is issued, the Administrator may, on such terms and conditions as it may determine to be appropriate, remove any or all of the restrictions imposed by
Restriction
provided, however
 
the terms of the Award Agreement. Restricted Stock may not be sold or encumbered until all restrictions are terminated or expire. If no consideration was paid by the Holder upon issuance, a Holder's rights in unvested Restricted Stock shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock shall be surrendered to the Company without consideration, upon Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship, or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable; , that the Administrator in its discretion may provide that such rights shall not lapse in the event of a Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, following a Change in Control or because of the Holder's retirement, death or disability or termination without cause, or otherwise, subject to Section 3.4(b).
provided, however
7.5. . The Administrator shall provide in the terms of each individual Award Agreement that the Company shall have the right to repurchase from the Holder the Restricted Stock then subject to restrictions under the Award Agreement immediately upon a Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship, or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, at a cash price per share equal to the price paid by the Holder for such Restricted Stock; , that the Administrator in its discretion may provide that such rights shall not lapse in the event of a Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, following a Change in Control or because of the Holder's retirement, death or disability or termination without cause, or otherwise, subject to Section 3.4(b).
Repurchase of Restricted Stock
provided, however
7.6. . The Secretary of the Company or such other escrow holder as the Administrator may appoint shall retain physical custody of each certificate representing Restricted Stock until all of the restrictions imposed under the Award Agreement with respect to the shares evidenced by such certificate expire or shall have been removed.
Escrow
7.7. . In order to enforce the restrictions imposed upon shares of Restricted Stock hereunder, the Administrator shall cause a legend or legends to be placed on certificates representing all shares of Restricted Stock that are still subject to restrictions under Award Agreements, which legend or legends shall make appropriate reference to the conditions imposed thereby.
Legend
7.8. . If a Holder makes an election under Section 83(b) of the Code, or any successor section thereto, to be taxed with respect to the Restricted Stock as of the date of transfer of the Restricted Stock rather than as of the date or dates upon which the Holder would otherwise be taxable under Section 83(a) of the Code, the Holder shall deliver a copy of such election to the Company immediately after filing such election with the Internal Revenue Service.
Section 83(b) Election
 
8.1. . Subject to the Award Limit, one or more Performance Awards, Dividend Equivalent Awards, Stock Payment Awards, Deferred Stock Awards and/or Restricted Stock Unit Awards may be granted to any Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director whom the Administrator determines should receive such an Award.
Eligibility
8.2. .
Performance Awards
(a) Any Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director selected by the Administrator may be granted one or more Performance Awards. The value of such Performance Awards may be linked to any one or more of the Performance Criteria or other specific performance criteria determined appropriate by the Administrator, in each case on a specified date or dates or over any period or periods determined by the Administrator. In making such determinations, the Administrator shall consider (among such other factors as it deems relevant in light of the specific type of award) the contributions, responsibilities and other compensation of the particular Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director.
(b) Without limiting Section 8.2(a), the Administrator may grant Performance Awards to any Covered Employee in the form of a cash bonus payable upon the attainment of objective Performance Goals which are established by the Administrator, in each case on a specified date or dates or over any period or periods determined by the Administrator. Any such bonuses paid to Covered Employees shall be based upon objectively determinable bonus formulas established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.2. The maximum aggregate amount of all Performance Awards granted to a Covered Employee under this Section 8.2(b) during any calendar year shall not exceed the Award Limit. Unless otherwise specified by the Administrator at the time of grant, the Performance Criteria with respect to a Performance Award payable to a Covered Employee shall be determined on the basis of GAAP.
8.3. . Any Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director selected by the Administrator may be granted Dividend Equivalents based on the dividends declared on Common Stock, to be credited as of dividend payment dates, during the period between the date a Full Value Award is granted and the date such Full Value Award vests, is exercised, is distributed or expires, as determined by the Administrator. Such Dividend Equivalents shall be converted to cash or additional shares of Common Stock by such formula and at such time and subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Administrator.
Dividend Equivalents
8.4. . Any Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director selected by the Administrator may receive Stock Payments in the manner determined from time to time by the Administrator. The number of shares shall be determined by the Administrator and may be based upon the Performance Criteria or other specific performance criteria determined appropriate by the Administrator, determined on the date such Stock Payment is made or on any date thereafter.
Stock Payments
 
8.5. . Any Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director selected by the Administrator may be granted an award of Deferred Stock in the manner determined from time to time by the Administrator. The number of shares of Deferred Stock shall be determined by the Administrator and may be linked to the satisfaction of one or more Performance Goals or other specific performance goals as the Administrator determines to be appropriate at the time of grant, in each case on a specified date or dates or over any period or periods determined by the Administrator. Common Stock underlying a Deferred Stock Award will not be issued until the Deferred Stock Award has vested, pursuant to a vesting schedule or performance criteria set by the Administrator. Unless otherwise provided by the Administrator, a Holder of Deferred Stock shall have no rights as a Company stockholder with respect to such Deferred Stock until such time as the Award has vested and the Common Stock underlying the Award has been issued.
Deferred Stock
8.6. . Any Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director selected by the Administrator may be granted an award of Restricted Stock Units in the manner determined from time to time by the Administrator. The Administrator is authorized to make awards of Restricted Stock Units in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the Administrator. The Administrator shall specify the date or dates on which the Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable, and may specify such conditions to vesting as it deems appropriate, and may specify that such Restricted Stock Units become fully vested and nonforfeitable pursuant to the satisfaction of one or more Performance Goals or other specific performance goals as the Administrator determines to be appropriate at the time of the grant, in each case on a specified date or dates or over any period or periods determined by the Administrator. The Administrator shall specify the distribution dates applicable to each award of Restricted Stock Units which shall be no earlier than the vesting dates or events of the award and may be determined at the election of the Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director, subject to compliance with Section 409A of the Code. On the distribution dates, the Company shall issue to the Holder one unrestricted, fully transferable share of Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit distributed.
Restricted Stock Units
8.7. . The term of a Performance Award, Dividend Equivalent Award, Deferred Stock Award, Stock Payment Award and/or Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be set by the Administrator in its discretion.
Term
8.8. . The Administrator may establish the exercise or purchase price of a Performance Award, shares of Deferred Stock, shares distributed as a Stock Payment Award or shares distributed pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit Award; , that such price shall not be less than the par value of a share of Common Stock, unless otherwise permitted by applicable state law.
Exercise or Purchase Price
provided, however
8.9. . A Performance Award, Dividend Equivalent Award, Deferred Stock Award, Stock Payment Award and/or Restricted Stock Unit Award is exercisable or distributable only while the Holder is an Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director, as applicable; , that the Administrator in its discretion may provide that the Performance Award, Dividend Equivalent Award, Deferred Stock Award, Stock Payment Award and/or Restricted Stock Unit Award may be exercised or distributed subsequent to a Termination
Exercise upon Termination of Employment, Termination of Consultancy or Termination of Directorship
provided, however
 
of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy following a "change of control or ownership" (within the meaning of Section 1.162-27(e)(2)(v) or any successor regulation thereto) of the Company; and, , that, except with respect to Performance Awards granted to Covered Employees, the Administrator in its discretion may provide that Performance Awards may be exercised or paid following a Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, following a Change in Control, or because of the Holder's retirement, death or disability or termination without cause, or otherwise, subject to Section 3.4(b).
provided, further
8.10. . Payment of the amount determined under Section 8.2 or 8.3 above shall be in cash, in Common Stock or a combination of both, as determined by the Administrator. To the extent any payment under this Article VIII is effected in Common Stock, it shall be made subject to satisfaction of all provisions of Section 6.3.
Form of Payment
9.1. . A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted to any Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director selected by the Administrator. A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted: (a) in connection and simultaneously with the grant of an Option, or (b) independent of an Option. A Stock Appreciation Right shall be subject to such terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as the Administrator shall impose and shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement.
Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights
9.2. .
Coupled Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) A Coupled Stock Appreciation Right ("") shall be related to a particular Option and shall be exercisable only when and to the extent the related Option is exercisable.
CSAR
(b) A CSAR may be granted to the Holder for no more than the number of shares subject to the simultaneously granted Option to which it is coupled.
(c) A CSAR shall entitle the Holder (or other person entitled to exercise the Option pursuant to the Plan) to surrender to the Company unexercised a portion of the Option to which the CSAR relates (to the extent then exercisable pursuant to its terms) and to receive from the Company in exchange therefor an amount determined by multiplying (i) the difference obtained by subtracting the exercise price per share of the CSAR from (ii) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the CSAR by the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the CSAR shall have been exercised, subject to any limitations the Administrator may impose.
9.3. .
Independent Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) An Independent Stock Appreciation Right ("") shall be unrelated to any Option and shall have a term set by the Administrator in its discretion; , that the term shall not be more than ten (10) years from the date the ISAR is granted.
ISAR
provided, however
 
An ISAR shall be exercisable in such installments as the Administrator may determine. An ISAR shall cover such number of shares of Common Stock as the Administrator may determine; , that unless the Administrator otherwise provides in the terms of the Award Agreement or otherwise, no ISAR granted to a person subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act shall be exercisable until at least six months have elapsed following the date on which the ISAR was granted. The exercise price per share of Common Stock subject to each ISAR shall be set by the Administrator; that such exercise price per share shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the ISAR is granted. An ISAR is exercisable only while the Holder is an Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director; that the Administrator may provide that ISARs may be exercised following a Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, or following a Change in Control, or because of the Holder's retirement, death or disability or termination without cause, or otherwise, subject to Section 3.4(b).
provided, however
provided,
provided,
(b) An ISAR shall entitle the Holder (or other person entitled to exercise the ISAR pursuant to the Plan) to exercise all or a specified portion of the ISAR (to the extent then exercisable pursuant to its terms) and to receive from the Company an amount determined by multiplying (i) the difference obtained by subtracting the exercise price per share of the ISAR from the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the ISAR by (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the ISAR shall have been exercised, subject to any limitations the Administrator may impose.
9.4. .
Payment and Limitations on Exercise
(a) Payment of the amounts determined under Section 9.2(c) and 9.3(b) above shall be in cash, shares of Common Stock (based on its Fair Market Value as of the date the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised), or a combination of both, as determined by the Administrator. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for shares of stock issuable upon the exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right prior to fulfillment of the conditions set forth in Section 6.3 above.
(b) Holders of Stock Appreciation Rights may be required to comply with any timing or other restrictions with respect to the settlement or exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, including a window-period limitation, as may be imposed in the discretion of the Administrator.
 
10.1. . The Committee shall consist solely of two or more Non-Employee Directors appointed by and holding office at the pleasure of the Board, each of whom is intended to qualify as both a "non-employee director" as defined by Rule 16b-3 and an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code. Appointment of Committee members shall be effective upon acceptance of appointment. Committee members may resign at any time by delivering written notice to the Board. Vacancies in the Committee may be filled by the Board.
Committee
10.2. . It shall be the duty of the Committee to conduct the general administration of the Plan in accordance with its provisions. The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Plan and the Award Agreements, and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith, to interpret, amend or revoke any such rules, to delegate authority in accordance with Section 10.5 and to amend any Award Agreement provided that the rights or obligations of the Holder of the Award that is the subject of any such Award Agreement are not affected adversely. Any such grant or award under the Plan need not be the same with respect to each Holder. Any such interpretations and rules with respect to Incentive Stock Options shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 422 of the Code. In its discretion, the Board may at any time and from time to time exercise any and all rights and duties of the Committee under the Plan except with respect to matters which under Rule 16b-3 or Section 162(m) of the Code, or any regulations or rules issued thereunder, are required to be determined in the discretion of the Committee.
Duties and Powers of Committee
10.3. . The Committee shall act by a majority of its members in attendance at a meeting at which a quorum is present or by a memorandum or other written instrument signed by all members of the Committee.
Majority Rule; Unanimous Written Consent
10.4. . Members of the Committee shall receive such compensation, if any, for their services as members as may be determined by the Board. All expenses and liabilities which members of the Committee incur in connection with the administration of the Plan shall be borne by the Company. The Committee may, with the approval of the Board, employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, appraisers, brokers or other persons. The Committee, the Company and the Company's officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions or valuations of any such persons. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee or the Board in good faith shall be final and binding upon all Holders, the Company and all other interested persons. No members of the Committee or Board shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or Awards, and all members of the Committee and the Board shall be fully protected by the Company in respect of any such action, determination or interpretation.
Compensation; Professional Assistance; Good Faith Actions
10.5. . To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Committee may, but need not, delegate from time to time some or all of its authority to grant Awards under the Plan to a committee or committees consisting of one or more
Delegation of Authority to Grant Awards
 
members of the Board and/or one or more officers of the Company; , that the authority to grant awards to the following individuals may not be delegated: (a) individuals who are subject to the reporting rules under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, (b) individuals who are Covered Employees, and (c) individuals who are officers of the Company who are delegated authority by the Committee hereunder. Any delegation hereunder shall be subject to the restrictions and limits that the Committee specifies at the time of such delegation of authority and may be rescinded at any time by the Committee. At all times, any committee appointed under this Section 10.5 shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Committee.
provided, however
11.1. .
Transferability of Awards
(a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 11.1(b):
(i) No Award under the Plan may be sold, pledged, assigned or transferred in any manner other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, subject to the consent of the Administrator, pursuant to a DRO, unless and until such Award has been exercised, or the shares underlying such Award have been issued, and all restrictions applicable to such shares have lapsed;
(ii) No Award or interest or right therein shall be liable for the debts, contracts or engagements of the Holder or his successors in interest or shall be subject to disposition by transfer, alienation, anticipation, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy), and any attempted disposition thereof shall be null and void and of no effect, except to the extent that such disposition is permitted by the preceding sentence; and
(iii) During the lifetime of the Holder, only the Holder may exercise an Option or other Award (or any portion thereof) granted to him under the Plan, unless it has been disposed of pursuant to a DRO; after the death of the Holder, any exercisable portion of an Option or other Award may, prior to the time when such portion becomes unexercisable under the Plan or the applicable Award Agreement, be exercised by his personal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Holder's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
(b) Notwithstanding Section 11.1(a), the Administrator, in its discretion, may determine to permit a Holder to transfer a Non-Qualified Stock Option to any one or more Permitted Transferees (as defined below), subject to the following terms and conditions: (i) a Non-Qualified Stock Option transferred to a Permitted Transferee shall not be assignable or transferable by the Permitted Transferee other than by will or the laws of descent
 
and distribution; (ii) any Non-Qualified Stock Option which is transferred to a Permitted Transferee shall continue to be subject to all the terms and conditions of the Non-Qualified Stock Option as applicable to the original Holder (other than the ability to further transfer the Non-Qualified Stock Option); and (iii) the Holder and the Permitted Transferee shall execute any and all documents requested by the Administrator, including, without limitation documents to (A) confirm the status of the transferee as a Permitted Transferee, (B) satisfy any requirements for an exemption for the transfer under applicable federal, state and foreign securities laws and (C) evidence the transfer. For purposes of this Section 11.1(b), "" shall mean, with respect to a Holder, any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the Holder's household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons (or the Holder) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the Holder) own more than fifty percent of the voting interests, or any other transferee specifically approved by the Administrator after taking into account any federal, state, local and foreign tax and securities laws applicable to transferable Non-Qualified Stock Options.
Permitted Transferee
11.2. . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 11.2, the Plan may be wholly or partially amended or otherwise modified, suspended or terminated at any time or from time to time by the Board, or the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board. However, without approval of the Company's stockholders given within twelve (12) months before or after the action by the Administrator, no action of the Administrator may, except as provided in Section 11.3, (i) increase the limits imposed in Section 2.1 on the maximum number of shares which may be issued under the Plan, (ii) decrease the exercise price of any outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan, or (iii) result in a material change in eligibility requirements. Except as provided in Section 11.12, no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall, without the consent of the Holder, alter or impair any rights or obligations under any Award theretofore granted or awarded, unless the Award itself otherwise expressly so provides. No Awards may be granted or awarded during any period of suspension or after termination of the Plan, and in no event may any Award be granted under the Plan after the first to occur of the following events:
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
(a) The expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Plan is adopted by the Board; or
(b) The expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Plan is first approved by the Company's stockholders.
11.3. .
Changes in Common Stock or Assets of the Company, Acquisition or Liquidation of the Company and Other Corporate Events
(a) Subject to Section 11.3(d), in the event of any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase, liquidation, dissolution, or sale, transfer, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or
 
exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Common Stock or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event that affects the Common Stock, then the Administrator shall equitably adjust any or all of the following in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan or with respect to an Award:
(i) The number and kind of shares of Common Stock (or other securities or property) with respect to which Awards may be granted or awarded (including, without limitation, adjustments of the limitations in Section 2.1 on the maximum number and kind of shares which may be issued under the Plan, adjustments of the Award Limit, and adjustments of the manner in which shares subject to Full Value Awards will be counted);
(ii) The number and kind of shares of Common Stock (or other securities or property) subject to outstanding Awards;
(iii) The number and kind of shares of Common Stock (or other securities or property) for which automatic grants are subsequently to be made to new and continuing Non-Employee Directors pursuant to Section 4.6; and
(iv) The grant or exercise price with respect to any Award.
(b) Subject to Section 11.3(d), in the event of any transaction or event described in Section 11.3(a) or any unusual or nonrecurring transactions or events affecting the Company, any affiliate of the Company, or the financial statements of the Company or any affiliate, or of changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles, the Administrator, in its discretion, and on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate, either by the terms of the Award or by action taken prior to the occurrence of such transaction or event and either automatically or upon the Holder's request, is hereby authorized to take any one or more of the following actions whenever the Administrator determines that such action is appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan or with respect to any Award under the Plan, to facilitate such transactions or events or to give effect to such changes in laws, regulations or principles:
(i) To provide for the purchase of any such Award for an amount of cash equal to the amount that could have been attained upon the exercise of such Award or realization of the Holder's rights had such Award been currently exercisable or payable or fully vested;
(ii) To provide for the replacement of such Award with other rights or property selected by the Administrator in its discretion having an aggregate value not exceeding the amount that could have been attained upon the exercise of such Award or realization of the Holder's rights had such Award been currently exercisable or payable or fully vested;
 
(iii) To provide that the Award cannot vest, be exercised or become payable after such event;
(iv) To provide that such Award shall be exercisable as to all shares covered thereby, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 5.3 or the provisions of such Award;
(v) To provide that such Award be assumed by the successor or survivor corporation, or a parent or subsidiary thereof, or shall be substituted for by similar options, rights or awards covering the stock of the successor or survivor corporation, or a parent or subsidiary thereof, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares and prices;
(vi) To make adjustments in the number and type of shares of Common Stock (or other securities or property) subject to outstanding Awards, and/or in the terms and conditions of (including the grant, exercise or purchase price), and the criteria included in, outstanding options, rights and awards and options, rights and awards which may be granted in the future; and
(vii) To provide that, for a specified period of time prior to such event, the restrictions imposed under an Award Agreement upon some or all shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock may be terminated, and, in the case of Restricted Stock, some or all shares of such Restricted Stock may cease to be subject to repurchase under Section 7.5 or forfeiture under Section 7.4 after such event.
(c) Subject to Sections 11.3(d) and 3.2, the Administrator may, in its discretion, include such further provisions and limitations in any Award, agreement or certificate, as it may deem equitable and in the best interests of the Company.
(d) With respect to Awards which are granted to Covered Employees and are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m)(4)(C), no adjustment or action described in this Section 11.3 or in any other provision of the Plan shall be authorized to the extent that such adjustment or action would cause such Award to fail to so qualify under Section 162(m)(4)(C), or any successor provisions thereto. No adjustment or action described in this Section 11.3 or in any other provision of the Plan shall be authorized to the extent that such adjustment or action would cause the Plan to violate Section 422(b)(1) of the Code. Furthermore, no such adjustment or action shall be authorized to the extent such adjustment or action would result in short-swing profits liability under Section 16 or violate the exemptive conditions of Rule 16b-3 unless the Administrator determines that the Award is not to comply with such exemptive conditions. The number of shares of Common Stock subject to any Award shall always be rounded down to the next whole number.
(e) The existence of the Plan, the Award Agreement and the Awards granted hereunder shall not affect or restrict in any way the right or power of the Company or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company, any issue of stock or of options, warrants or rights to purchase
 
stock or of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks whose rights are superior to or affect the Common Stock or the rights thereof or which are convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock, or the dissolution or liquidation of the company, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.
(f) No action shall be taken under this Section 11.3 which shall cause an Award to fail to comply with Section 409A of the Code or the Treasury Regulations thereunder, to the extent applicable to such Award.
11.4. . The Plan will be submitted for the approval of the Company's stockholders within twelve (12) months after the date of the Board's initial adoption of the Plan. No Awards may be granted or awarded prior to such stockholder approval. In addition, if the Board determines that Awards other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights which may be granted to Covered Employees should continue to be eligible to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, the Performance Criteria must be disclosed to and approved by the Company's stockholders no later than the first stockholder meeting that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which the Company's stockholders previously approved the Plan.
Approval of Plan by Stockholders
11.5. . The Company or any Subsidiary shall have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Holder to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, local and foreign taxes (including the Holder's FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any taxable event concerning a Holder arising as a result of this Plan. The Administrator may in its discretion and in satisfaction of the foregoing requirement allow a Holder to elect to have the Company withhold shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable under an Award (or allow the return of shares of Common Stock) having a Fair Market Value equal to the sums required to be withheld. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the number of shares of Common Stock which may be withheld with respect to the issuance, vesting, exercise or payment of any Award (or which may be repurchased from the Holder of such Award within six months (or such other period as may be determined by the Administrator) after such shares of Common Stock were acquired by the Holder from the Company) in order to satisfy the Holder's federal, state, local and foreign income and payroll tax liabilities with respect to the issuance, vesting, exercise or payment of the Award shall be limited to the number of shares which have a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding or repurchase equal to the aggregate amount of such liabilities based on the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal, state, local and foreign income tax and payroll tax purposes that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income.
Tax Withholding
11.6. . Subject to Section 11.3, the Administrator shall not, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, authorize the amendment of any outstanding Award to reduce its price per share. Furthermore, no Award shall be canceled and replaced with the grant of an Award having a lesser price per share without the further approval of stockholders of the Company. Subject to Section 11.2, the Administrator shall have the authority, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, to amend any outstanding award to increase the price per share or to cancel and replace an Award with the grant of an Award having a price per share that is greater than or equal to the price per share of the original Award.
Prohibition on Repricing
 
11.7. . Pursuant to its general authority to determine the terms and conditions applicable to Awards under the Plan, the Administrator shall have the right to provide, in the terms of Awards made under the Plan, or to require a Holder to agree by separate written instrument, that: (a)(i) any proceeds, gains or other economic benefit actually or constructively received by the Holder upon any receipt or exercise of the Award, or upon the receipt or resale of any Common Stock underlying the Award, must be paid to the Company, and (ii) the Award shall terminate and any unexercised portion of the Award (whether or not vested) shall be forfeited, if (b)(i) a Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy occurs prior to a specified date, or within a specified time period following receipt or exercise of the Award, or (ii) the Holder at any time, or during a specified time period, engages in any activity in competition with the Company, or which is inimical, contrary or harmful to the interests of the Company, as further defined by the Administrator or (iii) the Holder incurs a Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy for "cause" (as such term is defined in the discretion of the Administrator, or as set forth in a written agreement relating to such Award between the Company and the Holder).
Forfeiture Provisions
11.8. . The adoption of the Plan shall not affect any other compensation or incentive plans in effect for the Company or any Subsidiary. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company or any Subsidiary: (a) to establish any other forms of incentives or compensation for Employees, Directors or Consultants of the Company or any Subsidiary, or (b) to grant or assume options or other rights or awards otherwise than under the Plan in connection with any proper corporate purpose including without limitation, the grant or assumption of options in connection with the acquisition by purchase, lease, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of the business, stock or assets of any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, firm or association.
Effect of Plan upon Other Compensation Plans
11.9. . The Plan, the granting and vesting of Awards under the Plan and the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock and the payment of money under the Plan or under Awards granted or awarded hereunder are subject to compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations (including but not limited to federal, state and foreign securities law and margin requirements) and to such approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, be necessary or advisable in connection therewith. Any securities delivered under the Plan shall be subject to such restrictions, and the person acquiring such securities shall, if requested by the Company, provide such assurances and representations to the Company as the Company may deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance with all applicable legal requirements. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Plan and Awards granted or awarded hereunder shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such laws, rules and regulations.
Compliance with Laws
11.10. . Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.
Titles
 
11.11. . The Plan and any agreements hereunder shall be administered, interpreted and enforced under the internal laws of the State of Delaware without regard to conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
11.12. . To the extent that the Administrator determines that any Award granted under the Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Award Agreement evidencing such Award shall incorporate the terms and conditions required by Section 409A of the Code. To the extent applicable, the Plan and Award Agreements shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that following the Effective Date the Administrator determines that any Award may be subject to Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance (including such Department of Treasury guidance as may be issued after the Effective Date), the Administrator may adopt such amendments to the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Administrator determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Award from Section 409A of the Code and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to the Award, or (b) comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance.
Section 409A
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan was duly adopted by the Board of Directors of Safeway Inc. on March 27, 2007.
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan was approved by the stockholders of Safeway Inc. on May 16, 2007.
 
I hereby certify that, as of the effective date of the Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan, an aggregate of 425,982 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Safeway Inc. were available for future awards under the 1999 Amended and Restated Equity Participation Plan of Safeway Inc., as amended.
 
 

Exhibit 10(iii).29
Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the ""), hereby grants to the holder listed below (""), an option to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), set forth below (the "") at the price set forth below (the ""). This Option is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as (the "") and the Plan, each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this Stock Option Grant Notice (the "").
Company
Plan
Participant
Stock
Shares
Option
Exhibit A
Stock Option Agreement
Grant Notice
 
 
By his or her signature below, Participant agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Stock Option Agreement and this Grant Notice. Participant has reviewed the Stock Option Agreement, the Plan and this Grant Notice in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Grant Notice and fully understands all provisions of this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan. Participant hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions arising under or relating to the Plan, this Grant Notice or the Stock Option Agreement.
 
 
Pursuant to the Stock Option Grant Notice (the "") to which this Stock Option Agreement (this "") is attached, Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), has granted to Participant an option to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), specified in the Grant Notice, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the ""), the Grant Notice and this Agreement.
Grant Notice
Agreement
Company
Stock
Plan
1.1 . Wherever the following terms are used in this Agreement they shall have the meanings specified below, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Capitalized terms not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Grant Notice or, if not defined therein, the Plan.
Defined Terms
"" shall mean the date Participant attains the age of 55.
Retirement Date
1.2 . The Option is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan which are incorporated herein by reference.
Incorporation of Terms of Plan
2.1 . In consideration of Participant's agreement to remain in the service or employ of the Company or a Subsidiary and for other good and valuable consideration, effective as of the "Grant Date" set forth in the Grant Notice (the ""), the Company irrevocably grants to Participant an option to purchase any part or all of an aggregate of the number of shares of Stock set forth in the Grant Notice, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, the Grant Notice and this Agreement. Unless designated as an Incentive Stock Option in the Grant Notice, the Option shall be a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
Grant of Option
Grant Date
2.2 . The exercise price of the shares of Stock subject to the Option shall be as set forth in the Grant Notice, without commission or other charge; , , that the exercise price per share of Stock subject to the Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Grant Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and Participant owns (within the meaning of Section 424(d) of the Code) more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary Corporation or "parent corporation" of the Company (as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code), the exercise price per share of Stock subject to the Option shall not be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Grant Date (or the date the Option is modified, extended or renewed for purposes of Section 424(h) of the Code).
Exercise Price
provided
however
 
2.3 . In consideration of the grant of the Option by the Company, Participant agrees to render faithful and efficient services to the Company or any Subsidiary. Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer upon Participant any right to continue in the employ or service of the Company or any Subsidiary or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company and its Subsidiaries, which rights are hereby expressly reserved, to discharge or terminate the services of Participant at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in a written agreement between the Company or a Subsidiary and Participant.
Consideration to the Company; No Employment Rights
3.1 .
Commencement of Exercisability
(a) Subject to Sections 3.2 and 3.3, the Option shall become vested and exercisable in such amounts and at such times as are set forth in the Grant Notice.
(b) No portion of the Option which has not become vested and exercisable at the date of Participant's Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, shall thereafter become vested and exercisable, except as may be otherwise provided by the Administrator or as set forth in a written agreement between the Company and Participant.
3.2 . The installments provided for in the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice are cumulative. Each such installment which becomes vested and exercisable pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice shall remain vested and exercisable until it becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3.
Duration of Exercisability
3.3 . The Option may not be exercised to any extent by anyone after the first to occur of the following events:
Expiration of Option
(a) The expiration of six years following the Grant Date;
(b) If this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and Participant owned (within the meaning of Section 424(d) of the Code), at the time the Option was granted, more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary Corporation or any "parent corporation" of the Company (as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code), the expiration of five years from the Grant Date;
(c) The expiration of three months following the date of Participant's Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, unless such termination occurs on or after the Retirement Date or by reason of Participant's death, Participant's "permanent and total disability" (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code) or Participant's engagement in willful misconduct that injures the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(d) The expiration of 12 months following the date of Participant's Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy, as applicable, on or after the Retirement Date or by reason of Participant's death or Participant's "permanent and total disability" (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code);
 
(e) The date of Participant's Termination of Employment, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Consultancy by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary by reason of Participant's engagement in willful misconduct that injures the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; or
Participant acknowledges that an Incentive Stock Option exercised more than three months after Participant's Termination of Employment, other than by reason of death or Participant's "permanent and total disability" (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), will be taxed as a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
3.4 . Immediately prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Option shall vest and become exercisable as to all shares of Stock covered thereby, notwithstanding that the Option may not yet have become fully vested and exercisable under Section 3.1(a).
Acceleration of Exercisability
3.5 . Participant acknowledges that, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the time the Option is granted) of all shares of Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options, including the Option, are exercisable for the first time by Participant in any calendar year exceeds $100,000, the Option and such other options shall be Non-Qualified Stock Options to the extent necessary to comply with the limitations imposed by Section 422(d) of the Code. Participant further acknowledges that the rule set forth in the preceding sentence shall be applied by taking the Option and other "incentive stock options" into account in the order in which they were granted, as determined under Section 422(d) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
Special Tax Consequences
4.1 . Except as provided in Sections 5.2(b) and 5.2(c), during the lifetime of Participant, only Participant may exercise the Option or any portion thereof. After the death of Participant, any exercisable portion of the Option may, prior to the time when the Option becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3, be exercised by Participant's personal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Participant's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
Person Eligible to Exercise
4.2 . Any exercisable portion of the Option or the entire Option, if then wholly exercisable, may be exercised in whole or in part at any time prior to the time when the Option or portion thereof becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3; ,, that each partial exercise shall be for not less than 100 shares (or, if less, the maximum number of shares for which the Option is vested and exercisable at such time) and shall be for whole shares only.
Partial Exercise
provided
however
4.3 . The Option, or any exercisable portion thereof, may be exercised solely by delivery to the Secretary of the Company or the Secretary's office of all of the following prior to the time when the Option or such portion thereof becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3:
Manner of Exercise
(a) An Exercise Notice in writing signed by Participant or any other person then entitled to exercise the Option or portion thereof, stating that the Option or portion thereof is thereby exercised, such notice complying with all applicable rules established by the Administrator. Such notice shall be substantially in the form attached as to the Grant Notice (or such other form as is prescribed by the Administrator);
Exhibit B
 
(b) The receipt by the Company of full payment for the shares with respect to which the Option or portion thereof is exercised, including payment of any applicable withholding tax, which may be in one or more of the forms of consideration permitted under Section 4.4;
(c) Such representations and documents as the Administrator, in its discretion, deems necessary or advisable to effect compliance with all applicable provisions of the Securities Act and any other federal, state or foreign securities laws or regulations. The Administrator may, in its discretion, also take whatever additional actions it deems appropriate to effect such compliance including, without limitation, placing legends on share certificates and issuing stop-transfer orders to transfer agents and registrars; and
(d) In the event the Option or portion thereof shall be exercised pursuant to Section 4.1 by any person or persons other than Participant, appropriate proof of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option.
4.4 . Payment of the exercise price shall be by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of Participant:
Method of Payment
(a) cash;
(b) check;
(c) to the extent permitted under applicable laws, delivery of a notice that Participant has placed a market sell order with a broker with respect to shares of Stock then issuable upon exercise of the Option, and that the broker has been directed to pay a sufficient portion of the net proceeds of the sale to the Company in satisfaction of the aggregate exercise price; , that payment of such proceeds is then made to the Company upon settlement of such sale;
provided
(d) with the consent of the Administrator, through the delivery of shares of Stock which have been owned by Participant for at least six months, duly endorsed for transfer to the Company with a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Option or exercised portion thereof; or
(e) any combination of the foregoing.
4.5 . The shares of Stock deliverable upon the exercise of the Option, or any portion thereof, may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have then been reacquired by the Company. Such shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any shares of Stock purchased upon the exercise of the Option or portion thereof prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions:
Conditions to Issuance of Shares
(a) The admission of such shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such Stock is then listed;
(b) The completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any federal, state or foreign law or under rulings or regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body, which the Administrator shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable;
 
(c) The obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any federal, state or foreign governmental agency which the Administrator shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable;
(d) The receipt by the Company of full payment for such shares, including payment of any applicable withholding tax, which may be in one or more of the forms of consideration permitted under Section 4.4;
(e) Unless a Registration Statement under the Securities Act is in effect with respect to the shares of Stock to be issued, the receipt of a written representation of Participant that the shares of Stock are being acquired by Participant for investment and with no present intention of selling or transferring them and that Participant will not sell or otherwise transfer the shares except in compliance with all applicable securities laws; and
(f) The lapse of such reasonable period of time following the exercise of the Option and the satisfaction of all other conditions to issuance as the Administrator may from time to time establish for reasons of administrative convenience.
4.6 . The holder of the Option shall not be, nor have any of the rights or privileges of, a stockholder of the Company in respect of any shares purchasable upon the exercise of any part of the Option unless and until such shares shall have been issued by the Company to such holder (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the shares are issued, except as provided in Section 11.3 of the Plan.
Rights as Stockholder
5.1 . The Administrator shall have the power to (a) interpret the Plan and this Agreement, (b) adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret, amend or revoke any such rules and (c) amend this Agreement, subject to Section 5.9. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Administrator in good faith shall be binding, conclusive and final upon Participant, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Administrator shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan, this Agreement or the Option. In its discretion, the Board may at any time and from time to time exercise any and all rights and duties of the Administrator under the Plan except with respect to matters which under Rule 16b-3 or Section 162(m) of the Code, or any regulations or rules issued thereunder, are required to be determined in the discretion of the Administrator.
Administration
 
(a) Subject to Section 5.2(b), the Option may not be sold, pledged, assigned or transferred in any manner other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Neither the Option nor any interest or right therein or part thereof shall be liable for the debts, contracts or engagements of Participant or Participant's successors in interest or shall be subject to sale or other disposition by transfer, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such sale or other disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy), and any attempted sale or other disposition thereof shall be null and void and of no effect, except to the extent that such sale or other disposition is permitted by the preceding sentence.
 
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, with the consent of the Administrator and to the extent the Option is not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option, the Option may be transferred to one or more Permitted Transferees, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in Section 11.1(b) of the Plan.
(c) Unless transferred to a Permitted Transferee in accordance with Section 5.2(b), during the lifetime of Participant, only Participant may exercise the Option or any portion thereof. Subject to such conditions and procedures as the Administrator may require, a Permitted Transferee may exercise the Option or any portion thereof during Participant's lifetime. After the death of Participant, any exercisable portion of the Option may, prior to the time when the Option becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3, be exercised by Participant's personal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Participant's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
 
(a) The share certificate or certificates evidencing the shares of Stock purchased hereunder shall be endorsed with any legends that may be required by any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws.
(b) Participant agrees that, in order to ensure compliance with the restrictions referred to herein, the Company may issue appropriate "stop transfer" instructions to its transfer agent, if any, and that, if the Company transfers its own securities, it may make appropriate notations to the same effect in its own records.
(c) The Company shall not be required: (i) to transfer on its books any shares of Stock that have been sold or otherwise transferred in violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement, or (ii) to treat as owner of such shares of Stock or to accord the right to vote or pay dividends to any purchaser or other transferee to whom such shares shall have been so transferred.
5.4 . The Company shall at all times during the term of the Option reserve and keep available such number of shares of Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement.
Shares to Be Reserved
5.5 . Any notice to be given under the terms of this Agreement to the Company shall be addressed to the Company in care of the Secretary of the Company at the address given beneath the signature of the Company's authorized officer on the Grant Notice, and any notice to be given to Participant shall be addressed to Participant at the address given beneath Participant's signature on the Grant Notice or at the last known address for Participant contained in the Company's records. By a notice given pursuant to this Section 5.5, either party may thereafter designate a different address for notices to be given to that party. Any notice which is required to be given to Participant shall, if Participant is then deceased, be given to the person entitled to exercise Participant's Option pursuant to Section 4.1 by written notice under this Section 5.5. Any notice shall be deemed duly given when sent via email or enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper addressed as aforesaid, deposited (with postage prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Postal Service.
Notices
5.6 . Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Titles
 
5.7 . This Agreement shall be administered, interpreted and enforced under the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of laws principles thereof. Should any provision of this Agreement be determined by a court of law to be illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions shall nevertheless remain effective and shall remain enforceable.
Governing Law; Severability
5.8 . Participant acknowledges that the Plan is intended to conform to the extent necessary with all applicable federal, state and foreign securities laws (including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) and any and all regulations and rules promulgated thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan shall be administered, and the Option is granted and may be exercised, only in such a manner as to conform to such laws, rules and regulations. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Plan and this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such laws, rules and regulations.
Conformity to Securities Laws
5.9 . This Agreement may not be modified, amended or terminated, except by an instrument in writing, signed by a duly authorized representative of the Company and, to the extent any such modification, amendment or termination may adversely affect the rights of Participant or such other person as may be permitted to exercise the Option pursuant to Section 4.1, by Participant or such other person, except as otherwise provided under the terms of the Plan.
Amendments
5.10 . The Company may assign any of its rights under this Agreement to single or multiple assignees, and this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer herein set forth in Section 5.2, this Agreement shall be binding upon Participant and Participant's heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
5.11 . If this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option, Participant shall give prompt notice to the Company of any disposition or other transfer of any shares of Stock acquired under this Agreement if such disposition or transfer is made (a) within two years from the Grant Date or (b) within one year after the transfer of such shares to Participant. Such notice shall specify the date of such disposition or other transfer and the amount realized, in cash, other property, assumption of indebtedness or other consideration, by Participant in such disposition or other transfer.
Notification of Disposition
5.12 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement, if Participant is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the Plan, the Option and this Agreement shall be subject to any additional limitations set forth in any applicable exemptive rule under Section 16 of the Exchange Act (including any amendment to Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act) that are requirements for the application of such exemptive rule. To the extent permitted by applicable law, this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such applicable exemptive rule.
Limitations Applicable to Section 16 Persons
5.13 . The Plan, the Grant Notice (including all Exhibits thereto) and this Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Participant with respect to the subject matter hereof, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in a written agreement between the Company or a Subsidiary and Participant.
Entire Agreement
 
Effective as of today, , 20, the undersigned "") hereby elects to exercise Participant's option to purchase the number of shares of common stock specified below (the "") of Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), under and pursuant to the Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the ""), the Stock Option Grant Notice dated as of , 20 and the Stock Option Agreement attached thereto (the "").Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings given in the Plan and, if not defined in the Plan, the Option Agreement.
                    
    
    
(
Participant
Shares
Company
Plan
                    
    
Option Agreement
 
 
Participant acknowledges that Participant has received, read and understood the Plan and the Option Agreement. Participant agrees to abide by and be bound by their terms and conditions. Participant understands that Participant may suffer adverse tax consequences as a result of Participant's purchase or disposition of the Shares. Participant represents that Participant has consulted with any tax consultants Participant deems advisable in connection with the purchase or disposition of the Shares and that Participant is not relying on the Company for any tax advice. The Plan and Option Agreement are incorporated herein by reference. This Exercise Notice, the Plan and the Option Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Participant with respect to the subject matter hereof.
 

Exhibit 10(iii).30
AUTOMATIC
Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the ""), hereby grants to the holder listed below (""), an option to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), set forth below (the "") at the price set forth below (the ""). This Option is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as (the "") and the Plan, each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this Stock Option Grant Notice (the "").
Company
Plan
Participant
Stock
Shares
Option
Exhibit A
Stock Option Agreement
Grant Notice
 
 
By his or her signature below, Participant agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Stock Option Agreement and this Grant Notice. Participant has reviewed the Stock Option Agreement, the Plan and this Grant Notice in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Grant Notice and fully understands all provisions of this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan. Participant hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions arising under or relating to the Plan, this Grant Notice or the Stock Option Agreement.
 
 
AUTOMATIC
Pursuant to the Stock Option Grant Notice (the "") to which this Stock Option Agreement (this "") is attached, Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), has granted to Participant an option to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), specified in the Grant Notice, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the ""), the Grant Notice and this Agreement.
Grant Notice
Agreement
Company
Stock
Plan
1.1 . Capitalized terms not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Grant Notice or, if not defined therein, the Plan.
Defined Terms
1.2 . The Option is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan which are incorporated herein by reference.
Incorporation of Terms of Plan
2.1 . In consideration of Participant's agreement to remain in the service of the Company and for other good and valuable consideration, effective as of the "Grant Date" set forth in the Grant Notice (the ""), the Company irrevocably grants to Participant an option to purchase any part or all of an aggregate of the number of shares of Stock set forth in the Grant Notice, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, the Grant Notice and this Agreement. The Option shall be a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
Grant of Option
Grant Date
2.2 . The exercise price of the shares of Stock subject to the Option shall be as set forth in the Grant Notice, without commission or other charge; , , that the exercise price per share of Stock subject to the Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Grant Date.
Exercise Price
provided
however
2.3 . In consideration of the grant of the Option by the Company, Participant agrees to render faithful and efficient services as a member of the Board. Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer upon Participant any right to continue in service as a Board member.
Consideration to the Company; No Right to Continue in Service
 
3.1 .
Commencement of Exercisability
(a) Subject to Sections 3.2 and 3.3, the Option shall become vested and exercisable in such amounts and at such times as are set forth in the Grant Notice.
(b) No portion of the Option which has not become vested and exercisable at the date of Participant's Termination of Directorship shall thereafter become vested and exercisable, except as may be otherwise provided by the Administrator or as set forth in a written agreement between the Company and Participant.
3.2 . The installments provided for in the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice are cumulative. Each such installment which becomes vested and exercisable pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice shall remain vested and exercisable until it becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3.
Duration of Exercisability
3.3 . The Option may not be exercised to any extent by anyone after the first to occur of the following events:
Expiration of Option
(a) The expiration of ten years from the Grant Date;
(b) The expiration of 12 months following the date of Participant's death;
(c) The expiration of 12 months following the date of Participant's Termination of Directorship by reason of Participant's "permanent and total disability" (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code); or
(d) The expiration of three months following the date of Participant's Termination of Directorship for any reason other than Participant's death or Participant's "permanent and total disability" (as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), unless Participant dies within such three-month period.
4.1 . Except as provided in Sections 5.2(b) and 5.2(c), during the lifetime of Participant, only Participant may exercise the Option or any portion thereof. After the death of Participant, any exercisable portion of the Option may, prior to the time when the Option becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3, be exercised by Participant's personal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Participant's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
Person Eligible to Exercise
4.2 . Any exercisable portion of the Option or the entire Option, if then wholly exercisable, may be exercised in whole or in part at any time prior to the time when the Option or portion thereof becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3; ,, that each partial exercise shall be for not less than 100 shares (or, if less, the maximum number of shares for which the Option is vested and exercisable at such time) and shall be for whole shares only.
Partial Exercise
provided
however
 
4.3 . The Option, or any exercisable portion thereof, may be exercised solely by delivery to the Secretary of the Company or the Secretary's office of all of the following prior to the time when the Option or such portion thereof becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3:
Manner of Exercise
(a) An Exercise Notice in writing signed by Participant or any other person then entitled to exercise the Option or portion thereof, stating that the Option or portion thereof is thereby exercised, such notice complying with all applicable rules established by the Administrator. Such notice shall be substantially in the form attached as to the Grant Notice (or such other form as is prescribed by the Administrator);
Exhibit B
(b) The receipt by the Company of full payment for the shares with respect to which the Option or portion thereof is exercised, including payment of any applicable withholding tax, which may be in one or more of the forms of consideration permitted under Section 4.4;
(c) Such representations and documents as the Administrator, in its discretion, deems necessary or advisable to effect compliance with all applicable provisions of the Securities Act and any other federal, state or foreign securities laws or regulations. The Administrator may, in its discretion, also take whatever additional actions it deems appropriate to effect such compliance including, without limitation, placing legends on share certificates and issuing stop-transfer orders to transfer agents and registrars; and
(d) In the event the Option or portion thereof shall be exercised pursuant to Section 4.1 by any person or persons other than Participant, appropriate proof of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option.
4.4 . Payment of the exercise price shall be by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of Participant:
Method of Payment
(a) cash;
(b) check;
(c) to the extent permitted under applicable laws, delivery of a notice that Participant has placed a market sell order with a broker with respect to shares of Stock then issuable upon exercise of the Option, and that the broker has been directed to pay a sufficient portion of the net proceeds of the sale to the Company in satisfaction of the aggregate exercise price; , that payment of such proceeds is then made to the Company upon settlement of such sale;
provided
(d) with the consent of the Administrator, through the delivery of shares of Stock which have been owned by Participant for at least six months, duly endorsed for transfer to the Company with a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Option or exercised portion thereof; or
(e) any combination of the foregoing.
4.5 . The shares of Stock deliverable upon the exercise of the Option, or any portion thereof, may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have then been reacquired by the Company. Such shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any shares of Stock purchased upon the exercise of the Option or portion thereof prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions:
Conditions to Issuance of Shares
 
(a) The admission of such shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such Stock is then listed;
(b) The completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any federal, state or foreign law or under rulings or regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body, which the Administrator shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable;
(c) The obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any federal, state or foreign governmental agency which the Administrator shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable;
(d) The receipt by the Company of full payment for such shares, including payment of any applicable withholding tax, which may be in one or more of the forms of consideration permitted under Section 4.4;
(e) Unless a Registration Statement under the Securities Act is in effect with respect to the shares of Stock to be issued, the receipt of a written representation of Participant that the shares of Stock are being acquired by Participant for investment and with no present intention of selling or transferring them and that Participant will not sell or otherwise transfer the shares except in compliance with all applicable securities laws; and
(f) The lapse of such reasonable period of time following the exercise of the Option and the satisfaction of all other conditions to issuance as the Administrator may from time to time establish for reasons of administrative convenience.
4.6 . The holder of the Option shall not be, nor have any of the rights or privileges of, a stockholder of the Company in respect of any shares purchasable upon the exercise of any part of the Option unless and until such shares shall have been issued by the Company to such holder (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the shares are issued, except as provided in Section 11.3 of the Plan.
Rights as Stockholder
5.1 . The Administrator shall have the power to (a) interpret the Plan and this Agreement, (b) adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret, amend or revoke any such rules and (c) amend this Agreement, subject to Section 5.9. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Administrator in good faith shall be binding, conclusive and final upon Participant, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Administrator shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan, this Agreement or the Option. In its discretion, the Board may at any time and from time to time exercise any and all rights and duties of the Administrator under the Plan except with respect to matters which under Rule 16b-3 or Section 162(m) of the Code, or any regulations or rules issued thereunder, are required to be determined in the discretion of the Administrator.
Administration
 
5.2 .
Option Not Transferable
(a) Subject to Section 5.2(b), the Option may not be sold, pledged, assigned or transferred in any manner other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Neither the Option nor any interest or right therein or part thereof shall be liable for the debts, contracts or engagements of Participant or Participant's successors in interest or shall be subject to sale or other disposition by transfer, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such sale or other disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy), and any attempted sale or other disposition thereof shall be null and void and of no effect, except to the extent that such sale or other disposition is permitted by the preceding sentence.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, with the consent of the Administrator, the Option may be transferred to one or more Permitted Transferees, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in Section 11.1(b) of the Plan.
(c) Unless transferred to a Permitted Transferee in accordance with Section 5.2(b), during the lifetime of Participant, only Participant may exercise the Option or any portion thereof. Subject to such conditions and procedures as the Administrator may require, a Permitted Transferee may exercise the Option or any portion thereof during Participant's lifetime. After the death of Participant, any exercisable portion of the Option may, prior to the time when the Option becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3, be exercised by Participant's personal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Participant's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
5.3 .
Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Orders
(a) The share certificate or certificates evidencing the shares of Stock purchased hereunder shall be endorsed with any legends that may be required by any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws.
(b) Participant agrees that, in order to ensure compliance with the restrictions referred to herein, the Company may issue appropriate "stop transfer" instructions to its transfer agent, if any, and that, if the Company transfers its own securities, it may make appropriate notations to the same effect in its own records.
(c) The Company shall not be required: (i) to transfer on its books any shares of Stock that have been sold or otherwise transferred in violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement, or (ii) to treat as owner of such shares of Stock or to accord the right to vote or pay dividends to any purchaser or other transferee to whom such shares shall have been so transferred.
5.4 . The Company shall at all times during the term of the Option reserve and keep available such number of shares of Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement.
Shares to Be Reserved
5.5 . Any notice to be given under the terms of this Agreement to the Company shall be addressed to the Company in care of the Secretary of the Company at the address given beneath the signature of the Company's authorized officer on the Grant Notice, and any notice to be given to Participant shall be addressed to Participant at the address given beneath Participant's signature on the Grant Notice or at the last known address for Participant contained in the Company's records. By a notice given pursuant to this Section 5.5, either party may thereafter designate a different address for notices to be given to that party. Any notice which is required to be given to Participant shall, if Participant is then
Notices
 
deceased, be given to the person entitled to exercise Participant's Option pursuant to Section 4.1 by written notice under this Section 5.5. Any notice shall be deemed duly given when sent via email or enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper addressed as aforesaid, deposited (with postage prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Postal Service.
5.6 . Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Titles
5.7 . This Agreement shall be administered, interpreted and enforced under the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of laws principles thereof. Should any provision of this Agreement be determined by a court of law to be illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions shall nevertheless remain effective and shall remain enforceable.
Governing Law; Severability
5.8 . Participant acknowledges that the Plan is intended to conform to the extent necessary with all applicable federal, state and foreign securities laws (including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) and any and all regulations and rules promulgated thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan shall be administered, and the Option is granted and may be exercised, only in such a manner as to conform to such laws, rules and regulations. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Plan and this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such laws, rules and regulations.
Conformity to Securities Laws
5.9 . This Agreement may not be modified, amended or terminated, except by an instrument in writing, signed by a duly authorized representative of the Company and, to the extent any such modification, amendment or termination may adversely affect the rights of Participant or such other person as may be permitted to exercise the Option pursuant to Section 4.1, by Participant or such other person, except as otherwise provided under the terms of the Plan.
Amendments
5.10 . The Company may assign any of its rights under this Agreement to single or multiple assignees, and this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer herein set forth in Section 5.2, this Agreement shall be binding upon Participant and Participant's heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
5.11 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement, if Participant is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the Plan, the Option and this Agreement shall be subject to any additional limitations set forth in any applicable exemptive rule under Section 16 of the Exchange Act (including any amendment to Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act) that are requirements for the application of such exemptive rule. To the extent permitted by applicable law, this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such applicable exemptive rule.
Limitations Applicable to Section 16 Persons
5.12 . The Plan, the Grant Notice (including all Exhibits thereto) and this Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Participant with respect to the subject matter hereof, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in a written agreement between the Company or a Subsidiary and Participant.
Entire Agreement
 
Effective as of today, ,, 20, the undersigned "") hereby elects to exercise Participant's option to purchase the number of shares of common stock specified below (the "") of Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), under and pursuant to the Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the ""), the Stock Option Grant Notice dated as of , 20 and the Stock Option Agreement attached thereto (the "").Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings given in the Plan and, if not defined in the Plan, the Option Agreement.
                    
    
    
(
Participant
Shares
Company
Plan
                    
    
Option Agreement
 
Non-Qualified Stock Option
Type of Option:
Participant acknowledges that Participant has received, read and understood the Plan and the Option Agreement. Participant agrees to abide by and be bound by their terms and conditions. Participant understands that Participant may suffer adverse tax consequences as a result of Participant's purchase or disposition of the Shares. Participant represents that Participant has consulted with any tax consultants Participant deems advisable in connection with the purchase or disposition of the Shares and that Participant is not relying on the Company for any tax advice. The Plan and Option Agreement are incorporated herein by reference. This Exercise Notice, the Plan and the Option Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Participant with respect to the subject matter hereof.
 
 

Exhibit 10(iii).31
Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the ""), hereby grants to the holder listed below ("") the number of shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), set forth below (the ""). This Restricted Stock award is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement attached hereto as (the "") and the Plan, each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this Restricted Stock Award Grant Notice (the "").
Company
Plan
Holder
Stock
Shares
Exhibit A
Restricted Stock Agreement
Grant Notice
 
 
By his or her signature below, Holder agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Restricted Stock Agreement and this Grant Notice. Holder has reviewed the Restricted Stock Agreement, the Plan and this Grant Notice in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Grant Notice and fully understands all provisions of this Grant Notice, the Restricted Stock Agreement and the Plan. Holder hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions arising under or relating to the Plan, this Grant Notice or the Restricted Stock Agreement. If Holder is married, his or her spouse has signed the Consent of Spouse attached to this Grant Notice as .
Exhibit B
 
 
Pursuant to the Restricted Stock Award Grant Notice (the "") to which this Restricted Stock Award Agreement (this "") is attached, Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), has granted to Holder the number of shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), specified in the Grant Notice (the ""), upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Safeway Inc. 2007 Equity and Incentive Award Plan (the ""), the Grant Notice and this Agreement.
Grant Notice
Agreement
Company
Stock
Shares
Plan
1.1 . Capitalized terms not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Grant Notice or, if not defined therein, the Plan.
Defined Terms
1.2 . The Shares are subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan which are incorporated herein by reference.
Incorporation of Terms of Plan
2.1 . In consideration of Holder's agreement to remain in the service or employ of the Company or a Subsidiary and for other good and valuable consideration which the Committee has determined exceeds the aggregate par value of the Shares, effective as of the "Grant Date" set forth in the Grant Notice (the ""), the Company hereby agrees to issue to Holder the Shares, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, the Grant Notice and this Agreement.
Grant of Restricted Stock
Grant Date
2.2 . Subject to Section 2.3, the issuance of the Shares under this Agreement shall occur at the principal office of the Company simultaneously with the execution of the Grant Notice by the parties or on such other date as the Company and Holder shall agree (the ""). Subject to the provisions of Article IV, the Company shall issue the Shares (which shall be issued in Holder's name) on the Issuance Date.
Issuance of Shares
Issuance Date
2.3 . The Shares, or any portion thereof, may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have then been reacquired by the Company. Such Shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any Shares prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions:
Conditions to Issuance of Shares
(a) The admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which the Stock is then listed;
(b) The completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any federal, state or foreign law or under regulations or rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body, which the Administrator shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable
(c) The obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any federal, state or foreign governmental agency which the Administrator shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable;
(d) The receipt by the Company of full payment for all amounts which, under federal, state, local or foreign tax law, the Company (or other employer corporation) is required to withhold upon issuance of such Shares; and
(e) The lapse of such reasonable period of time following the satisfaction of all other conditions to issuance as the Administrator may from time to time establish for reasons of administrative convenience.
2.4 . Except as otherwise provided herein, upon delivery of the Shares to the escrow agent pursuant to Article IV, Holder shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to said Shares, subject to the restrictions herein, including the right to vote the Shares and to receive all dividends or other distributions paid or made with respect to the Shares; that any and all extraordinary cash dividends paid on such Shares and any and all shares of Stock, capital stock or other securities or property received by or distributed to Holder with respect to the Shares as a result of any stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, combination, reclassification or similar change in the capital structure of the Company shall also be subject to the Forfeiture Restriction (as defined in Section 3.1) and the restrictions on transfer in Section 3.4 until such restrictions on the underlying Shares lapse or are removed pursuant to this Agreement (or, if such Shares are no longer outstanding, until such time as such Shares would have been released from the Forfeiture Restriction pursuant to this Agreement). In addition, in the event of any merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization affecting the Shares, then any new, substituted or additional securities or other property (including money paid other than as a regular cash dividend) that is by reason of any such transaction received with respect to, in exchange for or in substitution of the Shares shall also be subject to the Forfeiture Restriction and the restrictions on transfer in Section 3.4 until such restrictions on the underlying Shares lapse or are removed pursuant to this Agreement (or, if such Shares are no longer outstanding, until such time as such Shares would have been released from the Forfeiture Restriction pursuant to this Agreement). Any such assets or other securities received by or distributed to Holder with respect to, in exchange for or in substitution of any Unreleased Shares (as defined in Section 3.3) shall be immediately delivered to the Company to be held in escrow pursuant to Article IV.
Rights as Stockholder
provided, however,
3.1 . Subject to the provisions of Section 3.2, upon Holder's Termination of Employment, Termination of Consultancy or Termination of Directorship, as applicable, for any or no reason, all of the Unreleased Shares (as defined in Section 3.3) shall thereupon be forfeited immediately and without any further action by the Company (the ""). Upon the occurrence of such a forfeiture, the Company shall become the legal and beneficial owner of the Shares being forfeited and all rights and interests therein or relating thereto, and the Company shall have the right to retain and transfer to its own name the number of Shares being forfeited by Holder. In the event any of the Unreleased Shares are forfeited under this Section 3.1, any cash, cash equivalents, assets or securities received by or distributed to Holder with respect to, in exchange for or in substitution of such Shares and held by the escrow agent pursuant to Section 4.1 and the Joint Escrow Instructions shall be promptly transferred by the escrow agent to the Company.
Forfeiture Restriction
Forfeiture Restriction
3.2 . The Shares shall be released from the Forfeiture Restriction as indicated in the Grant Notice or, if earlier,
Release of Shares from Forfeiture Restriction; Acceleration upon Change in Control
 
upon the occurrence of a Change in Control; provided, however, that in no event shall the Forfeiture Restriction lapse as to any additional Shares following Holder's Termination of Employment, Termination of Consultancy or Termination of Directorship, as applicable. Any of the Shares released from the Forfeiture Restriction shall thereupon be released from the restrictions on transfer under Section 3.4. In the event any of the Shares are released from the Forfeiture Restriction, any cash, cash equivalents, assets or securities received by or distributed to Holder with respect to, in exchange for or in substitution of such Shares and held by the escrow agent pursuant to Section 4.1 and the Joint Escrow Instructions shall be promptly transferred by the escrow agent to Holder.
3.3 . Any of the Shares which, from time to time, have not yet been released from the Forfeiture Restriction are referred to herein as
Unreleased Shares
"
Unreleased Shares
."
3.4 . Unless otherwise permitted by the Administrator pursuant to the Plan, no Unreleased Shares or any dividends or other distributions thereon or any interest or right therein or part thereof, shall be liable for the debts, contracts or engagements of Holder or Holder's successors in interest or shall be subject to sale or other disposition by transfer, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such sale or other disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy), and any attempted sale or other disposition thereof shall be null and void and of no effect.
Restrictions on Transfer
4.1 . To insure the availability of the Unreleased Shares for delivery in the event of forfeiture of such Shares by Holder pursuant to Section 3.1, Holder hereby appoints the Secretary of the Company, or any other person designated by the Administrator as escrow agent, as Holder's attorney-in-fact to assign and transfer unto the Company, such Unreleased Shares, if any, forfeited by Holder pursuant to Section 3.1 and any cash, cash equivalents, assets or securities received by or distributed to Holder with respect to, in exchange for or in substitution of such Unreleased Shares, and shall, upon execution of this Agreement, deliver and deposit with the Secretary of the Company, or such other person designated by the Administrator, any share certificates representing the Unreleased Shares, together with the Stock Assignment duly endorsed in blank, attached as to the Grant Notice. The Unreleased Shares and stock assignment shall be held by the Secretary of the Company, or such other person designated by the Administrator, in escrow, pursuant to the Joint Escrow Instructions of the Company and Holder attached as to the Grant Notice, until the Unreleased Shares are forfeited by Holder as provided in Section 3.1, until such Unreleased Shares are released from the Forfeiture Restriction, or until such time as this Agreement no longer is in effect. Upon release of the Unreleased Shares from the Forfeiture Restriction, the escrow agent shall deliver to Holder the certificate or certificates representing such Shares in the escrow agent's possession belonging to Holder in accordance with the terms of the Joint Escrow Instructions attached as to the Grant Notice, and the escrow agent shall be discharged of all further obligations hereunder; that the escrow agent shall nevertheless retain such certificate or certificates as escrow agent if so required pursuant to other restrictions imposed pursuant to this Agreement. If the Shares are held in book entry form, then such entry will reflect that the Shares are subject to the restrictions of this Agreement. If any cash, cash equivalents, assets or securities are paid, received by or distributed to Holder with respect to, in exchange for or in substitution of the Unreleased Shares and held by the escrow agent pursuant to Section 4.1 and the Joint Escrow Instructions, such cash, cash equivalents, assets or securities shall also be subject to the restrictions set forth in this Agreement and held in escrow pending release of the Unreleased Shares with respect to which such cash, cash equivalents, assets or securities were paid, received or distributed from the Forfeiture Restriction.
Escrow of Shares
Exhibit C
Exhibit D
Exhibit D
provided, however,
 
4.2 . Holder hereby authorizes and directs the Secretary of the Company, or such other person designated by the Administrator, to transfer the Unreleased Shares which have been forfeited by Holder to the Company, and any cash, cash equivalents, assets or securities received by or distributed to Holder with respect to, in exchange for or in substitution of such Unreleased Shares.
Transfer of Forfeited Shares
4.3 . The Company, or its designee, shall not be liable for any act it may do or omit to do with respect to holding the Shares in escrow while acting in good faith and in the exercise of its judgment.
No Liability for Actions in Connection with Escrow
5.1 . The Administrator shall have the power to (a) interpret the Plan and this Agreement, (b) adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret, amend or revoke any such rules and (c) amend this Agreement, subject to Section 5.8. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Administrator in good faith shall be binding, conclusive and final upon Holder, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Administrator shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan, this Agreement or the Shares. In its discretion, the Board may at any time and from time to time exercise any and all rights and duties of the Administrator under the Plan, except with respect to matters which under Rule 16b-3 or Section 162(m) of the Code, or any regulations or rules issued thereunder, are required to be determined in the discretion of the Administrator
Administration
5.2 .
Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Orders
(a) Any share certificate(s) evidencing the Shares issued hereunder shall be endorsed with the following legend and any other legend(s) that may be required by any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws:
THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO FORFEITURE IN FAVOR OF THE COMPANY AND MAY BE TRANSFERRED ONLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF A RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND THE STOCKHOLDER, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE WITH THE SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY.
(b) Holder agrees that, in order to ensure compliance with the restrictions referred to herein, the Company may issue appropriate "stop transfer" instructions to its transfer agent, if any, and that, if the Company transfers its own securities, it may make appropriate notations to the same effect in its own records.
(c) The Company shall not be required: (i) to transfer on its books any Shares that have been sold or otherwise transferred in violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement, or (ii) to treat as owner of such Shares or to accord the right to vote or pay dividends to any purchaser or other transferee to whom such Shares shall have been so transferred.
 
5.3 . The Administrator may adjust the Unreleased Shares in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.3 of the Plan.
Adjustments
5.4 . Any notice to be given under the terms of this Agreement to the Company shall be addressed to the Company in care of the Secretary of the Company, and any notice to be given to Holder shall be addressed to Holder at the address given beneath Holder's signature on the Grant Notice or at the last known address for Holder contained in the Company's records. By a notice given pursuant to this Section 5.4, either party may hereafter designate a different address for notices to be given to that party. Any notice shall be deemed duly given when sent via email or enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper addressed as aforesaid, deposited (with postage prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Postal Service.
Notices
5.5 . Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Titles
5.6 . This Agreement shall be administered, interpreted and enforced under the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of laws principles thereof. Should any provision of this Agreement be determined by a court of law to be illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions shall nevertheless remain effective and shall remain enforceable.
Governing Law; Severability
5.7 . Holder acknowledges that the Plan is intended to conform to the extent necessary with all applicable federal, state and foreign securities laws (including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) and any and all regulations and rules promulgated thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan shall be administered, and the Shares are to be issued, only in such a manner as to conform to such laws, rules and regulations. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Plan and this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such laws, rules and regulations.
Conformity to Securities Laws
5.8 . This Agreement may not be modified, amended or terminated, except by an instrument in writing, signed by a duly authorized representative of the Company and, to the extent any such modification, amendment or termination may adversely affect Holder's rights under this Agreement, by Holder, except as otherwise provided under the terms of the Plan.
Amendments
5.9 . The Company may assign any of its rights under this Agreement to single or multiple assignees, and this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer herein set forth, this Agreement shall be binding upon Holder and Holder's heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
5.10 . Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer upon Holder any right to continue in the employ or service of the Company or any Subsidiary or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company and its Subsidiaries, which rights are hereby expressly reserved, to discharge or terminate the services of Holder at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in a written agreement between the Company or a Subsidiary and Holder.
No Employment Rights
5.11 . Holder has reviewed with Holder's own tax advisors the federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences of this investment and the transactions contemplated by the Grant Notice and this Agreement. Holder is relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company or any of its agents. Holder understands that Holder (and not the Company) shall be responsible for Holder's own tax liability that may arise as a result of this investment or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Holder understands that Holder will recognize ordinary income for
Taxes
 
federal income tax purposes under Section 83 of the Code as the restrictions applicable to the Unreleased Shares lapse. In this context, "restriction" includes the Forfeiture Restriction. Holder understands that Holder may elect to be taxed for federal income tax purposes at the time the Shares are issued rather than as and when the Forfeiture Restriction lapses by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service no later than 30 days following the date of purchase. A form of election under Section 83(b) of the Code is attached to the Grant Notice as .
Exhibit E
HOLDER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS HOLDER'S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY AND NOT THE COMPANY'S TO TIMELY FILE THE ELECTION UNDER SECTION 83(B), EVEN IF HOLDER REQUESTS THE COMPANY OR ITS REPRESENTATIVES TO MAKE THIS FILING ON HOLDER'S BEHALF.
5.12 .
Tax Withholding
(a) The Company shall be entitled to require payment of any sums required by federal, state or local tax law to be withheld with respect to the transfer of the Shares or the lapse of the Forfeiture Restriction with respect to the Shares, or any other taxable event related thereto. The Company may permit Holder to make such payment in one or more of the forms specified below:
(i) by cash or check made payable to the Company;
(ii) by the deduction of such amount from other compensation payable to Holder;
(iii) by tendering Shares which are not subject to the Forfeiture Restriction and which have a then current Fair Market Value not greater than the amount necessary to satisfy the Company's withholding obligation based on the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal, state and local income tax and payroll tax purposes; or
(iv) in any combination of the foregoing.
(b) In the event Holder fails to provide timely payment of all sums required by the Company pursuant to Section 5.12(a), the Company shall have the right and option, but not obligation, to treat such failure as an election by Holder to provide all or any portion of such required payment by means of tendering Shares in accordance with Section 5.12(a)(iii).
5.13 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement, if Holder is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the Plan, the Shares and this Agreement shall be subject to any additional limitations set forth in any applicable exemptive rule under Section 16 of the Exchange Act (including any amendment to Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act) that are requirements for the application of such exemptive rule. To the extent permitted by applicable law, this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such applicable exemptive rule.
Limitations Applicable to Section 16 Persons
5.14 . The Plan, the Grant Notice (including all Exhibits thereto) and this Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Holder with respect to the subject matter hereof, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in a written agreement between the Company or a Subsidiary and Holder.
Entire Agreement
 
I,, spouse of , have read and approve the foregoing Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the ""). In consideration of issuing to my spouse the shares of common stock of Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), set forth in the Restricted Stock Award Grant Notice and Restricted Stock Award Agreement, I hereby appoint my spouse as my attorney-in-fact in respect to the exercise of any rights under the Agreement and agree to be bound by the provisions of the Agreement insofar as I may have any rights in said Agreement or any shares of the common stock of the Company issued pursuant thereto under the community property laws or similar laws relating to marital property in effect in the state of our residence as of the date of the signing of the foregoing Agreement.
                                                 
                                                 
Agreement
Company
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, , hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto SAFEWAY INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), shares of the common stock of the Company, standing in its name on the books of said corporation represented by Certificate No. herewith and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint to transfer the said stock on the books of the within named corporation with full power of substitution in the premises.
                    
Company
                    
    
                    
This Stock Assignment may be used only in accordance with the Restricted Stock Award Grant Notice between the Company and the undersigned dated , 20 and the Restricted Stock Award Agreement attached thereto.
                    
    
 
Please do not fill in the blanks other than the signature line. The purpose of this assignment is to enable the Company to enforce the Forfeiture Restriction as set forth in the Agreement, without requiring additional signatures on the part of Holder.
INSTRUCTIONS:
,
                    
    
Secretary
Safeway Inc.
5918 Stoneridge Mall Road
Pleasanton, CA 94588-3229
Ladies and Gentlemen:
As escrow agent (the "") for both Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and the undersigned recipient of stock of Safeway (the ""), you are hereby authorized and directed to hold in escrow the documents delivered to you pursuant to the terms of that certain Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the "") between Safeway and the undersigned (the ""), including the stock certificate and the Stock Assignment, in accordance with the following instructions:
Escrow Agent
Safeway
Holder
Agreement
Escrow
1. In the event of (a) forfeiture by Holder of any of the shares owned by Holder pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Agreement (the ""), or (b) an election (or deemed election) by Holder to tender shares owned by Holder which are not subject to the Forfeiture Restriction to satisfy the Company's tax withholding obligation pursuant to Section 5.12 of the Agreement, Safeway and/or any assignee of Safeway (referred to collectively for convenience herein as the "") shall give to Holder and you a written notice specifying the number of shares of stock forfeited or tendered and the date of forfeiture or tender. Holder and the Company hereby irrevocably authorize and direct you to effect the forfeiture or tender contemplated by such notice in accordance with the terms of said notice.
Forfeiture Restriction
Company
2. As of the date of forfeiture or tender indicated in such notice, you are directed (a) to date the stock assignments necessary for the forfeiture/tender and transfer in question, (b) to fill in the number of shares being forfeited/tendered and transferred, and (c) to deliver the same, together with the certificate evidencing the shares of stock to be forfeited/tendered and transferred, to the Company or its assignee.
3. Holder irrevocably authorizes the Company to deposit with you any certificates evidencing shares of stock to be held by you hereunder and any additions and substitutions to said shares as described in the Agreement. Holder does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint you as Holder's attorney-in-fact and agent for the term of this escrow to execute with respect to such securities all documents necessary or appropriate to make such securities negotiable and to complete any transaction herein contemplated, including, but not limited to, the filing with any applicable state blue sky authority of any required applications for consent to, or notice of transfer of, the securities. Subject to the provisions of this paragraph 3, Holder shall exercise all rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company while the stock is held by you.
4. Upon written request of Holder, but no more than once per calendar year, unless the Forfeiture Restriction has been enforced, you will deliver to Holder a certificate or certificates representing so many shares of stock as are not then subject to the Forfeiture Restriction. Within 120 days after any voluntary or involuntary termination of Holder's services to the Company for any or no reason, you will deliver to Holder a certificate or certificates representing the aggregate number of shares held or issued pursuant to the Agreement and not forfeited pursuant to the Forfeiture Restriction.
5. If at the time of termination of this escrow you should have in your possession any cash, cash equivalents, documents, securities or other property belonging to Holder, you shall deliver all of the same to Holder and shall be discharged of all further obligations hereunder.
6. Your duties hereunder may be altered, amended, modified or revoked only by a writing signed by all of the parties hereto.
7. You shall be obligated only for the performance of such duties as are specifically set forth herein and may rely and shall be protected in relying or refraining from acting on any instrument reasonably believed by you to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties. You shall not be personally liable for any act you may do or omit to do hereunder as Escrow Agent or as attorney-in-fact for Holder while acting in good faith, and any act done or omitted by you pursuant to the advice of your own attorneys shall be conclusive evidence of such good faith.
8. You are hereby expressly authorized to disregard any and all warnings given by any of the parties hereto or by any other person or corporation, excepting only orders or process of courts of law and are hereby expressly authorized to comply with and obey orders, judgments or decrees of any court. In case you obey or comply with any such order, judgment or decree, you shall not be liable to any of the parties hereto or to any other person, firm or corporation by reason of such compliance, notwithstanding any such order, judgment or decree being subsequently reversed, modified, annulled, set aside, vacated or found to have been entered without jurisdiction.
9. You shall not be liable in any respect on account of the identity, authorities or rights of the parties executing or delivering or purporting to execute or deliver the Agreement or any documents or papers deposited or called for hereunder.
10. You shall not be liable for the expiration of any rights under any applicable federal, state, local or foreign statute of limitations or similar statute or regulation with respect to these Joint Escrow Instructions or any documents deposited with you.
11. You shall be entitled to employ such legal counsel and other experts as you may deem necessary properly to advise you in connection with your obligations hereunder, may rely upon the advice of such counsel and may pay such counsel reasonable compensation therefor.
12. Your responsibilities as Escrow Agent hereunder shall terminate if you shall cease to be an officer or agent of the Company or if you shall resign by written notice to each party. In the event of any such termination, the Company shall appoint a successor Escrow Agent.
13. If you reasonably require other or further instruments in connection with these Joint Escrow Instructions or obligations in respect hereto, the necessary parties hereto shall join in furnishing such instruments.
14. It is understood and agreed that should any dispute arise with respect to the delivery and/or ownership or right of possession of the securities held by you hereunder, you are authorized and directed to retain in your possession without liability to anyone all or any part of said securities until such disputes shall have been settled either by mutual written agreement of the parties concerned or by a final order, decree or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction after the time for appeal has expired and no appeal has been perfected, but you shall be under no duty whatsoever to institute or defend any such proceedings.
15. Any notice or other communication required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or sent by facsimile transmission, overnight air courier, or first class
 
certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to the parties at the addresses of the parties set forth at the end of these Joint Escrow Instructions or such other address as a party may designate by five days' advance written notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and communications shall be deemed to have been received unless otherwise set forth herein: (i) in the case of personal delivery, on the date of such delivery; (ii) in the case of facsimile transmission, on the date on which the sender receives electronic confirmation that such notice was received by the addressee; (iii) in the case of overnight air courier, on the second business day following the day sent, with receipt confirmed by the courier; and (iv) in the case of mailing by first class certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, on the fifth business day following such mailing.
16. By signing these Joint Escrow Instructions, you become a party hereto only for the purpose of said Joint Escrow Instructions; you do not become a party to the Agreement.
17. This instrument shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto, and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
18. These Joint Escrow Instructions shall be governed by, and interpreted and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed these Joint Escrow Instructions as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
These instructions are provided to assist you if you choose to make an election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, with respect to the shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Safeway Inc. transferred to you. .
Please consult with your personal tax advisor as to whether an election of this nature will be in your best interests in light of your personal tax situation
The executed original of the Section 83(b) election must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service not later than 30 days after the date the shares were transferred to you. PLEASE NOTE: There is no remedy for failure to file on time. The steps outlined below should be followed to ensure the election is mailed and filed correctly and in a timely manner. ALSO, PLEASE NOTE: If you make the Section 83(b) election, the election is irrevocable.
 
 
 
 
 
Please consult your personal tax advisor for the address of the office of the Internal Revenue Service to which you should mail your election form.
The undersigned taxpayer hereby elects, pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, to include in taxpayer's gross income for the current taxable year the amount of any compensation taxable to taxpayer in connection with taxpayer's receipt of shares (the "") of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "").
Shares
Company
 
__________________________________________
__________________________________________
__________________________________________
SSN:
                                                                           
The name, address and taxpayer identification number of the taxpayer's spouse are (complete if applicable):
__________________________________________
__________________________________________
__________________________________________
SSN:
                                                                           
 
shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.
                    
 
 
 
The Shares may not be transferred and are subject to forfeiture if taxpayer's employment or service with the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries terminates for any reason. The forfeiture restriction applicable to the Shares will lapse in a series of cumulative installments of % each on , 20, , 20, , 20 and , 20 or, if earlier, upon liquidation or dissolution of the Company or the occurrence of a qualifying change in ownership or control of the Company.
            
    
                    
    
                    
    
                    
    
                    
    
 
 
 
Dated: , 20 Taxpayer Signature
                    
    
                                                                         
The undersigned spouse of Taxpayer joins in this election. (Complete if applicable).
Dated: , 20 Spouse's Signature
                    
    
                                                                         
VIA CERTIFIED MAIL
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
Internal Revenue Service
[Address where taxpayer files returns]
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Enclosed please find an original and one copy of an Election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, being made by the taxpayer referenced above. Please acknowledge receipt of the enclosed materials by stamping the enclosed copy of the Election and returning it to me in the self-addressed stamped envelope provided herewith.
 
Enclosures
cc:        Safeway Inc.

Exhibit 10(iii).32
 
 
Safeway Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), previously adopted The Capital Performance Bonus Plan for Executive Officers of Safeway Inc. (the "Plan"). The objectives of the Plan are to motivate and reward the Company's executive officers and key employees to produce results that increase shareholder value and to encourage individual and team behavior that helps the Company achieve both short and long-term corporate objectives.
 
The Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety, effective as of March 7, 2007 (the "Amendment and Restatement Effective Date"). Bonus awards granted under the Plan prior to March 7, 2007 shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as in effect immediately prior to the Amendment and Restatement Date.
 
 
 
- .  "Base Compensation" of a Participant shall mean the Participant's regular base salary, excluding bonuses, expense reimbursements, moving expenses, fringe benefits, stock options, restricted stock and other stock-based awards, and other payments which are not considered part of regular base salary, determined without regard to any reduction under a plan subject to Section 125 or 401(k) of the Code or any deferral under a non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
Section 1.1
Base Compensation
 
- .  "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Section 1.2
Board
 
- .  "CEO" shall mean the chief executive officer of the Company.
Section 1.3
CEO
 
- .  "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Section 1.4
Code
 
- .  "Committee" shall mean the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board, or another committee or subcommittee of the Board, appointed as provided in Section 6.1.
Section 1.5
Committee
 
- .  "Eligible Project" shall mean either a First Year Eligible Project or a Third Year Eligible Project. "First Year Eligible Project" shall mean a new store or remodel project which (a) has been (or is expected to be) completed during the Performance Period or the most recently completed fiscal year of the Company immediately preceding the Performance Period (unless otherwise determined by the Committee) and (b) with respect to which an audit has been (or is expected to be) completed during the Performance Period. "Third Year Eligible Project" shall mean a new store or remodel project with respect to which an audit has been (or is expected to be) completed during the second fiscal year of the Company following the fiscal year during which such project was audited as a First Year Eligible Project.
Section 1.6
Eligible Project
 
- .  "Participant" shall mean any executive officer or key employee of the Company who has been selected by the Committee to receive a bonus award under the Plan.
Section 1.7
Participant
 
- .  "Performance Criteria" shall mean the criteria (and adjustments) that the Committee selects for a bonus award for purposes of establishing the Performance Goal or Performance Goals for a Performance Period, determined as follows:
Section 1.8
Performance Criteria
 
(a)    The Performance Criteria that shall be used to establish Performance Goals are limited to operating profit and return on invested capital, either of which may be measured either in absolute terms or as compared to any incremental increase or decrease or as compared to results of a peer group.
 
(b)    The Committee may, in its discretion, at the time of grant, specify in the bonus award that one or more objectively determinable adjustments shall be made to one or more of the Performance Goals for one or more of the items of gain, loss, profit or expense: (i) determined to be extraordinary or unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence, (ii) related to the disposal or discontinued operation of a segment of a business (whether or not such segment qualifies as a "business segment" under GAAP), (iii) related to a change in accounting principle under GAAP, and (iv) attributable to the business operations of any entity acquired by the Company (or a subsidiary of the Company) during the fiscal year.
 
- .  "Performance Goals" shall mean, for a Performance Period, one or more goals established in writing by the Committee for the Performance Period based upon one or more Performance Criteria. Depending on the Performance Criteria used to establish such Performance Goals, the Performance Goals may be expressed in terms of overall Company performance or the performance of a division, business unit, store or Eligible Project. The achievement of each Performance Goal (and any adjustments thereto) shall be determined in accordance with GAAP to the extent applicable or, if not applicable, in accordance with the Company's accounting practices, as in effect on the first day of such Performance Period.
Section 1.9
Performance Goals
 
- .  "Performance Period" shall mean one or more periods of time, which may be of varying and overlapping durations, as the Committee may select, over which the attainment of one or more Performance Goals will be measured for the purpose of determining a Participant's right to, and the payment of, a bonus award.
Section 1.10
Performance Period
 
 
 
- .    Any executive officer or key employee selected by the Committee may be granted one or more bonus awards under the Plan for one or more Performance Periods. For each Performance Period established by the Committee, the Committee shall establish one or more objectively determinable Performance Goals. At the time a bonus award is granted pursuant to this Section 2.1, the Committee shall specify the maximum bonus amount ("Bonus Amount") to be paid upon the achievement of one or more of the Performance Goals established by the Committee for the Performance Period, which maximum
Section 2.1
Bonus Awards
 
Bonus Amount may not exceed 30% of the Participant's Base Compensation payable during the Performance Period.
 
- .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.1, the maximum aggregate amount payable pursuant to all bonus awards granted to the CEO under the Plan during any calendar year shall not exceed $500,000 and the maximum aggregate amount payable pursuant to all bonus awards granted to a Participant (other than the CEO) under the Plan during any calendar year shall not exceed $350,000.
Section 2.2
Maximum Bonus Amounts
 
- .  Following the completion of each Performance Period and prior to payment of any bonus award granted under the Plan with respect to such Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing whether the applicable Performance Goals have been achieved for such Performance Period. In determining a Participant's actual bonus amount, the Committee shall have the right to reduce (but not to increase) the amount payable at a given level of performance to take into account the recommendations of the CEO and such additional factors, if any, that the Committee may deem relevant to the assessment of individual or corporate performance for the Performance Period.
Section 2.3
Certification; Negative Discretion
 
 - .  The Plan shall not be the exclusive means for the Company to award incentive compensation to Participants. No executive officer or key employee of the Company has a guaranteed right to any discretionary bonus as a substitute for a bonus award under the Plan in the event that Performance Goals are not met or that the Company's stockholders fail to approve or reapprove the Plan.
S 2.4
ECTION
Other Incentive Awards
 
 
 
- .  Each bonus award shall be paid in cash.
Section 3.1
Form of Payment
 
- .
Section 3.2
Timing of Payment
 
(a)    Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, each bonus award shall be paid as soon as practicable after the Committee certifies in writing that the Performance Goals specified for such bonus award were in fact satisfied.
 
(b)    Bonus award payments are not intended to constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code and are intended to satisfy the "short-term deferral" exemption under the Treasury Regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Code. Subject to subsection 3.2(a), and to the extent necessary to cause the bonus awards under the Plan to satisfy the "short-term deferral" exemption under the Treasury Regulations pursuant to Section 409A of the Code, bonus award payments under the Plan shall be made not later than the later of (i) the fifteenth day of the third month following the Participant's first taxable year in which the right to receive payment of the Bonus Amount is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, or (ii) the fifteenth day of the third month following the Company's first taxable year in which the right to receive payment of the Bonus Amount is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
 
- .  All amounts payable hereunder shall be subject to applicable federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding.
Section 3.3
Taxes
 
 
 
- .  The Committee, in its discretion, may determine whether a bonus award should qualify as performance-based compensation as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, and may take such actions which it may deem necessary to ensure that such bonus award will so qualify. Any such bonus award shall be subject to any additional limitations set forth in Section 162(m) of the Code (including any amendment to Section 162(m) of the Code) and any regulations or rulings issued thereunder that are requirements for qualifications as performance-based compensation as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, and the Plan shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements.
Section 4.1
Qualified Performance-Based Compensation
 
- .  With respect to any bonus award which the Committee determines should constitute qualified performance-based compensation as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, the applicable Performance Goals specified pursuant to Section 2.1 shall be established in writing no later than the ninetieth day following the commencement of the period of service to which the Performance Goals relate; provided, however, that in no event shall the Performance Goals be established after 25% of the period of service (as scheduled in good faith at the time the Performance Goals are established) has elapsed. The achievement of at least one Performance Goals established by the Committee shall be substantially uncertain at the time such Performance Goal is established in writing.
Section 4.2
Performance Goals
 
 
 
S 5.1 - .  If a Participant's employment with the Company is terminated for any reason other than death, disability or retirement prior to payment of any bonus award granted under the Plan, all of the Participant's rights under the Plan shall terminate and the Participant shall not have any right to receive any further payments with respect to any bonus award granted under the Plan. The Committee may, in its discretion, determine what portion, if any, of the Participant's bonus award granted under the Plan shall be paid if the Participant's employment has been terminated by reason of death, disability or retirement.
ECTION
Terminations
 
 
 
- .
Section 6.1
Committee
 
(a)    The Committee shall consist solely of two or more persons, each of whom is an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, appointed by and holding office at the pleasure of the Board.
 
(b)    Appointment of Committee members shall be effective upon acceptance of appointment. Committee members may resign at any time by delivering written notice to the Board. Vacancies in the Committee shall be filled by the Board.
 
- .  It shall be the duty of the Committee to conduct the general administration of the Plan in accordance with its provisions. The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Plan, and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret, amend or revoke any such rules. In its discretion, the Board may at any time and from time to time exercise any and all rights and duties of the Committee under the Plan, except with respect to matters which under Section 162(m) of the Code are required to be determined in the discretion of the Committee.
Section 6.2
Duties and Powers of Committee
 
- .  The Committee shall act by a majority of its members in office. The Committee may act either by vote at a meeting or by a memorandum or other written instrument signed by all members of the Committee.
Section 6.3
Majority Rule; Unanimous Written Consent
 
 
 
- .  The Plan does not constitute a promise to pay and may be wholly or partially amended or otherwise modified, suspended or terminated at any time or from time to time by the Board. However, with respect to bonus awards granted under the Plan which the Committee determines should constitute qualified performance-based compensation as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, no action of the Board or the Committee may modify the Performance Goals applicable to any such bonus award, to the extent such modification would cause the bonus award to fail to constitute qualified performance-based compensation.
Section 7.1
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
 
- .  The Plan shall be submitted for the approval of the Company's stockholders. The Committee may grant bonus awards under the Plan at any time on or after the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date; provided, that no bonus amount shall be paid with respect to any bonus award granted under the Plan as amended and restated unless and until the Plan is approved by the Company's stockholders in accordance with Section 7.3.
Section 7.2
Effective Date
 
 - .
S 7.3
ECTION
Approval of Plan by Stockholders
 
(a)    The Plan shall be submitted for the approval of the Company's stockholders at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in calendar year 2007. In the event that the Plan is not so approved, the Plan, as in effect immediately prior to the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date, shall remain in effect.
 
(b)    The Plan shall be subject to reapproval by the stockholders of the Company not later than the first stockholder meeting that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which the stockholders last approved the Plan, as required under the Treasury Regulations pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code. In the event that the Plan is not so reapproved, no further bonus awards shall be granted under the Plan on or after the date of such stockholder meeting and any outstanding bonus award granted under the Plan shall be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and such bonus award.
 
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the Amended and Restated Capital Performance Bonus Plan for Executive Officers and Key Employees of Safeway Inc., as most recently approved by the Board of Directors of Safeway Inc. on March 27, 2007.
 
Executed on this 17th day of May, 2007.
 
 
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing Amended and Restated Capital Performance Bonus Plan for Executive Officers and Key Employees of Safeway Inc. was most recently approved by the stockholders of Safeway Inc. on May 16, 2007.
 
Executed on this 17th day of May, 2007.
 
 


