FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20070510135716.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On May 9, 2007, Safeway Inc. (the "Company") announced that Brian C. Cornell, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, has decided to leave the Company effective June 1, 2007. A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Cornell's departure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
Pleasanton, CA  (BUSINESS WIRE)  May 9, 2007  Safeway Inc. (NYSE:SWY) today announced that Brian Cornell, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, has decided to leave the company effective June 1, 2007 to actively pursue a search for the top leadership role at another company.
"Brian has contributed significantly to Safeway over the last three years and enhanced our ability to profitably build our sales," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO.
"He came to Safeway at a time of transformation, and has played a key role in our success," continued Burd. "His accomplishments include reorganizing and energizing our centralized marketing, merchandising and supply chain functions to improve their effectiveness, enhancing our capability to develop and utilize consumer and shopper insights, and building our brand. We are fortunate that he has built an outstanding team that is very well prepared to continue to build on our current momentum."
"I thoroughly enjoyed the last few years I spent at Safeway," said Brian Cornell. "I had the opportunity to work with a top notch executive team and to lead and develop a marketing team that is second to none. I depart Safeway as a huge fan of the strategy, the brand and the organization. While I am ready to pursue the next step in my career, I believe that Safeway is very well positioned to continue to thrive and grow for years to come."
Upon Cornell's departure, and until a successor is named, the marketing organization will report directly to Steve Burd.
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 100 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,755 stores in the United States and Canada and had annual sales of $40.2 billion in 2006. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.


