FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20070222091640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On February 22, 2007, we issued our earnings press release for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures  net income and net cash flow from operating activities  are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of "free cash flow" to GAAP cash flow for fiscal 2006 and 2005 and to the forecasted range for fiscal 2007 are also provided in the press release. Reconciliations of adjusted earnings per share to GAAP diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2006 and the fourth quarters of fiscal 2006 and 2005 are provided in the table below. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures provides information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
The exclusions included in "adjusted earnings per share" relate to store exit activities at our Texas stores, employee buyouts primarily in Dominick's and Northern California and various tax benefits. Management believes that excluding these items provides a useful financial measure that will facilitate comparisons of our operating results before, during and after such expenses or benefits are incurred, as well as facilitating comparisons of our performance with that of other companies that might not have the store exit costs, employee buyouts and tax benefits that we have experienced. Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our "adjusted earnings per share" as an indicator of our ongoing operating performance.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the enumerated non-cash items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, methodologies in calculating LIFO (income) expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that such store makes to operating performance.
 
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate "Adjusted EBITDA" as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
"Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt," "free cash flow" and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt and fund share repurchases that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities. A portion of the free cash flow that the Company generates in fiscal 2007 is expected to be spent on mandatory debt service requirements or other non-discretionary expenditures. Management is unable to estimate the effect that cash flow from payables related to third-party gift cards, net of receivables, will have on guidance for 2007 free cash flow, and therefore is not able to provide any reconciliation of 2007 free cash flow with respect to cash flow from payables related to third party gift cards, net of receivables.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on Safeway's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods indicated as a measure of liquidity. These measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and "free cash flow" differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
Additional limitations include:
 
 
 
 
Because of these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE TO ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts: Melissa Plaisance (925) 467-3136
Julie Hong (925) 467-3832
Pleasanton, CA  February 22, 2007
Results From Operations
Safeway Inc. today reported net income of $307.9 million ($0.69 per diluted share) for the fourth quarter of 2006. This compares with net income of $173.5 million ($0.39 per diluted share) for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005.
Net income in the fourth quarter of 2006 was increased by $0.08 per diluted share due to various favorable tax items. Net income in the fourth quarter of 2005 was reduced by a net $0.10 per diluted share for store exit activities, employee buyouts and the favorable resolution of various tax issues.
Sales and Other Revenue
Total sales increased 3.8% to $12.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to $12.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. Contributions from Lifestyle stores and strong perishable and non-perishable performance drove this increase. Identical-store sales, including and excluding fuel, increased 3.5% in the fourth quarter of 2006.
"Our fourth-quarter results demonstrate that our strategy continues to work well," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO. "By delivering superior perishables, completing more Lifestyle stores, making investments in price and promotion, controlling our costs, and delivering outstanding service, we are able to bring more to the table for our customers and our shareholders. We plan to continue to build on this momentum in 2007."
Gross Profit
Gross profit increased 2 basis points to 29.13% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to 29.11% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2005. Higher fuel sales (which have a lower gross margin) reduced gross profit by 15 basis points. The remaining 17 basis- point increase is the result of savings from product-sourcing and distribution initiatives and improved product mix, partly offset by investments in price and higher advertising expense.
Operating and Administrative Expense
Operating and administrative expense improved 122 basis points to 24.76% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2006 from 25.98% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, Safeway incurred pre-tax charges of $55.5 million for store exit activities related to the closure of 26 Texas stores and $37.5 million for employee buyouts ($0.12 per diluted share). Adjusting for these charges, operating and administrative expense improved 45 basis points in 2006. This improvement is primarily due to increased sales and reduced costs as a percentage of sales from workers' compensation and store labor.
Interest Expense
Interest expense was $121.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to $124.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. Indebtedness was lower in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to 2005, while average interest rates were higher.
Income Tax Expense
Income tax expense was $127.2 million, or 29.2% of pre-tax income in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to $94.6 million, or 35.3% of pre-tax income, in the fourth quarter of 2005. Income tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2006 included approximately $38.0 million of tax benefits ($0.08 per diluted share) due to the utilization of net operating loss carry forwards and various other favorable items. Income tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2005 included $7.3 million of tax benefits ($0.02 per diluted share) associated with the favorable resolution of certain tax issues.
Annual Results
Net income for the year ended 2006 was $870.6 million ($1.94 per diluted share) compared to $561.1 million ($1.25 per diluted share) in 2005. Sales increased 4.6% to $40.2 billion in 2006 from $38.4 billion in 2005 primarily because of Safeway's marketing strategy, Lifestyle store execution and increased fuel sales. Identical-store sales, excluding fuel, increased 3.3%.
Gross profit decreased 11 basis points to 28.82% of sales in 2006 from 28.93% of sales in 2005. Higher fuel sales reduced gross profit by 28 basis points. Excluding fuel, gross profit increased 17 basis points primarily because of improved shrink, benefits from product-sourcing initiatives and improved product mix, partly offset by investments in price and increased advertising expense.
Operating and administrative expense decreased 93 basis points to 24.84% of sales in 2006 from 25.77% of sales in 2005. The store exit activities and employee buyouts in 2005 reduced operating and administrative expense by 44 basis points. Higher fuel sales in 2006 reduced operating and administrative expense by 13 basis points. The remaining decline is primarily the result of increased sales and reduced costs as a percentage of sales from store labor, workers' compensation and pension expense.
 
Stock Repurchase
During the fourth quarter of 2006, Safeway purchased 3.7 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $28.84 per share and a total cost of $106 million (including commissions). For the year, Safeway purchased 12 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $26.53 per share and a total cost of $318.0 million (including commissions). The remaining board authorization for stock repurchases is $747 million.
Capital Expenditures
During 2006, Safeway invested $1.67 billion in capital expenditures. The company opened 17 new Lifestyle stores, completed 276 Lifestyle remodels and closed 31 stores. In 2007, the company expects to spend approximately $1.7 billion in capital expenditures, open approximately 25 new Lifestyle stores and complete approximately 275 Lifestyle remodels.
Cash Flow
Net cash flow from operating activities increased to $2,175.0 million in 2006 compared to $1,881.0 million in 2005 primarily because of higher net income.
Net cash flow used by investing activities, which consists principally of cash paid for property additions, increased to $1,734.7 million in 2006 from $1,313.5 million in 2005.
Net cash flow used by financing activities was $596.3 million in 2006 compared to $466.9 million in 2005. Safeway paid down $493.1 million of debt in 2006 compared to $444.9 million in 2005 and paid $96.0 million of dividends in 2006 compared to $44.9 million in 2005. The repurchase of $318.0 million of common stock in 2006 was offset by the $262.3 million income tax refund related to prior years' debt financing and $45.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
Guidance
Safeway confirms guidance for 2007 of $1.90 to $2.00 diluted earnings per share and free cash flow of $400 million to $600 million. Identical-store sales, excluding fuel, are expected to grow approximately 3.3%.
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 50 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,761 stores in the United States and Canada. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
Safeway Conference Call
Safeway's investor conference call discussing fourth-quarter results will be broadcast live over the Internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 AM PST February 22, 2007. Click on Webcast Events to access the live call. An on-demand webcast of the conference call will also be available for approximately one week following the live call.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements relate to, among other things, estimates of diluted earnings per share, identical-store sales, capital expenditures, free cash flow, financial and operating results, and Lifestyle stores. Forward-looking statements are indicated by words or phrases such as "guidance," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "plans," "continuing," "ongoing," and similar words or phrases and the negative of such words and phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in or contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include the following: general business and economic conditions in our operating regions, including consumer spending levels, currency valuations, population, employment and job growth in our markets; pricing pressures and competitive factors, which could include pricing strategies, store openings, remodels or acquisitions by our competitors; results of our programs to control or reduce costs, improve buying practices and control shrink; results of our programs to increase sales; results of our efforts to revitalize corporate brands; results of our programs to improve our perishables departments; results of our promotional programs; results of our programs to improve capital management; results of any on-going litigation in which we are involved or any litigation in which we may become involved; the ability to achieve satisfactory operating results in all geographic areas where we operate; changes in the financial performance of our equity investments; labor costs, including benefit plan costs and severance payments, or labor disputes that may arise from time to time and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions or are scheduled to expire in the near future; failure to fully realize or delay in realizing growth prospects for new business ventures including Blackhawk Network, Inc. ("Blackhawk"); legislative, regulatory, tax or judicial developments, including with respect to Blackhawk; the cost and stability of fuel, energy and other power sources; unanticipated events or changes in real estate matters, including acquisitions, dispositions and impairments; adverse weather conditions; performance in new business ventures or other opportunities that we pursue, including Blackhawk; the capital investment in and financial results from our Lifestyle stores; the rate of return on our pension assets; and the availability and terms of financing. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. Please refer to our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and subsequent Current Reports on Form 8-K, for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER STATISTICAL DATA
 
TABLE 2: RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
 
TABLE 3: RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
TABLE 4: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP CASH FLOW MEASURE TO FREE CASH FLOW
 
TABLE 5: SAME-STORE SALES INCREASES
 
 


