FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20080730175422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safeway Inc. is filing this amendment to Form 8-K, originally filed on July 29, 2008, to amend the XBRL exhibits to include the footnotes formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) from our Form 10-Q filing filed on July 17, 2008.
Attached as Exhibit 100 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A are the following materials from the Safeway Inc. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 14, 2008, filed on July 17, 2008, formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii) the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and (iv) related notes. Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the financial information contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited, and these are not the official publicly filed financial statements of Safeway Inc. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed version of the furnished documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions.
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, including Exhibit 100, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 







