FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20091015100111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of Safeway Inc., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On October 15, 2009, we issued our earnings press release for the third quarter of fiscal 2009. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures  net income and net cash flow from operating activities  are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of "free cash flow" to GAAP cash flow for the 12 and 36 weeks ended
 
September 12, 2009 and September 6, 2008 and to the forecasted range for fiscal 2009 are also provided in the press release. Given the rapid growth in the third-party gift card business and the highly seasonal nature of that business, with a significant portion of sales of third-party gift cards occurring in late December each year, management is unable to provide a meaningful estimate for payables related to third-party gift cards for 2009, and therefore is not able to provide a reconciliation of 2009 free cash flow to net cash flow from operating activities. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures provides information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the other enumerated items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, methodologies in calculating LIFO expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that such store makes to operating performance.
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate "Adjusted EBITDA" as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
"Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt," "free cash flow" and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt and fund share repurchases that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities. A portion of the free cash flow that we generate in fiscal 2009 is expected to be spent on mandatory debt service requirements or other non-discretionary expenditures.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods indicated as a measure of liquidity. These measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and "free cash flow" differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
 
Additional limitations include:
 
 
 
 
Because of these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Melissa Plaisance (925) 467-3136
Christiane Pelz (925) 467-3832
Pleasanton, CA  October 15, 2009
Results From Operations
Safeway Inc. today reported net income of $128.8 million ($0.31 per diluted share) for the third quarter of 2009 compared to net income of $199.7 million ($0.46 per diluted share) for the third quarter of 2008.
"Safeway's sales remained soft, driven largely by deflation in dairy, produce and meat, and a sluggish economy," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO. "However, we are encouraged that our household and transaction counts increased in the quarter, and that volume trends continue to improve. In addition, our year-to-date free cash flow of $865 million is up $366 million, or 73%, over last year."
"In this difficult economy, we are working diligently to lower costs and meet the needs of our customers with high quality products, lower everyday prices and attractive club card specials," added Burd.
Sales and Other Revenue
Total sales declined 7.0% to $9.5 billion in the third quarter of 2009 compared to $10.2 billion in the third quarter of 2008. This decline was the result of lower fuel sales (which was due primarily to lower fuel prices), a 3.0% decline in identical-store sales for the quarter, excluding fuel, and a decline in the Canadian exchange rate.
Gross Profit
Gross profit increased 78 basis points to 28.27% of sales in the third quarter of 2009 compared to 27.49% of sales in the third quarter of 2008. Excluding the 84 basis point impact from fuel sales, gross profit declined six basis points. This decline was largely the result of investments in everyday price and increased advertising, partly offset by lower LIFO expense and lower energy expense.
Operating and Administrative Expense
Operating and administrative expense declined $13.3 million to $2,396.0 million in the third quarter of 2009 from $2,409.3 million in the third quarter of 2008. However, due to lower sales, operating and administrative expense margin increased 164 basis points to 25.33% of sales in the third quarter of 2009 from 23.69% of sales in the third quarter of 2008. Excluding the 75 basis point impact of lower fuel sales in the third quarter of 2009, operating and administrative expense margin increased 89 basis points. This increase was primarily the result of decreased sales leverage, increased charges from property impairments and retirements and increased pension expense.
Interest Expense
Interest expense declined to $78.3 million in the third quarter of 2009 from $80.0 million in the third quarter of 2008 due to lower average borrowings, partly offset by higher average interest rates.
Income Tax Expense
Income tax expense was 36.0% of pre-tax income in both the third quarters of 2009 and 2008.
36-Week Results
Net income for the first 36 weeks of 2009 was $511.6 million ($1.21 per diluted share) compared to $627.4 million ($1.43 per diluted share) in the first 36 weeks of 2008.
The gross profit margin was 28.62% in the first 36 weeks of 2009 compared to 28.19% for the first 36 weeks of 2008. Operating and administrative expense margin was 25.36% in the first 36 weeks of 2009 compared to 24.10% in the first 36 weeks of 2008.
Stock Repurchases
During the third quarter of 2009, Safeway purchased 10.2 million shares of its common stock at an average cost of $18.84 per share and a total cost of $191.6 million (including commissions). During the first 36 weeks of 2009, Safeway purchased 23.1 million shares of its common stock at an average cost of $19.10 per share and a total cost of $441.8 million (including commissions). The remaining board authorization for stock repurchases at quarter-end was approximately $720 million.
Capital Expenditures
Safeway invested $157.2 million in capital expenditures in the third quarter of 2009. The company opened five new Lifestyle stores, completed 16 Lifestyle remodels and closed 10 stores. During the first 36 weeks of 2009, Safeway invested $602.8 million in capital expenditures, opened seven new Lifestyle stores, completed 62 Lifestyle remodels and closed 16 stores. For the year, the company expects to spend approximately $1.0 billion in capital expenditures, open about 10 new Lifestyle stores and complete approximately 85 Lifestyle remodels.
 
Cash Flow
Net cash flow provided by operating activities was $1,287.3 million in the first 36 weeks of 2009. This was essentially flat compared to $1,284.8 million of net cash flow provided by operating activities in the first 36 weeks of 2008.
Net cash flow used by investing activities declined to $627.5 million in the first 36 weeks of 2009 from $980.1 million in the first 36 weeks of 2008 because of reduced capital expenditures, partly offset by lower proceeds from the sale of property.
Net cash flow used by financing activities increased to $677.4 million in the first 36 weeks of 2009 compared to $209.4 million in the first 36 weeks of 2008 due primarily to a net reduction in borrowings and increased stock repurchases.
Guidance
Safeway is maintaining earnings guidance for the year 2009 of $1.70 - $1.90 per diluted share. Safeway is also maintaining free cash flow guidance for the year 2009 of $1.1 billion - $1.3 billion.
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 50 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,730 stores in the United States and Canada. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
Safeway Conference Call
Safeway's investor conference call discussing third-quarter results will be broadcast live over the Internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 a.m. PT on October 15, 2009. Click on Webcast Events to access the call. A replay will be available via webcast for approximately one week following the conference call.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements relate to, among other things, estimates of diluted earnings per share, identical-store sales, capital expenditures, free cash flow, financial and operating results, volume trends, and Lifestyle stores. Forward-looking statements are indicated by words or phrases such as "guidance," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "plans," "continuing," "ongoing," and similar words or phrases and the negative of such words and phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in or contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include the following: general business and economic conditions in our operating regions, including the rate of inflation or deflation, consumer spending levels, currency valuations, population, employment and job growth and/or losses in our markets; pricing pressures and competitive factors, which could include pricing strategies, store openings, remodels or acquisitions by our competitors; results of our programs to control or reduce costs, improve buying practices and control shrink; results of our programs to increase sales; results of our continuing efforts to expand corporate brands; results of our programs to improve our perishables departments; results of our promotional programs; results of our capital program; results of our efforts to improve working capital; results of any ongoing litigation in which we are involved or any litigation in which we may become involved; the resolution of uncertain tax positions; the ability to achieve satisfactory operating results in all geographic areas where we operate; changes in the financial performance of our equity investments; labor costs, including benefit plan costs and severance payments, or labor disputes that may arise from time to time and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions or are scheduled to expire in the near future; failure to fully realize or delay in realizing growth prospects for new business ventures including Blackhawk Network Holdings, Inc. ("Blackhawk"); legislative, regulatory, tax, accounting or judicial developments, including with respect to Blackhawk; the cost and stability of fuel, energy and other power sources; the impact of the cost of fuel on gross margin and identical-store sales; discount rates used in actuarial calculations for pension obligations and self-insurance reserves; the rate of return on our pension assets; the availability and terms of financing, including interest rates and our ability to issue commercial paper or public debt or to borrow under our lines of credit as a result of current financial market conditions; adverse developments with regard to food and drug safety and quality issues or concerns that may arise; loss of a key member of senior management; data security or other information technology issues that may arise; unanticipated events or changes in real estate matters, including acquisitions, dispositions and impairments; adverse weather conditions; performance in new business ventures or other opportunities that we pursue, including Blackhawk; and the capital investment in and financial results from our Lifestyle stores. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. Please refer to our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and subsequent Current Reports on Form 8-K, for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER STATISTICAL DATA
 
TABLE 2: RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
 
TABLE 3: RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
TABLE 4: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP CASH FLOW MEASURE TO FREE CASH FLOW*
 
 
 
 
TABLE 5: SAME-STORE SALES
 
 
 


