FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20090430100044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of Safeway Inc., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On April 30, 2009, we issued our earnings press release for the first quarter of fiscal 2009. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures  net income and net cash flow from operating activities  are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of "free cash flow" to GAAP cash flow for the 12 weeks ended March 28, 2009 and March 22, 2008 and to the forecasted range for fiscal 2009 are also provided in the press release. Given the rapid growth in the third-party gift card business and the highly seasonal nature of that business, with a significant portion of sales of third-party gift cards occurring in late December each year, management is unable to provide a meaningful estimate for payables related to third-party gift cards for 2009, and therefore is not able to provide a reconciliation of 2009 free cash flow to net cash flow from operating activities. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures provides information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the other enumerated items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, methodologies in calculating LIFO expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that such store makes to operating performance.
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate "Adjusted EBITDA" as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
"Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt," "free cash flow" and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt and fund share repurchases that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities. A portion of the free cash flow that we generate in fiscal 2009 is expected to be spent on mandatory debt service requirements or other non-discretionary expenditures.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods indicated as a measure of liquidity. These measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and "free cash flow" differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
 
Additional limitations include:
 
 
 
 
Because of these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Melissa Plaisance (925) 467-3136
Christiane Pelz (925) 467-3832
Pleasanton, CA  April 30, 2009
Results From Operations
Safeway Inc. today reported net income of $144.2 million ($0.34 per diluted share) for the first quarter of 2009 compared to net income of $193.4 million ($0.44 per diluted share) for the first quarter of 2008.
"As anticipated, our earnings this quarter were negatively impacted by the shift in holiday sales, a decline in the Canadian currency exchange rate, a decline in fuel margins and higher pension expense," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO.
"We continued to make price investments to address the needs of our customers in this difficult economic environment. As a result, we saw an increase in the number of sales transactions and an improving trend in market share for the quarter," added Burd. "Because we are confident in the underlying strength of the business and our cash flow, we are increasing our quarterly dividend by 21% and repurchasing company stock."
Sales and Other Revenue
Total sales declined 7.6% to $9.2 billion in the first quarter of 2009 compared to $10.0 billion in the first quarter of 2008. This decline was the result of lower fuel sales (which was due primarily to lower fuel prices), a decline in the Canadian exchange rate and a shift in holiday sales.
Identical-store sales for the quarter, excluding fuel, declined 0.7%. After excluding the weeks affected by the shift in Easter holiday sales, identical-store sales, excluding fuel, increased to an estimated 0.2%.
Gross Profit
Gross profit declined seven basis points to 28.72% of sales in the first quarter of 2009 compared to 28.79% of sales in the first quarter of 2008. Excluding the 79 basis point impact from fuel sales, gross profit declined 86 basis points. This decline was primarily the result of investments in everyday prices, as well as an elevated level of promotional spending. Investments in everyday prices will continue, while promotional spending is expected to return to normal levels.
Operating and Administrative Expense
Operating and administrative expense declined approximately $100 million to $2.4 billion in the first quarter of 2009 from $2.5 billion in the first quarter of 2008. However, due to lower sales in 2009, operating and administrative expense increased 90 basis points to 25.67% of sales in the first quarter of 2009 from 24.77% of sales in the first quarter of 2008. Excluding the 74 basis point impact of lower fuel sales in the first quarter of 2009, operating and administrative expense increased 16 basis points. This increase was primarily the result of decreased sales leverage (partially due to the shift in holiday sales), increased occupancy costs as a percentage of sales and increased pension expense, partly offset by reduced labor costs.
Interest Expense
Interest expense declined to $78.2 million in the first quarter of 2009 from $84.5 million in the first quarter of 2008 due to a combination of lower average borrowings and lower interest rates.
Income Tax Expense
Income tax expense was $60.3 million, or 29.5% of pre-tax income, in the first quarter of 2009. Income tax expense in the first quarter of 2008 was $123.6 million, or 39.0% of pre-tax income. The decline in the tax rate was due primarily to benefits of $16 million from the favorable resolution of tax matters.
Stock Repurchases
During the first quarter of 2009, Safeway purchased 3.5 million shares of its common stock at an average cost of $18.40 per share and a total cost of $64.5 million (including commissions). The remaining board authorization for stock repurchases at quarter-end was approximately $1.1 billion.
Capital Expenditures
Safeway invested $243.5 million in capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2009. The company opened one new Lifestyle store, completed 10 Lifestyle remodels and closed three stores. Safeway has reduced planned capital expenditures in 2009 from $1.2 billion to approximately $1.0 billion and now plans to open approximately 10 new Lifestyle stores and complete approximately 100 Lifestyle remodels.
 
Cash Flow
Net cash flow used by operating activities was $151.0 million in the first quarter of 2009 compared to $41.2 million in the first quarter of 2008. This was primarily due to an increase in cash used by working capital which was the result of a shift in holiday shopping.
Net cash flow used by investing activities declined to $252.8 million in the first quarter of 2009 from $370.7 million in the first quarter of 2008 because of reduced capital expenditures.
Net cash flow provided by financing activities was $131.0 million in the first quarter of 2009 compared to $352.9 million in the first quarter of 2008. Borrowings were less in the first quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter of 2008 due to reduced capital expenditures.
Dividend
Safeway announced separately today that its Board of Directors authorized a 21% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.10 per share, effective for stockholders of record on June 25, 2009. The dividend will be paid on July 16, 2009.
Guidance
Safeway lowered earnings guidance for the year 2009 to $2.10 - $2.30 per diluted share and identical-store sales guidance, excluding fuel, to 0.5% - 1.5%. Safeway increased free cash flow guidance for the year 2009 to $1.1 billion - $1.3 billion.
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 50 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,737 stores in the United States and Canada. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
Safeway Conference Call
Safeway's investor conference call discussing first-quarter results will be broadcast live over the Internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 a.m. PT on April 30, 2009. Click on Webcast Events to access the call. A replay will be available via webcast for approximately one week following the conference call.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements relate to, among other things, price investments, promotional spending, estimates of diluted earnings per share, identical-store sales, capital expenditures, free cash flow, financial and operating results, stock repurchases and Lifestyle stores. Forward-looking statements are indicated by words or phrases such as "guidance," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "plans," "continuing," "ongoing," and similar words or phrases and the negative of such words and phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in or contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include the following: general business and economic conditions in our operating regions, including the rate of inflation, consumer spending levels, currency valuations, population, employment and job growth in our markets; pricing pressures and competitive factors, which could include pricing strategies, store openings, remodels or acquisitions by our competitors; results of our programs to control or reduce costs, improve buying practices and control shrink; results of our programs to increase sales; results of our continuing efforts to expand corporate brands; results of our programs to improve our perishables departments; results of our promotional programs; results of our capital program; results of our efforts to improve working capital; results of any ongoing litigation in which we are involved or any litigation in which we may become involved; the resolution of uncertain tax positions; the ability to achieve satisfactory operating results in all geographic areas where we operate; changes in the financial performance of our equity investments; labor costs, including benefit plan costs and severance payments, or labor disputes that may arise from time to time and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions or are scheduled to expire in the near future; failure to fully realize or delay in realizing growth prospects for new business ventures including Blackhawk Network Holdings, Inc. ("Blackhawk"); legislative, regulatory, tax, accounting or judicial developments, including with respect to Blackhawk; the cost and stability of fuel, energy and other power sources; the impact of the cost of fuel on gross margin and identical-store sales; discount rates used in actuarial calculations for pension obligations and self-insurance reserves; the rate of return on our pension assets; the availability and terms of financing, including interest rates and our ability to issue commercial paper or public debt or to borrow under our lines of credit as a result of current financial market conditions; adverse developments with regard to food and drug safety and quality issues or concerns that may arise; loss of a key member of senior management; data security or other information technology issues that may arise; unanticipated events or changes in real estate matters, including acquisitions, dispositions and impairments; adverse weather conditions; performance in new business ventures or other opportunities that we pursue, including Blackhawk; and the capital investment in and financial results from our Lifestyle stores. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. Please refer to our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and subsequent Current Reports on Form 8-K, for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER STATISTICAL DATA
 
TABLE 2: RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
 
TABLE 3: RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
TABLE 4: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP CASH FLOW MEASURE TO FREE CASH FLOW*
 
 
TABLE 5: SAME-STORE SALES
 
 
 
 


