FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20101014100119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of Safeway Inc., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On October 14, 2010, we issued our earnings press release for the third quarter of fiscal 2010. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
 -        "Adjusted EBITDA" which is defined by our bank credit agreement as EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization), excluding the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -        "Adjusted Debt" which is defined by our bank credit agreement as total debt less cash and equivalents in excess of $75.0 million.
 -        "Adjusted EBITDA as a multiple of interest expense" which is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by interest expense.
 -        "Adjusted Debt to Adjusted EBITDA" which is calculated by dividing Adjusted Debt by Adjusted EBITDA.
 -        "free cash flow" which is calculated as net cash flow provided by operating activities, as adjusted to exclude payables related to third-party gift cards, net of receivables, less net cash flow used by investing activities. Cash from the sale of third-party gift cards is held for a short period of time and then remitted, less our commission, to card partners. Because this cash flow is temporary, it is not available for other uses, and it is therefore excluded from our calculation of free cash flow.
 
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures  net income and net cash flow from operating activities  are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of "free cash flow" to GAAP cash flow for the 12 and 36 weeks ended September 11, 2010 and September 12, 2009 and to the forecasted range for fiscal 2010 are also provided in the press release. Given the rapid growth in the third-party gift card business and the highly seasonal nature of that business, with a significant portion of sales of third-party gift cards occurring in late December each year, management is unable to provide a meaningful estimate for payables related to third-party gift cards for 2010, and therefore is not able to provide a reconciliation of 2010 free cash flow guidance to net cash flow from operating activities. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures provides information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the other enumerated items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures and different business ventures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, impairment charges, methodologies in calculating LIFO expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that such store makes to operating performance.
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate "Adjusted EBITDA" as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
"Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt," "free cash flow" and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt, fund share repurchases and pay dividends that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities. A portion of the free cash flow that we generate in fiscal 2010 is expected to be spent on mandatory debt service requirements or other non-discretionary expenditures.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on our
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods indicated as a measure of liquidity. These measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and "free cash flow" differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
Additional limitations include:
 -          "Adjusted EBITDA" does not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements for capital expenditures, or contractual commitments;
 -          "Adjusted EBITDA" does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs;
 -          "Adjusted EBITDA" does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our debts;
 -          Non-cash compensation is and will remain a key element of our overall long-term incentive compensation package, although we exclude it as an expense when evaluating our ongoing operating performance for a particular period;
 -          "Adjusted EBITDA" does not reflect cash requirements for income taxes paid; and
 -          Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and "Adjusted EBITDA" does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements.
Because of these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Melissa Plaisance (925) 467-3136
Christiane Pelz (925) 467-3832
Pleasanton, CA  October 14, 2010
Results From Operations
Safeway Inc. today reported net income of $122.8 million ($0.33 per diluted share) for the third quarter of 2010 compared to $128.8 million ($0.31 per diluted share) for the third quarter of 2009. Results for the third quarter of 2010 include $12 million ($0.02 per diluted share) of employee severance charges, offset by a lower tax rate compared to the third quarter of 2009.
"Our third quarter results were in line with our expectations," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO. "The trend in price per item improved during the quarter. We expect this trend to continue as we anniversary the price investments we made in the second half of 2009. We continue to tailor our offerings to the changing needs of our customers, with innovative consumer brand launches of Refreshe beverages and In-Kind personal care products, while offering lower everyday prices and attractive club card specials."
Sales and Other Revenue
Total sales were $9.4 billion in the third quarter of 2010, down slightly compared to $9.5 billion in the third quarter of 2009. A 2.0% decline in identical-store sales, excluding fuel, and reduced sales from store closures were partly offset by a higher Canadian exchange rate and higher fuel sales. The decline in identical-store sales was due to a decline in price per item.
Gross Profit
Gross profit declined 13 basis points to 28.14% of sales in the third quarter of 2010 compared to 28.27% of sales in the third quarter of 2009. Excluding the 13 basis point impact from fuel sales, gross profit margin was flat. Investments in price carried forward from the second half of fiscal 2009 and $12 million of employee severance charges were offset by reduced advertising and improvement in shrink.
 
Operating and Administrative Expense
Operating and administrative expense was $2.4 billion in the third quarter of 2010, essentially flat compared to the third quarter of 2009. Operating and administrative expense as a percentage of sales increased 23 basis points to 25.56% in the third quarter of 2010 from 25.33% in the third quarter of 2009. Excluding the 14 basis point impact of higher fuel sales in the third quarter of 2010, operating and administrative expense margin increased 37 basis points. This increase was largely the result of deflation coupled with expected increases in wages and benefits, partly offset by lower losses from the combination of property disposals and impairment.
Interest Expense
Interest expense declined to $69.4 million in the third quarter of 2010 from $78.3 million in the third quarter of 2009 due to lower average interest rates and lower average borrowings.
Income Taxes
Income tax expense was 31.0% of pre-tax income in the third quarter of 2010 compared to 36.0% in the third quarter of 2009, resulting in a $0.02 improvement in diluted earnings per share. The income tax rate in 2010 was lower due to benefits from several individually immaterial items.
36-Week Results
Net income for the first 36 weeks of 2010 was $360.1 million ($0.94 per diluted share) compared to $511.6 million ($1.21 per diluted share) in the first 36 weeks of 2009. The first 36 weeks of 2009 included a $73.9 million tax benefit from the favorable resolution of tax matters.
The gross profit margin was 28.36% in the first 36 weeks of 2010 compared to 28.62% in the first 36 weeks of 2009. Operating and administrative expense margin was 25.74% in the first 36 weeks of 2010 compared to 25.36% in the first 36 weeks of 2009.
Guidance
For the year, earnings per diluted share and non-fuel ID sales are expected to be toward the lower end of guidance of $1.50 to $1.70 and -1.0% to -1.5%, respectively. The company expects cash capital expenditures of approximately $900 million and free cash flow in the middle of the range of $0.9 to $1.1 billion.
Stock Repurchases
During the third quarter of 2010, Safeway purchased 8.8 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $20.81 per share and a total cost of $182.5 million (including commissions). The remaining board authorization for stock repurchases at quarter-end was approximately $0.8 billion.
Capital Expenditures
Safeway invested $170.7 million in capital expenditures in the third quarter of 2010. The company completed two new stores, completed nine Lifestyle remodels and closed 12 stores. For the year, Safeway plans to open approximately 15 new Lifestyle stores and complete approximately 60 Lifestyle remodels.
 
 
Cash Flow
Net cash flow provided by operating activities was $846.6 million in the first 36 weeks of 2010 compared to $1,287.3 million in the first 36 weeks of 2009. This was primarily due to increased income tax payments, a decline in third-party gift card payables, net of receivables, and lower net income.
Net cash flow used by investing activities declined to $550.6 million in the first 36 weeks of 2010 from $627.5 million in the first 36 weeks of 2009 because of reduced capital expenditures and increased proceeds from the sale of property.
Net cash flow used by financing activities declined to $139.6 million in the first 36 weeks of 2010 from $677.4 million in the first 36 weeks of 2009 due primarily to a net increase in borrowings in 2010.
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 100 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,702 stores in the United States and Canada. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
Safeway Conference Call
Safeway's investor conference call discussing third quarter results will be broadcast live over the internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 a.m. PT on October 14, 2010. Click on Upcoming Events to access the call. A replay will be available via webcast for approximately one week following the conference call.
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements relate to, among other things, estimates of diluted earnings per share, sales, capital expenditures, free cash flow, Lifestyle stores, price per item, and financial and operating results. Forward-looking statements are indicated by words or phrases such as "guidance," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "plans," "continuing," "ongoing," and similar words or phrases and the negative of such words and phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in or contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include the following: general business and economic conditions in our operating regions, including the rate of inflation or deflation, consumer spending levels, currency valuations, population, employment and job growth and/or losses in our markets; sales volume levels and price per item trends; pricing pressures and competitive factors, which could include pricing strategies, store openings, remodels or acquisitions by our competitors; results of our programs to control or reduce costs, improve buying practices and control shrink; results of our programs to increase sales; results of our continuing efforts to expand corporate brands; results of our programs to improve our perishables departments; results of our promotional programs; results of our capital program; results of our efforts to improve working capital; results of any ongoing litigation in which we are involved or any litigation in which we may become involved; the resolution of uncertain tax positions; the ability to achieve satisfactory operating results in all geographic areas where we operate; changes in the financial performance of our equity investments; labor costs, including benefit plan costs and severance payments, or labor disputes that may arise from time to time and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions or are scheduled to expire in the near future; failure to fully realize or delay in realizing growth prospects for existing or new business ventures, including our Blackhawk subsidiary; legislative, regulatory, tax, accounting or judicial developments, including with respect to Blackhawk; the cost and stability of fuel, energy and other power sources; the impact of the cost of fuel on gross margin and identical-store sales; discount rates used in actuarial calculations for pension obligations and self-insurance reserves; the rate of return on our pension assets; the availability and terms of financing, including interest rates; adverse developments with regard to food and drug safety and quality issues or concerns that may arise; loss of a key member of senior management; data security or other information technology issues that may arise; unanticipated events or changes in real estate matters, including acquisitions, dispositions and impairments; adverse weather conditions and effects from natural disasters; performance in new business ventures or other opportunities that we pursue; and the capital investment in and financial results from our Lifestyle stores. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. Please refer to our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and subsequent Current Reports on Form 8-K, for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER STATISTICAL DATA
 
 
 
TABLE 3: RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
 
 
 
TABLE 5: SAME-STORE SALES
 
 
 


