FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20100722100429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of Safeway Inc., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On July 22, 2010, we issued our earnings press release for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures  net income and net cash flow from operating activities  are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of "free cash flow" to GAAP cash flow for the 12 and 24 weeks ended June 19, 2010 and June 20, 2009 are also provided in the press release. Given the rapid growth in the third-party gift card business and the highly seasonal nature of that business, with a significant portion of sales of third-party gift cards occurring in late December each year, management is unable to provide a meaningful estimate for payables related to third-party gift cards for 2010, and therefore is not able to provide a reconciliation of 2010 free cash flow guidance to net cash flow from operating activities. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures provides information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the other enumerated items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures and different business ventures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, impairment charges, methodologies in calculating LIFO expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that such store makes to operating performance.
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate "Adjusted EBITDA" as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
"Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt," "free cash flow" and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt, fund share repurchases and pay dividends that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities. A portion of the free cash flow that we generate in fiscal 2010 is expected to be spent on mandatory debt service requirements or other non-discretionary expenditures.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as a measure of liquidity. These measures have
 
limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and "free cash flow" differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
Additional limitations include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Because of these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Melissa Plaisance (925) 467-3136
Christiane Pelz (925) 467-3832
Pleasanton, CA  July 22, 2010
Results From Operations
Safeway Inc. today reported net income of $141.3 million ($0.37 per diluted share) for the second quarter of 2010 compared to $238.6 million ($0.57 per diluted share) for the second quarter of 2009. The second quarter of 2009 included a $57.8 million tax benefit ($0.14 per diluted share) from the resolution of a tax matter.
"Our second quarter results were in line with our expectations, and we are encouraged by our volume trends in the quarter," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO. "However, deflation continues in price per item and is not expected to significantly improve until the fourth quarter. As a result, we have lowered our expectations for the balance of the year."
Sales and Other Revenue
Total sales were $9.5 billion in the second quarter of 2010, essentially flat compared to $9.5 billion in the second quarter of 2009. A higher Canadian exchange rate and higher fuel sales were largely offset by a 2.5% decline in identical-store sales, excluding fuel.
Gross Profit
Gross profit declined 32 basis points to 28.55% of sales in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 28.87% of sales in the second quarter of 2009. This decline was largely the result of investments in price carried forward from the second half of fiscal 2009 and increased advertising. Fuel sales had almost no impact on the decline in gross profit margin.
Operating and Administrative Expense
Operating and administrative expense increased 46 basis points to 25.55% of sales in the second quarter of 2010 from 25.09% of sales in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding the 31 basis point impact of higher fuel sales in the second quarter of 2010, operating and
 
administrative expense margin increased 77 basis points. This increase was largely the result of deflation coupled with expected increases in wages and benefits, including a $14.5 million employee buyout in the second quarter of 2010. Excluding the 16 basis point impact of the employee buyout, operating and administrative expense margin, excluding fuel, increased 61 basis points.
Interest Expense
Interest expense declined to $69.2 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $77.2 million in the second quarter of 2009 due to lower average borrowings and lower average interest rates.
Income Taxes
Income tax expense was 35.3% of pre-tax income in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 15.9% in the second quarter of 2009. The income tax rate in 2009 was lower due to a benefit of $57.8 million from the favorable resolution of a tax matter.
24-Week Results
Net income for the first 24 weeks of 2010 was $237.3 million ($0.61 per diluted share) compared to $382.8 million ($0.90 per diluted share) in the first 24 weeks of 2009.
The gross profit margin was 28.48% in the first 24 weeks of 2010 compared to 28.80% in the first 24 weeks of 2009. Operating and administrative expense margin was 25.83% in the first 24 weeks of 2010 compared to 25.38% in the first 24 weeks of 2009.
Guidance
Safeway is updating guidance for the year to $1.50 to $1.70 earnings per diluted share and non-fuel ID sales of -1.0% to -1.5%. The company continues to expect cash capital expenditures of approximately $0.9 to $1.0 billion and free cash flow of $0.9 to $1.1 billion.
Stock Repurchases
During the second quarter of 2010, Safeway purchased 7.1 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $23.76 per share and a total cost of $169.4 million (including commissions). The remaining board authorization for stock repurchases at quarter-end was approximately $1.0 billion.
Capital Expenditures
Safeway invested $192.1 million in capital expenditures in the second quarter of 2010. The company opened five new stores, completed 17 Lifestyle remodels and closed five stores. For the year, Safeway plans to invest $0.9 to $1.0 billion in capital expenditures, open approximately 15 new Lifestyle stores and complete approximately 60 Lifestyle remodels.
 
Cash Flow
Net cash flow provided by operating activities was $309.1 million in the first 24 weeks of 2010 compared to $684.1 million in the first 24 weeks of 2009. This was primarily due to a decline in third-party gift card payables, net of receivables, lower net income and increased income tax payments.
Net cash flow used by investing activities declined to $393.6 million in the first 24 weeks of 2010 from $461.2 million in the first 24 weeks of 2009 because of reduced capital expenditures.
Net cash flow provided by financing activities increased to $155.6 million in the first 24 weeks of 2010 from a use of $392.8 million in the first 24 weeks of 2009 due primarily to a net increase in borrowings.
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 100 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,712 stores in the United States and Canada. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
Safeway Conference Call
Safeway's investor conference call discussing second quarter results will be broadcast live over the internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 a.m. PT on July 22, 2010. Click on Upcoming Events to access the call. A replay will be available via webcast for approximately one week following the conference call.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements relate to, among other things, estimates of diluted earnings per share, sales, capital expenditures, free cash flow, Lifestyle stores, deflation, and financial and operating results. Forward-looking statements are indicated by words or phrases such as "guidance," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "plans," "continuing," "ongoing," and similar words or phrases and the negative of such words and phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in or contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include the following: general business and economic conditions in our operating regions, including the rate of inflation or deflation, consumer spending levels, currency valuations, population, employment and job growth and/or losses in our markets; pricing pressures and competitive factors, which could include pricing strategies, store openings, remodels or acquisitions by our competitors; results of our programs to control or reduce costs, improve buying practices and control shrink; results of our programs to increase sales; results of our continuing efforts to expand corporate brands; results of our programs to improve our perishables departments; results of our promotional programs; results of our capital program; results of our efforts to improve working capital; results of any ongoing litigation in which we are involved or any litigation in which we may become involved; the resolution of uncertain tax positions; the ability to achieve satisfactory operating results in all geographic areas where we operate; changes in the financial performance of our equity investments; labor costs, including benefit plan costs and severance payments, or labor disputes that may arise from time to time and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions or are scheduled to expire in the near future; failure to fully realize or delay in realizing growth prospects for existing or new business ventures, including our Blackhawk subsidiary; legislative, regulatory, tax, accounting or judicial developments, including with respect to Blackhawk; the cost and stability of fuel, energy and other power sources; the impact of the cost of fuel on gross margin and identical-store sales; discount rates used in actuarial calculations for pension obligations and self-insurance reserves; the rate of return on our pension assets; the availability and terms of financing, including interest rates; adverse developments with regard to food and drug safety and quality issues or concerns that may arise; loss of a key member of senior management; data security or other information technology issues that may arise; unanticipated events or changes in real estate matters, including acquisitions, dispositions and impairments; adverse weather conditions and effects from natural disasters; performance in new business ventures or other opportunities that we pursue; and the capital investment in and financial results from our Lifestyle stores. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. Please refer to our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and subsequent Current Reports on Form 8-K, for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER STATISTICAL DATA
 
 
TABLE 3: RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
TABLE 4: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP CASH FLOW MEASURE TO FREE CASH FLOW*
 
 
 
 
TABLE 5: SAME-STORE SALES
 
 
 


