FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20110316120741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 16, 2011, Safeway Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the appointment of T. Gary Rogers to the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), effective March 15, 2011. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Rogers and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director of the Company. Mr. Rogers was also appointed to the Executive Committee of the Board. Mr. Rogers does not have any reportable transactions under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PLEASANTON, CA - March 16, 2011 - Safeway Inc. announced the appointment of T. Gary Rogers to the company's board of directors. The company's board of directors will expand from 9 to 10 members with this new appointment.
"Gary's vast experience as a supplier to the grocery industry, his business acumen and experience as a director will be great assets to the board," said Safeway Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Steve Burd. "We are pleased he is joining our board."
Mr. Rogers is the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream, Inc., which he led since 1977 and developed into the nation's largest ice cream company. He retired in 2007, after the company was sold to Nestl, one of the world's largest food companies. Rogers is also the former Chairman of the Board of Levi Strauss & Co, where he served as a director from 1998 to 2008. He also served on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco from 2005 through 2010, the last two years as Chairman.
He is also currently on the advisory boards of Shorenstein Properties and Stanislaus Food Products as well as a number of public service boards. Rogers previously served on the boards of Foster Farms, The Wine Group, GardenAmerica, Il Fornaio and Marathon Meat.
Rogers holds a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Berkeley and an MBA from Harvard Business School, where he was a Baker Scholar.
He was named Harvard Business School Business Leader of the Year, Dairy Industry Executive of the Year and is a member of the Bay Area Business Hall of Fame.
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 100 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,694 stores in the United States and Canada and had annual sales of $41.1 billion in 2010.
Contact: Christiane Pelz (925) 467-3832


