FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20110224100114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of Safeway Inc., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On February 24, 2011, we issued our earnings press release for the fourth fiscal quarter and full year 2010. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures  net income and net cash flow from operating activities  are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of "free cash flow" to GAAP cash flow for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 are also provided in the press release. Reconciliations of net income excluding goodwill impairment charge to GAAP net loss and diluted earnings per share excluding goodwill impairment charge to diluted loss per share for fiscal 2009 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 are also provided in the press release. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures provides information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the other enumerated items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
Management believes that "Adjusted EBITDA" and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, impairment charges, methodologies in calculating LIFO expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that such store makes to operating performance.
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate "Adjusted EBITDA" as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
"Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt," "free cash flow" and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt, fund share repurchases and pay dividends that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities.
The exclusions included in "net income, excluding goodwill impairment charge" and "diluted earnings per share, excluding goodwill impairment charge" relate to the effects of the non-cash goodwill impairment charge that we incurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Management
 
believes that excluding this item provides a useful financial measure that will facilitate comparisons of our operating results before, during and after such charge was incurred, as well as facilitating comparisons of our performance with that of other companies that might not have the goodwill impairment charge that we have experienced. Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our "net income excluding goodwill impairment charge" and "diluted earnings per share, excluding goodwill impairment charge" as indicators of our ongoing operating performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as a measure of liquidity. These measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate "Adjusted EBITDA," "Adjusted Debt" and "free cash flow" differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
Additional limitations include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Because of these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Melissa Plaisance (925) 467-3136
Christiane Pelz (925) 467-3832
Pleasanton, CA  February 24, 2011
Results From Operations
Safeway Inc. today reported net income of $229.6 million ($0.62 per diluted share) for the fourth quarter of 2010.
In the fourth quarter of 2009, Safeway reported a net loss of $1,609.1 million ($4.06 per diluted share) including a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1,974.2 million ($1,818.2 million, net of tax, or $4.59 per diluted share). The impairment was due primarily to Safeway's reduced market capitalization and a weak economy. Excluding the goodwill impairment charge, net income for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $209.1 million ($0.53 per diluted share).
"We are pleased with the improving trends in sales in 2010, driven by our price reductions, reinvigorated private label brands and targeted marketing. These trends have continued into the first quarter of 2011," said Steve Burd, Chairman, President and CEO. "We are also encouraged by the results of our efforts to achieve cost reduction, especially in shrink and store-level efficiencies, as well as our strong annual free cash flow."
Sales and Other Revenue
Total sales were $12.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to $12.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009. Higher fuel sales and an increase in the Canadian exchange rate were offset by reduced sales due to store closures and a 0.8% decline in identical-store sales, excluding fuel.
Gross Profit
Gross profit declined 56 basis points to 28.08% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to 28.64% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2009. Excluding the 60 basis-point
impact from fuel sales, gross profit increased four basis points. This increase was largely the result of improved shrink, partly offset by investments in price in the first half of the quarter.
Operating and Administrative Expense
Operating and administrative expense decreased 44 basis points to 24.82% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2010 from 25.26% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2009. Excluding the 36 basis point impact of higher fuel sales in the fourth quarter of 2010, operating and administrative expense margin decreased eight basis points. This decrease was primarily the result of higher gains on property dispositions, lower general liability expense and reduced indirect store expenses, partly offset by higher workers' compensation expense. Workers' compensation expense increased primarily because of a decline in the interest rate used to calculate the discounted workers' compensation liability.
Interest Expense
Interest expense declined to $90.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 from $98.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 due to lower average borrowings and lower average interest rates.
Income Taxes
Income tax expense was $106.1 million or 31.5% of pre-tax income in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to an income tax benefit of $33.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. Comparisons between the 2010 and 2009 tax rates are not meaningful because of the impact of the 2009 goodwill impairment charge. The fourth quarter income tax rate was lower than in the earlier quarters of 2010 due to benefits from several individually immaterial items.
Annual Results
Net income for the fiscal year 2010 was $589.8 million ($1.55 per diluted share) compared to a net loss for 2009 of $1,097.5 million ($2.66 per diluted share). Excluding the goodwill impairment charge of $1,818.2 million, net of tax ($4.40 per diluted share), net income was $720.7 million ($1.74 per diluted share) in 2009.
The gross profit margin was 28.28% in 2010 compared to 28.62% in 2009. Operating and administrative expense margin was 25.45% in 2010 compared to 25.33% in 2009.
Stock Repurchases
During the fourth quarter of 2010, Safeway purchased 7.5 million shares of its common stock at an average cost of $22.67 per share and a total cost of $170.0 million (including commissions). For the full year, Safeway purchased 27.4 million shares of its common stock at an average cost of $22.67 per share and a total cost of $621.1 million (including commissions). During the fourth quarter, Safeway's board of directors increased the authorization for stock repurchases by $1.0 billion. The remaining board authorization for stock repurchases at year-end was approximately $1.7 billion.
 
Capital Expenditures
Safeway invested $282.0 million in capital expenditures in the fourth quarter of 2010. The company opened seven new Lifestyle stores, completed 25 Lifestyle remodels and closed 15 stores. For the year, Safeway invested $837.5 million in capital expenditures, opened 14 new Lifestyle stores, completed 60 Lifestyle remodels and closed 45 stores.
Cash Flow
Net cash flow provided by operating activities was $1,849.7 million in the year 2010 compared to $2,549.7 million in the year 2009. This reduction was due primarily to lower net income in 2010 compared to net income excluding goodwill impairment charge in 2009 and cash flow used by working capital items in 2010.
Net cash flow used by investing activities declined to $798.8 million in the year 2010 from $889.0 million in 2009 primarily due to higher proceeds from the sale of property in 2010.
Net cash flow used by financing activities declined to $768.1 million in the year 2010 from $1,600.3 million in 2009 due primarily to lower payments on borrowings and to a lower level of stock repurchases in 2010 compared to 2009.
Guidance
Safeway will issue a press release announcing earnings guidance for 2011 on the morning of Tuesday, March 8, 2011, when we will be holding our annual investor conference.
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 100 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,694 stores in the United States and Canada. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
Safeway Conference Call
Safeway's investor conference call discussing fourth-quarter results will be broadcast live over the internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 a.m. PT on February 24, 2011. Click on Upcoming Events to access the call. A replay will be available via webcast for approximately one week following the conference call.
 
This press release and related conference call contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are indicated by words or phrases such as "guidance," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "plans," "continuing," "ongoing," and similar words or phrases and the negative of such words and phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in or contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include the following: general business and economic conditions in our operating regions, including the rate of inflation or deflation, consumer spending levels, currency valuations, population, employment and job growth and/or losses in our markets; sales volume levels and price per item trends; pricing pressures and competitive factors, which could include pricing strategies, store openings, remodels or acquisitions by our competitors; results of our programs to control or reduce costs, improve buying practices and control shrink; results of our programs to increase sales; results of our continuing efforts to expand corporate brands; results of our programs to improve our perishables departments; results of our promotional programs; results of our capital program; results of our efforts to improve working capital; results of any ongoing litigation in which we are involved or any litigation in which we may become involved; the resolution of uncertain tax positions; the ability to achieve satisfactory operating results in all geographic areas where we operate; changes in the financial performance of our equity investments; labor costs, including benefit plan costs and severance payments, or labor disputes that may arise from time to time and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions or are scheduled to expire in the near future; failure to fully realize or delay in realizing growth prospects for existing or new business ventures, including our Blackhawk and Property Development Centers subsidiaries; legislative, regulatory, tax, accounting or judicial developments, including with respect to Blackhawk; the cost and stability of fuel, energy and other power sources; the impact of the cost of fuel on gross margin and identical-store sales; discount rates used in actuarial calculations for pension obligations and self-insurance reserves; the rate of return on our pension assets; the availability and terms of financing, including interest rates; adverse developments with regard to food and drug safety and quality issues or concerns that may arise; loss of a key member of senior management; data security or other information technology issues that may arise; unanticipated events or changes in real estate matters, including acquisitions, dispositions and impairments; adverse weather conditions and effects from natural disasters; performance in new business ventures or other opportunities that we pursue; and the capital investment in and financial results from our Lifestyle stores. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. Please refer to our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and subsequent Current Reports on Form 8-K, for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER STATISTICAL DATA
 
TABLE 2: RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO SAFEWAY INC. TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
 
TABLE 3: RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
TABLE 4: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP CASH FLOW MEASURE TO FREE CASH FLOW*
 
 
 
TABLE 5: SAME-STORE SALES
 
 
TABLE 6: RECONCILIATION OF 2009 GAAP NET LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO SAFEWAY INC. TO NET INCOME EXCLUDING GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT CHARGE
 
 
 


