FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20120409181231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 9, 2012
 
SAFEWAY INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
(925) 467-3000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 9, 2012, Safeway Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing the appointment of Robert L. Edwards to the position of President of the Company, effective April 9, 2012. Steven A. Burd, formerly Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, will continue as the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
From 2004 until his appointment as President, Mr. Edwards, 56, served as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Edwards will continue as Chief Financial Officer of the Company until a successor is named to the position.
 
Mr. Edwards does not have any reportable transactions under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.
    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit
No.

Immediate Release                             
Media Contact:
Teena Massingill, 925-467-3810, Teena.Massingill@Safeway.com
Investor Contact:
Christiane Pelz, 925-467-3832, Christiane.Pelz@Safeway.com
Safeway Inc. Names Robert Edwards President
Company Expands Larree Rendas Role
PLEASANTON, Calif.  April 9, 2012  Safeway Inc. (NYSE:SWY) today named Robert Edwards President of the Company. Mr. Edwards has served as Safeways Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2004.
Mr. Edwards, 56, will have overall responsibility for the companys retail operations, marketing, merchandising, corporate brands, manufacturing, distribution and finance functions. He will continue as Chief Financial Officer until a successor is named to the position.
Robert is one of those unusual executives with a strong command of both the financial and operational sides of our business, said Safeway Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Steve Burd. His deep engagement with our operations and marketing units while he has been CFO will make for a seamless transition to Roberts new role. His assumption of these new duties provides me an opportunity to concentrate more of my time on innovation and a range of strategic initiatives that will drive core and non-core business growth in the long term.
The company also announced that Larree Renda, 53, Executive Vice President, will assume additional responsibilities for real estate (including Property Development Centers) and information technology, which adds to her current duties managing human resources and labor relations, strategic initiatives, corporate social responsibility, government relations, public affairs and Safeway Health.
We are taking one of our most productive and talented executives and broadening her duties to include oversight of two key functions, said Mr. Burd. Both of these changes to our management structure will further strengthen our senior team and our ability to deliver sustainable growth.
Before joining Safeway, Mr. Edwards served as EVP and CFO at Maxtor Corporation, and was SVP, CFO and CAO at Imation Corporation. Prior to that, Mr. Edwards had a 20-year career at Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corporation and its affiliates. He currently serves on the Boards of Blackhawk Network Holdings, Inc., Casa Ley, S.A. de C.V., Safeways joint venture in Mexico, and KKR Financial Holdings LLC.
Ms. Renda began her career at retail with Safeway in 1974. After progressing through the store ranks, she joined the corporate team in 1991 as Vice President of Retail and advanced through a succession of more senior leadership roles to her current position as Executive Vice President. Ms. Renda chairs the Safeway Foundation Board of Directors and serves on the Board of Casa Ley. She is also on the Board of HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Ms. Renda is a Trustee on the National Joint Labor Management Committee.
ABOUT SAFEWAY www.Safeway.com
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 100 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates 1,678 stores in the United States and Canada, and had $43.6 billion in sales in 2011. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
-End-


