FILE:SWY/SWY-8K-20120426095744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 26, 2012
 
SAFEWAY INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
(925) 467-3000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of Safeway Inc., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On April 26, 2012, we issued our earnings press release for the first quarter of fiscal 2012. A copy of our press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In the press release and our other public statements in connection with the press release, we use the following financial measures that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP financial measures):
    
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures - net income attributable to Safeway Inc. and net cash flow from operating activities - are provided in the press release. Reconciliations of free cash flow to GAAP cash flow for the 12 weeks ended March 24, 2012 and March 26, 2011 and to the forecasted range for fiscal 2012 are
also provided in the press release. Given the rapid growth in the third-party gift card business and the highly seasonal nature of that business, with a significant portion of sales of third-party gift cards occurring in late December each year, management is unable to provide a meaningful estimate for payables related to third-party gift cards for 2012, and therefore is not able to provide a reconciliation of the forecasted range of free cash flow for fiscal 2012 to net cash flow from operating activities. Reconciliations of net income attributable to Safeway Inc. excluding tax charge on Canadian dividend to GAAP net income attributable to Safeway Inc. and diluted income per common share attributable to Safeway Inc. excluding tax charge on Canadian dividend to diluted income per common share attributable to Safeway Inc. are also provided in the press release, as is a reconciliation of income tax rate excluding tax charge on Canadian dividend and a reconciliation of decline in operating and administrative expense margin excluding fuel and holiday shift. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures provides information regarding various aspects of the cash that our business generates, which management believes is useful to understanding our business.
Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Debt and the related ratios are useful measures of operating performance that facilitate management's evaluation of our ability to service debt and our capability to incur more debt to generate the cash needed to grow the business (including at times when interest rates fluctuate). Omitting interest, taxes and the other enumerated items provides a financial measure that is useful to management in assessing operating performance because the cash our business operations generate enables us to incur debt and thus to grow.
 
Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA, and the related ratios also facilitate comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness, tax structures, discontinued operations, property impairment charges, methodologies in calculating LIFO expense and unconsolidated affiliates that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors' ability to make these comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because other companies may employ a greater or lesser amount of owned property, and because, in management's experience, whether a store is new or one that is fully or mostly depreciated does not necessarily correlate to the contribution that such store makes to operating performance.
Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate Adjusted EBITDA as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry.
Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Debt, free cash flow and the related ratios are useful indicators of Safeway's ability to service debt, fund share repurchases and pay dividends that management believes will enhance stockholder value. Adjusted EBITDA also is a useful indicator of cash available for investing activities. A portion of the free cash flow that we generate in fiscal 2012 is expected to be spent on mandatory debt service requirements or other non-discretionary expenditures.
The exclusions included in net income attributable to Safeway Inc. excluding tax charge on Canadian dividend, diluted net income per common share attributable to Safeway Inc. excluding tax charge on Canadian dividend and "income tax rate excluding tax charge on Canadian dividend" relate to the income tax expense associated with repatriating earnings to the U.S. from the Company's Canadian subsidiary. Management believes that excluding this item provides a useful financial measure that will facilitate comparisons of our operating results before, during and after such charge was incurred, as well as facilitating comparisons of our performance with that of other companies that might not have the organizational structure that we have. Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our net income attributable to Safeway Inc. excluding tax charge on Canadian dividend, diluted net income per common share attributable to Safeway Inc. excluding tax charge on Canadian dividend and "income tax rate excluding tax charge on Canadian dividend" as indicators of our ongoing operating performance.
Management believes that decline in operating and administrative expense margin excluding fuel and holiday shift provides a useful financial measure that will facilitate comparisons of our performance with that of other companies that might not use the same retail calendar that we use. Management also believes that excluding fuel sales from operating and administrative expense margin provides a more useful measure because volatility in fuel prices and the resulting fluctuations in our sales and cost of sales may distort investors', analysts' and other interested parties' perception of our operating performance. Management also believes that investors, analysts and other interested parties view decline in operating and administrative expense margin excluding fuel and holiday shift as an indicator of our ongoing operating performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to net cash from operating activities or other increases and decreases in cash as shown on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as a measure of liquidity. These measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Debt and free cash flow differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures.
Additional limitations include:
Because of these and other limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these and other limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and use our non-GAAP financial measures supplementally.
(d) Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SAFEWAY INC. ANNOUNCES
FIRST QUARTER
2012 RESULTS
Contact: Melissa Plaisance (925) 467-3136
Christiane Pelz (925) 467-3832
                 
Pleasanton, CA - April 26, 2012
Results From Operations
Safeway Inc. today reported income from continuing operations of
$81.6 million
(
$0.30
per diluted share) for the first quarter of 2012 compared to
$25.1 million
(
$0.07
per diluted share) in the first quarter of 2011. The first quarter of last year included an $80.2 million tax charge ($0.22 per diluted share) resulting from the decision to repatriate $1.1 billion from Safeway's wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary. Were it not for this tax charge, net income would have been $105.3 million ($0.29 per diluted share) for the first quarter of 2011.
"Strong cost controls helped us meet earnings expectations despite a shift in the New Year's holiday, weather patterns and high gasoline prices which dampened sales," said Steve Burd, Chairman and CEO. "In addition, operating profit in the quarter would have been essentially the same as last year without the holiday shift. In the last eight weeks, identical-store sales have been running at 1%, and we continue to believe sales will grow as our new marketing initiatives take hold."
Sales and Other Revenue
Although identical-store sales (excluding fuel) were flat, total sales increased
2.4%
to
$10.0 billion
in the first quarter of 2012 from
$9.8 billion
in the first quarter of 2011, primarily due to higher fuel sales, higher revenue from Blackhawk and additional sales from new stores.
Gross Profit
Gross profit declined
70
basis points to
26.84%
of sales in the first quarter of 2012 compared to
27.54%
of sales in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the
62
basis-point impact from fuel sales, gross profit declined
eight
basis points.
Operating and Administrative Expense
Operating and administrative expense decreased
35
basis points to
24.95%
of sales in the first quarter of 2012 from
25.30%
of sales in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the
37
basis-point impact of higher fuel sales, operating and administrative expense margin increased
two
basis points. The 2012 New Year's holiday (traditionally a slow sales day with higher holiday wages) fell in the first quarter of 2012 while the 2011 New Year's holiday fell in the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding the 17 basis-point impact of this holiday shift, operating and administrative expense margin declined 15 basis points.
Interest Expense
Interest expense increased to
$71.4 million
in the first quarter of 2012 from
$65.7 million
in the first quarter of 2011 because of higher average borrowings, partly offset by lower average interest rates.
Income Taxes
Income tax expense was
34.0%
of pre-tax income in the first quarter of 2012. Income tax expense in the first quarter of 2011 included a charge of $80.2 million ($0.22 per diluted share) related to the decision to repatriate $1.1 billion from Safeway's Canadian subsidiary. Excluding this tax charge, income tax expense was 33.0% of pre-tax income in the first quarter of 2011. The tax rate was lower in 2011 due to several individually immaterial items.
Discontinued Operations
In January 2012, Safeway announced the planned sale or closure of 27 Genuardi's stores, including the sale of 16 Genuardi's stores to Giant Food Stores, LLC. In the first quarter of 2012, Safeway closed three of the Genuardi's stores and incurred impairment and lease exit losses of $14 million (
$8.6 million
, net of tax). Safeway expects to complete the disposition of the remaining 24 Genuardi's stores in 2012 for an estimated gain of approximately $67 million and net cash proceeds of approximately $102 million.
Cash Flow
Net cash flow used by operating activities was
$541.8 million
in the first quarter of 2012 compared to
$60.0 million
in 2011. This change was largely due to the higher use of cash for working capital in 2012, which was driven primarily by the replenishment of inventory and the settlement of Blackhawk holiday payables.
Net cash flow used by investing activities increased to
$273.0 million
in the first quarter of 2012 from
$188.4 million
in 2011 primarily due to higher capital expenditures in 2012, partly offset by increased proceeds from the sale of property in 2012.
Net cash flow provided by financing activities was
$220.6 million
in the first quarter of 2012 compared to a use of cash of
$132.8 million
in 2011. This change was due primarily to higher net proceeds from borrowings in 2012, partly offset by a higher level of stock repurchases in 2012.
Capital Expenditures
Safeway invested
$308.4 million
in capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2012, while opening
four
new Lifestyle stores and closing
seven
stores. For the year, Safeway expects to invest approximately $900 million in capital expenditures, open 10 new Lifestyle stores and complete 10 Lifestyle remodels.
Stock Repurchases
During the first quarter of 2012, Safeway purchased
46.0 million
shares of its common stock at an average cost of
$21.70
per share and a total cost of
$1.0 billion
(including commissions). During the first quarter of 2012, Safeway's board of directors increased the authorization for stock repurchases by $1.0 billion. The remaining board authorization for stock repurchases at quarter-end was approximately $1.1 billion. From the end of the first quarter of 2012 through April 25, 2012, Safeway has purchased 10.6 million shares of its common stock at an average cost of $20.78 per share and a total cost of $219.5 million (including commissions).
2
Guidance
Safeway's guidance for 2012 remains at $1.90 to $2.10 per diluted share, nonfuel ID sales growth of 1% to 2%, operating profit margin change, excluding fuel, of negative five basis points to five basis points, and free cash flow of $850 million to $950 million.
About Safeway
Safeway Inc. is a Fortune 100 company and one of the largest food and drug retailers in North America based on sales. The company operates
1,675
stores in the United States and Canada. The company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SWY.
Safeway Conference Call
Safeway's investor conference call discussing first-quarter results will be broadcast live over the internet at www.safeway.com/investor_relations at 8:00 a.m. PT on April 26, 2012. Click on Upcoming Events to access the call. A replay will be available via webcast for approximately one week following the conference call.
-o0o-
This press release and related conference call contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements relate to, among other things, earnings per share, sales growth, profit margins, free cash flow, store dispositions, capital expenditures and Lifestyle stores. Forward-looking statements are indicated by words or phrases such as guidance, believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, plans, continuing, ongoing, and similar words or phrases and the negative of such words and phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which are, in many instances, beyond our control, and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in or contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include the following: general business and economic conditions in our operating regions, including the rate of inflation or deflation, consumer spending levels, currency valuations, population, employment and job growth and/or losses in our markets; sales volume levels and price per item trends; pricing pressures and competitive factors, which could include pricing strategies, store openings, remodels or acquisitions by our competitors; results of our programs to control or reduce costs, improve buying practices and control shrink; results of our programs to increase sales; results of our continuing efforts to expand corporate brands; results of our programs to improve our perishables departments; results of our promotional programs; results of our capital program; results of our efforts to improve working capital; results of any ongoing litigation in which we are involved or any litigation in which we may become involved; the resolution of uncertain tax positions; the ability to achieve satisfactory operating results in all geographic areas where we operate; changes in the financial performance of our equity investments; labor costs, including benefit plan costs and severance payments, or labor disputes that may arise from time to time and work stoppages that could occur in areas where certain collective bargaining agreements have expired or are on indefinite extensions or are scheduled to expire in the near future; failure to fully realize or delay in realizing growth prospects for existing or new business ventures, including our Blackhawk and Property Development Centers subsidiaries; legislative, regulatory, tax, accounting or judicial developments, including with respect to Blackhawk; the cost and stability of fuel, energy and other power sources; the impact of the cost of fuel on gross margin and identical-store sales; discount rates used in actuarial calculations for pension obligations and self-insurance reserves; the rate of return on our pension assets; the availability and terms of financing, including interest rates; adverse developments with regard to food and drug safety and quality issues or concerns that may arise; loss of a key member of senior management; data security or other information technology issues that may arise; unanticipated events or changes in real estate matters, including acquisitions, dispositions and impairments; adverse weather conditions and effects from natural disasters; performance in new business ventures or other opportunities that we pursue; and the capital investment in and financial results from our Lifestyle stores. We
3
undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. Please refer to our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and subsequent Current Reports on Form 8-K, for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
4
5
6
7
8
9
10


