FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20031105103405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. .
Other Events
 
On November 5, 2003, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements setting forth current expectations of the Registrant's management regarding the Registrant's possible earnings for fiscal 2004 and future fiscal years (the "Earnings Projections"). The Earnings Projections are presented exclusive of possible special items and, therefore, may be considered non-GAAP measures under Regulation G. No reconciliation to GAAP has been presented because the amount of any possible special items that may occur in fiscal 2004 or in future fiscal years is not currently available to Registrant's management. Special items in fiscal 2003 included charges related to employee severance, facility consolidations and the early retirement of debt. Some or all of these charges could recur in fiscal 2004 and/or future fiscal years. Additionally, other special items could occur in fiscal 2004 and/or future fiscal years.
 
Item 7. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
 
 
 
 AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported record results for its fiscal fourth quarter and year ended September 30, 2003. The following results are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
VALLEY FORGE, PA, November 5, 2003
 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2003 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
"In our second full fiscal year as AmerisourceBergen, we built on last year's momentum to deliver exceptional performance," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's Chief Executive Officer. "We achieved solid results across all of our businesses as we continued to enhance our role in the pharmaceutical supply channel. Double-digit operating margin expansion for the fiscal year was driven by strong, disciplined growth in operating revenue combined with record operating expense efficiency and a solid contribution from our recent acquisitions. This performance resulted in record operating income and excellent earnings per share growth."
News Release
 
Discussion of Results
 
Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 were $1.04, a 21 percent increase over the $0.86 in the prior year's fourth quarter. Included in these results were special charges, net of tax, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 of $1.5 million for facility consolidations and employee severance and a $2.3 million special charge, net of tax, in the same period of the previous fiscal year for merger integration activities. The earnings per share impact of the special charges was a decrease of $0.01 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and a decrease of $0.02 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002.
 
AmerisourceBergen's operating revenue in the fourth quarter was $11.7 billion, a 13 percent increase over the $10.4 billion in the previous year's fourth quarter. Bulk deliveries in the quarter decreased to $0.9 billion from $1.2 billion in the prior fiscal year's fourth quarter, reflecting the conversion of bulk business into operating revenue earlier in fiscal 2003.
 
For fiscal year 2003, diluted earnings per share were $3.89, a 23 percent increase over the $3.16 reported last fiscal year. Special charges, net of tax, related to facility consolidations and employee severance and the retirement of debt in fiscal 2003 and merger costs in fiscal 2002 resulted in a net decrease in earnings per share of $0.07 and $0.13, respectively.
 
Operating revenue in fiscal 2003 increased 13 percent to $45.5 billion from $40.2 billion in the prior fiscal year. Bulk deliveries to customer warehouses decreased to $4.1 billion from $5.0 billion in the prior fiscal year, reflecting the impact of the conversion of bulk business to operating revenue in fiscal 2003.
 
"Our superior operating performance in fiscal 2003 resulted primarily from continued strong merger integration cost savings, excellent growth in our specialty pharmaceuticals business, contributions from recent acquisitions, and record operating performance in PharMerica," said Kurt J. Hilzinger, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Operating Officer.
 
"In pharmaceutical distribution, we continue to capture integration cost savings significantly ahead of schedule," he continued. "During fiscal 2003, we consolidated six distribution centers, including one that had more than $1 billion in revenue, for a total of 13 consolidations since the merger. We also began construction of three new distribution centers during the year, with the first one scheduled to open in the summer of 2004. In fiscal 2004, we expect to consolidate three more of the existing distribution centers and break ground on an additional three new distribution centers. We continue to be on plan and on budget for completing the new distribution system within the next four years."
 
News Release
 
"In our PharMerica segment, continued focus on cost controls and operating practices drove operating margins in the September quarter to over 7 percent for the first time," said Hilzinger. "Operating revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2003 grew 6 percent over the same quarter in the prior fiscal year, as operating earnings growth continues to outpace revenue gains."
 
Segment Review
 
AmerisourceBergen operates in two segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution (which includes AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group) and PharMerica (which includes the long term care pharmacy and workers' compensation businesses). Intersegment operating revenue of $211.2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 from AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation to PharMerica, which is included in the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment operating revenue, is eliminated for consolidated reporting purposes.
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment
 
Operating revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 increased to $11.5 billion compared with $10.2 billion in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2002, a 13 percent increase.
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution customer mix in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 was 58 percent institutional and 42 percent retail. Operating revenue from institutional customers, which include mail order and alternate site facilities, hospitals and specialty pharmaceutical customers, continued to grow significantly faster than operating revenue from retail customers.
 
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, with annualized revenue of nearly $4 billion, continued its strong performance, building leadership positions in the distribution of products and services to physicians in numerous disease states, including oncology, as well as growing its manufacturer services businesses such as reimbursement consulting.
 
Gross profit as a percentage of operating revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 was 3.86 percent, compared to 3.92 percent in the same period in the prior fiscal year. Gross margins were positively impacted by recent acquisitions, which offset in part the negative impacts of customer mix and the competitive environment.
 
Total operating expenses as a percentage of operating revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 were 2.09 percent, an 11 basis point improvement over the same quarter last year, driven by customer mix, merger integration cost savings and operating efficiencies, offset in part by higher expense ratios within recent acquisitions.
 
News Release
 
Operating margins (operating income as a percentage of operating revenue) expanded 5 basis points in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 to 1.77 percent compared to 1.72 percent in the fourth quarter of in the previous fiscal year.
 
PharMerica
 
PharMerica's operating revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 increased 6 percent to $408.4 million from $386.1 million in the previous year's fourth quarter.
 
Operating margin expanded to a record 7.08 percent in the September quarter due primarily to cost control and improved operating practices.
 
Looking Ahead
 
"AmerisourceBergen's long-term guidance is to grow operating revenue with the U.S. pharmaceutical market, which is currently expected to grow 10 percent to 13 percent through 2007, and grow annual earnings per share excluding special items at 15 percent or greater," said Yost. "For the fiscal year ending September 30, 2004, we expect to grow operating revenue in line with the U.S. pharmaceutical market, which is expected to be at the lower end of the four-year range. With our disciplined approach to revenue growth, we expect to grow diluted earnings per share, excluding special items, for fiscal year 2004 at approximately 15 percent, within a range of $4.50 per share to $4.60 per share."
 
Conference Call
 
The Company will host a conference call to discuss the results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on November 5, 2003. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, Chief Executive Officer; Kurt J. Hilzinger, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Michael D. DiCandilo, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 
To access the live conference call via telephone:
 
 
To access the live webcast:
 
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 3:00 p.m. EST on November 5, 2003 to 11:59 p.m. EST on November 12, 2003.
 
News Release
 
To access the replay via telephone:
 
 
To access the archived webcast:
 
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
About AmerisourceBergen
 
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is the largest pharmaceutical services company in the United States dedicated solely to the pharmaceutical supply chain. It is the leading distributor of pharmaceutical products and services to the hospital market, physician's offices, alternate care and mail order facilities, and independent and chain pharmacies. The Company is also a leader in the long term care pharmacy marketplace, the workers' compensation fulfillment business and contract packaging for manufacturers. With more than $45 billion in annualized operating revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 14,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #24 on the Fortune 500 list and was ranked #6 in the 2003 a list of the 50 best performing companies in the S & P 500. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
Business Week 50,
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include statements addressing future financial and operating results of AmerisourceBergen and the benefits and other aspects of the 2001 merger between AmeriSource Health Corporation and Bergen Brunswig Corporation.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer relationships; customer insolvencies; changes in customer mix; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies; regulatory changes; changes in U.S. government policies; failure to integrate the businesses of AmeriSource and Bergen Brunswig successfully; failure to obtain and retain expected synergies from the merger of AmeriSource and Bergen Brunswig; and other economic, business, competitive, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of AmerisourceBergen generally.
 
More detailed information about these factors is set forth in AmerisourceBergen's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2002.
 
AmerisourceBergen is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the periods presented. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period plus the dilutive effect of stock options. Additionally, the diluted earnings per share calculation considers the convertible subordinated notes as if converted and, therefore, the effect of interest expense related to those notes is added back to net income in determining income available to common stockholders.
 


