FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20040210084300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. .
Other Events
 
On February 9, 2004, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing that it has agreed to extend its pharmaceutical distribution contract with AdvancePCS for six months to September 30, 2004. The extension begins April 1, 2004 but can be terminated on 90 days notice. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the extension will continue through September 30, 2004. Sales to AdvancePCS represented more than 6% of the Registrant's pharmaceutical distribution operating revenue in the fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2003.
 
A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC), the largest pharmaceutical services company in the U.S. dedicated solely to the pharmaceutical supply channel, today announced that it has agreed to extend its pharmaceutical distribution contract with AdvancePCS for six months to September 30, 2004. The extension begins April 1, 2004 and can be terminated with 90 days notice.
VALLEY FORGE, Pa. February 9, 2004
 
Under the contract, AmerisourceBergen services AdvancePCS mail order facilities. The AdvancePCS contract represented more than 6 percent of AmerisourceBergen's pharmaceutical distribution operating revenue in the December quarter of 2003.
 
AmerisourceBergen said its diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal year 2004, which ends September 30, 2004, remain unchanged at $4.10 to $4.20, excluding special items.
 
About AmerisourceBergen
 
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE: ABC) is the largest pharmaceutical services company in the United States dedicated solely to the pharmaceutical supply channel. It is the leading distributor of pharmaceutical products and services to the hospital market, physician's offices, alternate care and mail order facilities, and independent and chain pharmacies. The Company is also a leader in the long term care pharmacy marketplace, the workers' compensation fulfillment business and contract packaging for manufacturers. With more than $45 billion in annualized operating revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 14,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #24 on the Fortune 500 list and was ranked #6 in the 2003 a list of the 50 best performing companies in the S & P 500. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
Business Week 50,
 
F-L S
ORWARD
OOKING
TATEMENTS
 
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include statements addressing future financial and operating results of AmerisourceBergen and the benefits and other aspects of the 2001 merger between AmeriSource Health Corporation and Bergen Brunswig Corporation.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer relationships; customer insolvencies; changes in customer mix; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies; regulatory changes; changes in U.S. government policies; failure to integrate the businesses of AmeriSource and Bergen Brunswig successfully; failure to obtain and retain expected synergies from the merger of AmeriSource and Bergen Brunswig; and other economic, business, competitive, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of AmerisourceBergen generally.
More detailed information about these factors is set forth in AmerisourceBergen's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2003.
 
AmerisourceBergen is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


