FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20041202113219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
New Credit Facility
 
On December 2, 2004, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") entered into a $700 million senior unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with JPMorgan Chase, N.A., as administrative agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as co-lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, Wachovia Bank, National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as documentation agents, and various commercial lenders.
 
The Credit Agreement consists of a revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Facility") maturing in December 2009. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Agreement accrues, at the Registrant's option, at either LIBOR or the greater of prime and the federal funds rate, or ABR, plus a specified rate based on the Registrant's debt ratings. Such specified rates range from 0.32% to 1.20% over LIBOR or 0% to 0.20% over ABR. Availability under the Revolving Facility is reduced by the amount of outstanding letters of credit ($63.4 million at November 30, 2004). The Registrant's pays quarterly facility fees to maintain the availability under the Revolving Facility at specified rates based on the Registrant debt ratings ranging from 0.08% to 0.30% of the total commitment under the Revolving Facility. The Credit Agreement contains restrictions on, among other things, additional indebtedness, distributions and dividends to stockholders, investments and loans. Additional covenants require compliance with leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The Registrant may choose to repay its obligations or reduce its commitments under the Credit Agreement at any time. The Registrant's obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by substantially all of our U.S. subsidiaries. The Registrant may use the funds provided under the Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes, investments and acquisitions.
 
Several of the lenders under the Revolving Facility, are lenders and administrative agents under our former $1.3 billion senior secured credit facility, which has been replaced with the Revolving Facility. In addition, certain of the lenders under the Revolving Facility, including Credit Suisse First Boston, Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., perform various financial advisory and investment banking services from time to time for the Registrant and J.P. Morgan Trust Company is serving as the Trustee for the 5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2007 which are intended to be redeemed by Registrant's subsidiary, AmerisourceBergen Services Corporation (as described below in Item 8.01).
 
Amendment to Receivables Securitization Facility
 
On December 2, 2004, the Registrant entered into an amendment relating to the Registrant's $1.05 billion receivables securitization facility ("Receivables Securitization Facility"). Under the terms of the amendment to the Receivables Securitization Facility, among other things, the Registrant increased the size of the tranche with a three-year commitment (the three-year tranche) from $550 million to $700 million, and extended the expiration date of the three-year tranche to December, 2007. The Registrant also extended the expiration date of the tranche with the 364-day commitment (the 364-day tranche) to December, 2005 and decreased the size of the 364-day tranche from $500 million to $350 million. Interest rates are based on prevailing market rates for short-term commercial paper plus a program fee of 75 basis points for the three-year tranche and 35 basis points for the 364-day tranche. The Registrant pays a commitment fee of 25 basis points and 17.5 basis points on any unused credit with respect to the three-year tranche and the 364-day tranche, respectively. The program and commitment fee rates on the three-year tranche will vary based on the Registrant's debt ratings, with program fees ranging from 0.40% to 0.90% and commitment fees ranging from 0.08% and 0.30%. Borrowings and payments under the Receivables Securitization Facility are applied on a pro-rata basis to the three-year tranche and the 364-day tranche. Wachovia Bank, National Association is the administrative agent and a purchasing agent and PNC Bank, National Association, Bank of America, N.A. and The Bank of Nova Scotia are purchaser agents under the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On December 2, 2004, the Registrant issued a news release announcing: (i) the Registrant's Investor Day in Columbus, Ohio (the webcast of which will be accessible through the Investor Relations page of the Registrant's website at ); (ii) the completion of a new $700 million revolving credit facility (as described above in Item 1.01); (iii) the amendment of the Registrant's $1.05 billion securitization program (as described above in Item 1.01); and (iv) the intended redemption by the Registrant's subsidiary, AmerisourceBergen Services Corporation, of its $300 million 5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2007. A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC), one of the largest pharmaceutical services company in the U.S., today announced at its Investor Day in Columbus, Ohio, the completion of a new $700 million revolving credit facility; the amendment of its $1.05 billion securitization program; and the redemption of its $300 million 5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2007.
Valley Forge, Pa. December 2, 2004
 
"Our strong operating cash flow resulting from solid operating performance and the evolution to a new business model has enabled us to considerably improve our capital structure," said Michael D. DiCandilo, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of AmerisourceBergen "The result will be significantly reduced interest expense and greater financial flexibility in the future."
 
The Company has completed the arrangement of a five-year, $700 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that replaces two facilities aggregating $1.18 billion: a $1.0 billion senior secured revolving credit expiring in August 2006 and an amortizing $180 million senior secured term loan facility scheduled to mature in August 2006. The new facility was arranged with substantially improved terms and conditions as compared to the terminated facilities and will expire on December 2, 2009. The Company has obtained the new facility for general corporate purposes.
 
The Company has also completed the amendment of it's $1.05 billion securitization program for the Company's trade receivables. The ammended program provides $700 million under a three-year revolving tranche and $350 million under a 364-day revolving tranche. The program was amended in order to improve the terms and conditions under the original program.
 
The Company also announced that its subsidiary, AmerisourceBergen Services Corporation, will redeem all of its outstanding $300 million 5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2007 (CUSIP No03071PAB8 and CUSIP No. 03071PAD4), at the redemption price of 102.143% of the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued interest on January 3, 2005. Notification of redemption was mailed on December 2, 2004.
.
 
Questions regarding the redemption notice should be addressed to J.P. Morgan Chase, the redemption agent and trustee, at 800-275-2048.
 
The Company is hosting an Investor Day today at the Company's new distribution center in Columbus, Ohio. The meeting will be webcast beginning at 11:30 am EST, and will end at approximately 2:00 pm EST. The webcast will be accessible through the Investor Relations page of , and will remain available as a replay for approximately 30 days.
www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
About AmerisourceBergen
 
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is one of the largest pharmaceutical services companies in the United States. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation, bedside medication safety systems, and pharmaceutical packaging to pharmacy services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, and physician education. With more than $48 billion in operating revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 14,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #22 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
 
 
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include statements addressing AmerisourceBergen's future financial and operating results.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer relationships; customer insolvencies; changes in customer mix; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; regulatory changes; changes in U.S. government policies (including changes in government policies pertaining to drug reimbursement); changes in market interest rates; and other economic, business, competitive, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of AmerisourceBergen generally.
 
More detailed information about these factors is set forth in AmerisourceBergen's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2003.
 
AmerisourceBergen is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


