FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20050110084053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On January 7, 2005, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing that its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will speak at the 23
rd
Annual JPMorgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco, California. The presentation will take place at 3:30 pm Pacific Standard Time on January 11, 2005, and will be accessible via a live audio webcast by following the link at or at . A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
www.amerisourcebergen.com
http://equityconferences.jpmorgan.com
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
99.1 News Release dated January 7, 2005
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today announced that its Chief Executive Officer, R. David Yost and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Michael D. DiCandilo will speak at the 23
VALLEY FORGE, PA, January 7, 2005
rd
Annual JPMorgan Healthcare Conference at the Westin St. Francis Hotel in San Francisco, CA. The presentation will take place at 3:30 pm Pacific Standard Time on January 11, 2005, and will be accessible via a live audio webcast by following the link at or at . The slides from the presentation will be posted on the investor presentations section of the AmerisourceBergen website for approximately 30 days.
www.amerisourcebergen.com
http://equityconferences.jpmorgan.com
 
About AmerisourceBergen
 
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is one of the largest pharmaceutical services companies in the United States. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation, bedside medication safety systems, and pharmaceutical packaging to pharmacy services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, and physician education. With more than $48 billion in operating revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 14,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #22 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
 
F-L S
ORWARD
OOKING
TATEMENTS
 
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include statements addressing AmerisourceBergen's future financial and operating results.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer relationships; customer insolvencies; changes in customer mix; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; regulatory changes; changes in U.S. government policies (including changes in government policies pertaining to drug reimbursement); changes in market interest rates; and other economic, business, competitive, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of AmerisourceBergen generally.
 
More detailed information about these factors is set forth in AmerisourceBergen's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2004.
 
AmerisourceBergen is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


