FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20051006164836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 3, 2005, a wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary (the "Borrower") of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") entered into a CAN$135 million senior unsecured credit facility (the "Canadian Credit Agreement"), with the Registrant, as guarantor, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as administrative agent and lead arranger, and various commercial lenders.
 
The Canadian Credit Agreement consists of a revolving credit facility (the "Canadian Revolving Facility") maturing in December 2009. Interest on borrowings under the Canadian Credit Agreement accrues, at the Borrower's option, at (1) LIBOR, (2) the greater of the administrative agent's U.S. prime rate and the federal funds rate, or ABR, or (3) the administrative agent's Canadian prime rate, or CPR, plus a specified rate based on the Borrower's debt ratings. Such specified rates range from 0.32% to 1.20% over LIBOR and 0% to 0.20% over ABR or CPR. In addition, the BA Stamping Fee payable in respect of Bankers' Acceptance borrowings under the Canadian Revolving Facility range from 0.32% to 1.20% over a base rate based on the Borrower's debt ratings. Availability under the Canadian Revolving Facility is reduced by the amount of outstanding letters of credit. The Borrower will pay quarterly facility fees to maintain the availability under the Canadian Revolving Facility at specified rates based on the Borrower's debt ratings ranging from 0.08% to 0.30% of the total commitment under the Canadian Revolving Facility. The Canadian Credit Agreement contains restrictions on, among other things, additional indebtedness, distributions and dividends to stockholders, investments and loans. Additional covenants require compliance with leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The Borrower may choose to repay its obligations or reduce its commitments under the Canadian Credit Agreement at any time. The Borrower's obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by the Registrant.
 
The Borrower may use the funds provided under the Canadian Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes, investments and acquisitions. The Canadian Credit Facility was used to fund the acquisition by the Borrower of Trent Drugs (Wholesale) Ltd. and will be available to fund the ongoing activities of the company in Canada.
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On October 4, 2005, the Registrant, through the Borrower, acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Trent Drugs (Wholesale) Ltd., one of the largest national pharmaceutical distributors in Canada from the shareholders of the closely held company. The purchase price was approximately US$83 million, including the assumption of debt of approximately US$43 million. The acquisition was financed with borrowings by the Borrower under the Canadian Credit Agreement (as described above). In connection with the acquisition, the Borrower and Trent Drugs (Wholesale) Ltd. were amalgamated under Canadian law, with the resulting entity continuing to operate as Trent Drugs (Wholesale) Ltd. A copy of the news release issued on October 5, 2005 by the Registrant regarding the acquisition is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1        News Release dated October 5, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today announced it has acquired Trent Drugs (Wholesale) Ltd, one of the largest national pharmaceutical distributors in Canada for a purchase price of approximately US$83 million, which includes the assumption of debt of approximately US$43 million. AmerisourceBergen anticipates Trent will be accretive to fiscal year 2006 earnings per share by approximately $0.01 to $0.02.
VALLEY FORGE, Pa. October 5, 2005
 
"Trent's national coverage and its management team provide a solid foundation for expanding our pharmaceutical distribution capability into the Canadian marketplace," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen Chief Executive Officer. "Trent is a logical expansion of our pharmaceutical distribution business and continues AmerisourceBergen's strategic focus on the pharmaceutical supply channel."
 
"We are excited about joining AmerisourceBergen and continuing the rapid growth of our distribution business in Canada," said Richard Normandeau, who will remain Trent President and has joined AmerisourceBergen as Regional Vice President, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation in Canada reporting directly to Terrance Haas, Senior Vice President and President of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation. "AmerisourceBergen's financial strength, distribution expertise, and unique retail programs enhance our ability to continue to offer our customers superior service and distribution capability."
 
Headquartered in Kingston, Ontario, Trent generated about US$500 million in revenue over the last twelve months. Trent distributes pharmaceuticals in the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, British Columbia, and the Atlantic provinces, which represent approximately 80 percent of the Canadian population. Founded in 1986 by Mahen J. Acharya, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the company has a strong presence in the Canadian retail pharmacy market, and is focused on growing its hospital business. Mr. Acharya has left the company to pursue other interests.
 
AmerisourceBergen financed the acquisition with borrowings under a new CDN$135 million credit facility that will be available as well for general corporate purposes related to the Company's new Canadian operations.
 
About AmerisourceBergen
 
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is one of the largest pharmaceutical services companies in the United States. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to pharmacy services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, and physician education. With more than $54 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 14,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #23 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
 
F-L S
ORWARD
OOKING
TATEMENTS
 
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include statements addressing AmerisourceBergen's future financial and operating results and the benefits, efficiencies and savings to be derived from the Company's integration plans to consolidate its distribution network.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; customer defaults or insolvencies; changes in customer mix; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other disputes with customers (including departments and agencies of the U.S. Government) or suppliers; regulatory changes; changes in U.S. government policies (including reimbursement changes arising from the Medicare Modernization Act); market interest rates; operational or control issues arising from AmerisourceBergen's outsourcing of information technology activities; success of the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment's ability to transition its business model to fee-for-service; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; fluctuations in the U.S. dollar  Canadian dollar exchange rate; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada; acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of AmerisourceBergen generally.
 
More detailed information about these and other risk factors is set forth in AmerisourceBergen's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2004.
 
AmerisourceBergen is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


