FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20050421095613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On April 21, 2005, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Contact:    Michael N. Kilpatric
                    610-727-7118
                    
mkilpatric@amerisourcebergen.com
 
 
 AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported results for its fiscal second quarter ended March 31, 2005. The following results are presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
VALLEY FORGE, PA, April 21, 2005
 
Fiscal Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal First Six Months Highlights
 
 
 
 
"Although we were disappointed in our financial performance for the quarter, we remain optimistic about improving our operating margin and are encouraged by our strong cash position," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's Chief Executive Officer. "Our transition to a fee-for-service model with our manufacturers has created a challenging year, but we are making solid progress and expect to have this transition largely complete by the end of calendar year 2005. The lower inventories in the new model and our disciplined working capital management produced excellent cash generation and the strongest balance sheet in our history. Operating revenue in pharmaceutical distribution was down less than 1 percent despite the loss of two large customers that accounted for 12 percent of operating
revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. We are enthusiastic about the future as we continue to grow our specialty business, complete our new distribution network, capture new generic opportunities, implement our margin enhancement activities and look to fully participate in the growth generated by the Medicare Modernization Act in 2006."
 
Discussion of Results
 
The results for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal year 2005 were both impacted by a change in the way the Company accounts for cash discounts and other related manufacturer incentives. Previously, AmerisourceBergen recognized these cash discounts as a reduction in cost of goods sold when earned, which was typically at the time the Company paid for the inventory. The Company now records these cash discounts as a component of inventory cost and recognizes them as a reduction to cost of goods sold when the related products are sold. With AmerisourceBergen's move to a fee-for-service relationship with manufacturers, the new method provides a more objectively determinable method of recognizing cash discounts and a better matching of inventory cost to revenue, as inventory turnover rates are expected to continue to improve.
 
The impact of this change in accounting, effective at the beginning of fiscal 2005, is a one-time cumulative effect charge of $10.2 million, net of tax, or $0.09 per diluted share, which is reflected in the six-month results ended March 31, 2005. In addition to the cumulative effect, the new method resulted in an increase in income from continuing operations in the March quarter of $12.2 million, net of tax, or $0.11 per diluted share; and income from continuing operations in the December quarter of fiscal 2005 was revised to reflect a charge of $3.3 million, net of tax, or $0.03 per diluted share. See the attached table for further illustration.
 
In the March quarter of fiscal 2005, AmerisourceBergen's operating revenue was $12.2 billion compared to $12.3 billion for the same period last year. Bulk deliveries in the quarter decreased 7 percent to $0.9 billion.
 
Consolidated operating income in the March quarter declined 30 percent to $181.7 million primarily due to reduced buy-side profits in the pharmaceutical distribution segment.
 
Below the consolidated operating income line, "Other loss" of $4.9 million in the quarter is primarily due to the write down of certain technology related intangible assets.
 
Interest expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2005 was a record low $14.5 million compared to $30.9 million in the prior year's second quarter, a 53 percent decrease driven by debt reduction.
 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.91 in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, compared to $1.23 (also $1.23 on a pro forma basis for the accounting change) in the
 
previous fiscal year's second quarter. Included in the results are a $1.1 million special charge, net of tax, in the second quarter of fiscal 2005 and a $1.4 million special charge, net of tax, in the same period of the previous fiscal year. Both the charges are for facility consolidations and employee severance and both decreased diluted earnings per share by $0.01.
 
Diluted average shares outstanding for the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 were 110.2 million. During the March quarter, AmerisourceBergen used the remaining $102 million under its $500 million share repurchase program authorized in August 2004 to purchase 1.7 million shares, and completed the purchase of all of the 5.7 million shares under its repurchase program established in February 2005.
 
Discontinued operations in the March quarter reflect an additional $0.6 million loss, net of tax, from the sale of the Company's Rita Ann cosmetics distribution business, announced in the December quarter.
 
Cash generated from operations in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 was a record $1.1 billion, compared to $476 million in the prior year's second quarter, due primarily to lower working capital levels.
 
For the first six months of fiscal 2005, AmerisourceBergen's operating revenue was $24.4 billion compared to $24.6 billion for the same period last year. Bulk deliveries in the first half of the fiscal year increased 13 percent to $2.4 billion.
 
Consolidated operating income in the first six months of the fiscal year declined 33 percent to $313.3 million primarily due to reduced buy-side profits in the pharmaceutical distribution segment.
 
For the first six months of fiscal 2005 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of the change in accounting were $1.53, compared to $2.18 ($2.14 on a pro forma basis for the accounting change) in the same six-month period last year.
 
"Significant initiatives are underway to improve our operating margins and better position us for the opportunities ahead," said Kurt J. Hilzinger, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Operating Officer. "In our transition to fee-for-service relationships, we continue to sign new manufacturer agreements which we expect to improve the stability and predictability of our earnings.
 
"During the March quarter, our Specialty Group continued to enjoy solid growth. Our market-leading oncology businesses had another strong quarter and our commercialization businesses continued to win new manufacturer contracts. The Packaging Group delivered solid results on its growing pipeline of contract packaging programs for manufacturers and further expanded its customized packaging solutions for healthcare providers."
 
"In the Drug Corporation, our Optimiz
TM
program, which is designed to lower our operating costs, continued on schedule and on budget. Our new Dallas, Texas, facility, the third of our six new distribution centers, opened this quarter and is fully operational. Coupled with our new warehouse management system, the new network will drive additional cost savings and improved customer service in the future. In the quarter we began implementation of our Transform program designed to improve profitability from our healthcare provider customers."
 
"In our PharMerica segment, we continue to face a difficult competitive environment, and in response are making significant progress in reducing the segment's operating expenses. Our new customer-facing technology continues to win new customers in our long-term care business, and our more than $30 million of technology investments in the segment are beginning to deliver results," said Hilzinger.
 
Segment Review
 
AmerisourceBergen operates in two segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution (which includes the operations of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Specialty, Packaging, and Technology groups) and PharMerica (which includes the long-term care pharmacy and workers' compensation businesses). Intersegment sales of $218 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005 from AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation to PharMerica, which are included in the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment operating revenue, are eliminated for consolidated reporting purposes.
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment
 
Operating revenue of $12.1 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2005 was down 1 percent compared to the same quarter in the previous fiscal year.
 
Led by strong growth in the Specialty Group, the Company was able to largely offset the impact of the prior year's loss of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and AdvancePCS contracts. The two contract losses accounted for 12 percent of segment operating revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Lower than anticipated buy-side contribution due to the ongoing transition to a new manufacturer compensation model based on fees and a competitive environment, including the VA impact, reduced gross profit and operating margins in the quarter.
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution customer mix in the second quarter of fiscal 2005 was 56 percent institutional and 44 percent retail.
 
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group continued its excellent performance with annualized operating revenue of more than $6 billion. The Group continues to build on its leadership position in the distribution of products and services to physicians in numerous disease states, including its industry
 
leading position in oncology. The Group also continues to grow its manufacturer services businesses, including third party logistics, reimbursement consulting and physician education.
 
PharMerica
 
PharMerica's operating revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2005 was $391.1 million, essentially flat compared to the previous year's second quarter. Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2005 was $32.0 million, up 13 percent from $28.2 million for the same quarter last year reflecting a $4.0 million reduction in sales tax liability, supplier initiatives and expense control. The Company continues to expect revenues in the segment to be flat for the 2005 fiscal year. Operating margins are expected to be in the high end of the 6 percent to 7 percent range.
 
Looking Ahead
 
"Our expectations for fiscal 2005 remain unchanged from our March announcement," said Yost. "We continue to expect operating revenue growth in fiscal year 2005 to be flat at about $49 billion, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of the accounting change for fiscal 2005 of between $3.10 and $3.50 on a GAAP basis. Though we begin our detailed planning process for the next fiscal year during this quarter, we currently estimate earnings per share from continuing operations in fiscal 2006 to be between $3.60 and $4.40, also on a GAAP basis. The bottom of the range reflects pharmaceutical market growth in the high single digits and the full-year impact of fiscal 2005 capital deployment initiatives. The top of the range depends on our ability to improve our pharmaceutical distribution operating margin, expected to be in the 100 to 110 basis points range in fiscal 2005, by 30 basis points through margin enhancement activities including those mentioned above."
 
Conference Call
 
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on April 21, 2005. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, Chief Executive Officer; Kurt J. Hilzinger, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Michael D. DiCandilo, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 
To access the live conference call via telephone:
 
Dial in: 612-326-1029, no access code required.
 
To access the live webcast:
 
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 2:30 p.m. April 21, 2005 until 11:59 p.m. April 28, 2005. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
 
To access the replay via telephone:
 
 
To access the archived webcast:
 
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
About AmerisourceBergen
 
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is one of the largest pharmaceutical services companies in the United States. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation, bedside medication safety systems, and pharmaceutical packaging to pharmacy services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, and physician education. With more than $48 billion in operating revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 14,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #23 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include statements addressing AmerisourceBergen's future financial and operating results.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer relationships; customer insolvencies; changes in customer mix; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; regulatory changes; changes in U.S. government policies (including changes in government policies pertaining to drug reimbursement); changes in market interest rates; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of AmerisourceBergen generally.
 
More detailed information about these and other risk factors is set forth in AmerisourceBergen's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2004.
 
AmerisourceBergen is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the periods presented. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period plus the dilutive effect of stock options. Additionally, the diluted earnings per share calculation considers the convertible subordinated notes as if converted and, therefore, the effect of interest expense related to those notes is added back to net income in determining income from continuing operations available to common stockholders.
 
 
Effective as of the beginning of fiscal 2005, the Company changed its method of recognizing cash discounts and other related manufacturer incentives. The Company previously recognized cash discounts as a reduction of cost of goods sold when earned, primarily upon payment of vendor invoices. As a result of the change, the Company now records cash discounts as a component of inventory cost and recognizes such discounts as a reduction to cost of goods sold upon the sale of the inventory. With the change to a fee-for-service model, the Company believes the change in accounting method provides a more objectively determinable method of recognizing cash discounts and a better matching of inventory cost to revenue, as inventory turnover rates are expected to continue to improve.
 
The Company recorded a $10.2 million (net of tax of $6.3 million) cumulative effect of change in accounting in the consolidated statement of operations. This $10.2 million cumulative effect adjustment reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.09 for the six months ended March 31, 2005. The Company also adjusted its previously reported consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2004 for this accounting change. The change decreased earnings from continuing operations for the December quarter by approximately $3.3 million, net of tax, or $0.03 per diluted share from continuing operations. The accounting change is incorporated in the Company's results for the three months ended March 31, 2005, and the change improved earnings from continuing operations in the March quarter by approximately $12.2 million, net of tax, or $0.11 per diluted share from continuing operations.
 
The pro forma effect of this accounting change on prior periods is as follows:
 


