FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20061027162859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 25, 2006, AmerisourceBergen Corporation ("AmerisourceBergen"), Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred"), PharMerica, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of AmerisourceBergen ("PharMerica"), Kindred Pharmacy Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kindred ("KPS"), Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc., Safari Holding Corporation, Hippo Merger Corporation and Rhino Merger Corporation entered into a Master Transaction Agreement (the "Agreement") pursuant to which AmerisourceBergen and Kindred will combine their respective institutional pharmacy businesses into a new and independent publicly traded company ("Newco"). A copy of the news release announcing the transaction is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the Agreement, AmerisourceBergen will spin-off PharMerica to the shareholders of AmerisourceBergen and Kindred will spin-off KPS to the shareholders of Kindred, followed immediately thereafter by stock-for-stock mergers of PharMerica and KPS such that PharMerica and KPS will become wholly-owned subsidiaries of Newco. Upon consummation of the mergers, shareholders of AmerisourceBergen and Kindred will each own 50% of Newco. Prior to the spin-offs, PharMerica and KPS will each make a one-time cash distribution of up to $150 million, subject to potential adjustments, to AmerisourceBergen and Kindred, respectively. The spin-off of PharMerica is intended to be tax-free to AmerisourceBergen and its shareholders, and the spin-off of KPS is intended to be tax-free to Kindred and its shareholders. The Agreement provides that at closing of the transaction, AmerisourceBergen will enter into a pharmaceutical distribution agreement with Newco, and Kindred will enter into an agreement to provide information and support services to Newco. The Agreement also provides that at closing Kindred, AmerisourceBergen and Newco will enter into agreements for the provision of certain transition services for a limited transition period following consummation of the transaction.
Consummation of the transaction is subject to a number of conditions, including the effectiveness of a registration statement with respect to the shares of Newco common stock, receipt of governmental approvals, receipt of financing for Newco and for the one-time cash distributions to AmerisourceBergen and Kindred, and receipt of a favorable determination from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the tax-free nature of the transaction. There can be no assurance that all conditions to completion of the transaction will be met.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1        News Release dated October 26, 2006
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (NYSE: KND) today announced that they have signed a definitive agreement to combine their respective institutional pharmacy businesses, PharMerica Long-Term Care ("PharMerica LTC") and Kindred Pharmacy Services ("KPS"), into a new, independent, publicly traded company. As previously announced in August 2006, the transaction is intended to be tax-free to shareholders of both AmerisourceBergen and Kindred, and the transaction is expected to be completed in the first calendar quarter of 2007.
Valley Forge, PA, and Louisville, KY, October 26, 2006
The new company will be the second largest in the institutional pharmacy services market with revenues of approximately $1.9 billion and a customer base of approximately 330,000 licensed beds in 41 states. Preliminary synergy cost savings from the combination continue to be estimated at approximately $30 million.
Paul J. Diaz, Kindred President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Completion of the definitive agreement is a major step in creating the new company and unlocking greater value for our shareholders. The new company will join two companies with shared values centered on customers, employees, and patients. Upon completion of this transaction, Kindred's assets and resources will be concentrated on its hospital, nursing center and contract rehabilitation businesses."
 
"Signing the definitive agreement is the critical milestone in building this new company and opening up opportunities for shareholders, associates and customers," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen Chief Executive Officer. "We are taking the best of both organizations and building a strong national player in a growing market. With this transaction, AmerisourceBergen will be in a stronger position to focus on pharmaceutical distribution, specialty pharmaceutical distribution and related services, and other pharmaceutical supply channel services such as packaging."
Summary of Proposed Transaction:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to be completed, the proposed transaction will require review of a registration statement for the new company by the Securities and Exchange Commission and a favorable determination by the Internal Revenue Service. The proposed transaction also is subject to the satisfaction of several closing conditions, including obtaining financing for the transactions and the new company. There can be no assurance that all conditions to completion of the transaction will be met.
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States and Canada. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to pharmacy services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, and physician education. With nearly $60 billion in annualized revenues, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 13,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #27 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
About Kindred Healthcare
Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (NYSE: KND), is a Fortune 500 healthcare services company, based in Louisville, Kentucky, with annualized revenues of $4.3 billion that provides services in over 500 locations in 39 states. Kindred through its subsidiaries operates long-term acute care hospitals, skilled nursing centers, institutional pharmacies and a contract rehabilitation services business, People Rehabilitation Services, across the United States. Kindred's 56,000 employees are committed to providing high quality patient care and outstanding customer service to become the most trusted and respected provider of healthcare services in every community we serve. For more information, go to
first
www.kindredhealthcare.com
AmerisourceBergen Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the
expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements herein include statements addressing management's views with respect to future financial and operating results and the benefits, efficiencies and savings to be derived from the Company's integration plan to consolidate its distribution network. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; customer defaults or insolvencies; changes in customer mix; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other disputes with customers (including departments and agencies of the U.S. Government) or suppliers; regulatory changes; changes in U.S. government policies (including reimbursement changes arising from the Medicare Modernization Act); declines in the amounts of market share rebates offered by pharmaceutical manufacturers to the PharMerica long-term care business, declines in the amounts of rebates that the PharMerica Long-Term Care business can retain, and/or the inability of the business to offset the rebate reductions that have already occurred or any rebate reductions that may occur in the future; any disruption to or other adverse effects upon the PharMerica Long-Term Care business caused by the announcement of the Company's agreement to combine the PharMerica Long-Term Care business with the institutional pharmacy business of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. into a new public company that will be owned 50% by the Company's shareholders (the "PharMerica LTC Transaction"); the inability of the Company to successfully complete the PharMerica LTC Transaction; fluctuations in market interest rates; operational or control issues arising from the Company's outsourcing of information technology activities; the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment's ability to continue to successfully transition its business model to fee-for-service; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; fluctuations in the U.S. dollar  Canadian dollar exchange rate and other foreign exchange rates; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of the Company generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1 (Business) under the heading "Certain Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Kindred Healthcare Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements regarding Kindred's expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management and statements containing the words such as "anticipate," "approximate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "project," "could," "should," "will," "intend," "may" and other similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Statements in this press release concerning the new company's business outlook or future economic performance, anticipated profitability, revenues, expenses or other financial items, anticipated cost synergies, economies of scale and product or service line growth, together with other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements reflecting the best judgment of Kindred based upon currently available information.
Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and stockholders and other potential investors must recognize that actual results may differ materially from Kindred's expectations as a result of a variety of factors, including, without limitation, those discussed below. Such forward-looking statements are based upon management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which Kindred is unable to predict or control, that may cause Kindred's actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed below and detailed from time to time in Kindred's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition to the factors set forth above, other factors that may affect Kindred's plans or results include, without limitation, (a) Kindred's and AmerisourceBergen's ability to complete the proposed merger of their respective institutional pharmacy operations, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other closing conditions to the proposed transaction; (b) Kindred's ability to operate pursuant to the terms of its debt obligations and its master leases with Ventas, Inc. (NYSE:VTR); (c) Kindred's ability to meet its rental and debt service obligations; (d) adverse developments with respect to Kindred's results of operations or liquidity; (e) Kindred's ability to attract and retain key executives and other healthcare personnel; (f) increased operating costs due to shortages in qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare personnel; (g) the effects of healthcare reform and government regulations, interpretation of regulations and changes in the nature and enforcement of regulations governing the healthcare industry; (h) changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, changes arising from and related to the Medicare prospective payment system for long-term acute care hospitals, including the final Medicare payment rules issued in May 2006, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, and changes in Medicare and
Medicaid reimbursements for Kindred's nursing centers; (i) national and regional economic conditions, including their effect on the availability and cost of labor, materials and other services; (j) Kindred's ability to control costs, particularly labor and employee benefit costs; (k) Kindred's ability to successfully pursue its development activities and successfully integrate new operations, including the realization of anticipated revenues, economies of scale, cost savings and productivity gains associated with such operations; (l) the increase in the costs of defending and insuring against alleged professional liability claims and Kindred's ability to predict the estimated costs related to such claims; (m) Kindred's ability to successfully reduce (by divestiture of operations or otherwise) its exposure to professional liability claims; (n) Kindred's ability to successfully dispose of unprofitable facilities; and (o) Kindred's ability to ensure and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting. Many of these factors are beyond Kindred's control. Kindred cautions investors that any forward-looking statements made by Kindred are not guarantees of future performance. Kindred disclaims any obligation to update any such factors or to announce publicly the results of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.


