FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20061114125452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(e). Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The executive officers of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") participate in the Registrant's annual incentive plan ("AIP"), an annual cash bonus program. On November 8, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the AIP performance criteria for the Registrant's executive officers for fiscal year 2007.
In the case of the Registrant's executive officers, the Registrant seeks to align AIP payments primarily with the achievement of measurable Registrant and/or business group financial performance criteria and secondarily with the achievement of non-financial, individual criteria. Consistent with the Registrant's policies, financial performance criteria will be the primary determinant of each executive officer's AIP eligibility for fiscal year 2007. The financial performance criteria include various combinations of the following for each executive officer: earnings per share and return on committed capital at the Registrant level and, to the extent applicable for the particular executive officer, earnings before interest and taxes and return on committed capital at the business group level. The AIP performance criteria for fiscal year 2007 also include certain non-financial, individual objectives in the case of each executive officer. The target incentive levels for the executive officers under the AIP for fiscal year 2007 range from 100% to 120% of base salary.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On November 9, 2006, the Registrant issued a news release announcing a 100% increase in its quarterly dividend to $0.05 per share of common stock. The details of the dividend increase are set forth in the news release.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1    News Release dated November 9, 2006 regarding Dividend Increase.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 91.1
 
 
The Board of Directors of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today announced a 100 percent increase in the quarterly dividend rate to $0.05 per common share from $0.025 per common share.
VALLEY FORGE, Pa. November 9, 2006
R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen Chief Executive Officer, said, "The doubling of the dividend reflects continued confidence in our performance and our disciplined use of cash to deliver long-term value to our shareholders."
The quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share of common stock is payable December 4, 2006, to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 20, 2006.
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to pharmacy services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, and physician education. With more than $61 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 14,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #27 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
Forward Looking Statement
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements herein include statements addressing management's views with respect to future financial and operating results and the benefits, efficiencies and savings to be derived from the Company's integration plan to consolidate its distribution network. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; customer defaults or insolvencies; changes in customer mix; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other disputes with customers (including departments and agencies of the U.S. Government) or suppliers; regulatory changes; changes in U.S. government policies (including reimbursement changes arising from the Medicare Modernization Act); declines in the amounts of market share rebates offered by pharmaceutical manufacturers to the PharMerica Long-Term Care business, declines in the amounts of rebates that the PharMerica Long-Term Care business can retain, and/or the inability of the business to offset the rebate reductions that have already occurred or any rebate reductions that may occur in the future; any disruption to or other adverse effects
upon the PharMerica Long-Term Care business caused by the announcement of the Company's agreement to combine the PharMerica Long-Term Care business with the institutional pharmacy business of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. into a new public company that will be owned 50% by the Company's shareholders (the "PharMerica LTC Transaction"); the inability of the Company to successfully complete the PharMerica LTC Transaction; fluctuations in market interest rates; operational or control issues arising from the Company's outsourcing of information technology activities; the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment's ability to continue to successfully transition its business model to fee-for-service; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; fluctuations in the U.S. dollar  Canadian dollar exchange rate and other foreign exchange rates; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of the Company generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1 (Business) under the heading "Certain Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


