FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20061201135247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On December 1, 2006, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant" issued a new release announcing that it acquired all of the outstanding stock of Access M.D., Inc. ("AMD") for approximately US$12.9 million in cash. AMD is a Canadian company that provides services to manufacturers of specialty pharmaceuticals and that expects revenues for calendar 2006 of approximately US$6 million. A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today announced that it has acquired all of the outstanding stock of Access M.D., Inc. ("AMD") for approximately US$12.9 million in cash. AMD is a Canadian company providing services, including reimbursement support programs, third-party logistics and nursing support services, to manufacturers of specialty pharmaceuticals, such as injectable and biological therapies. The acquisition is expected to be immaterial to the Company's fiscal year 2007 earnings.
Valley Forge, Pa,
December 1
, 2006 
"AMD is a strategic acquisition that allows us to expand our specialty pharmaceutical services into the Canadian market, where we have a strong pharmaceutical distribution business," said R. David Yost, Chief Executive Officer of AmerisourceBergen. "AMD's reputation for quality and service provides a firm foundation for AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group's entry into this new market."
Based in Montreal, Canada, Access M.D. will become part of the AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group and provide an opportunity for manufacturers to coordinate and leverage patient access programs across the US and Canada.
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to pharmacy services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, and physician education. With more than $61 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 14,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #27 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
Forward Looking Statement
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements herein include statements addressing management's views with respect to future financial and operating results and the benefits, efficiencies and savings to be derived from the Company's integration plan to consolidate its distribution network. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; customer defaults or insolvencies; changes in customer mix; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other disputes with customers (including departments and agencies of the U.S. Government) or suppliers; regulatory changes; changes in U.S. government policies (including reimbursement changes arising from the Medicare Modernization Act); declines in the amounts of market share rebates offered by pharmaceutical manufacturers to the PharMerica Long-Term Care business, declines in the amounts of rebates that the PharMerica Long-Term Care business can retain, and/or the inability of the business to offset the rebate reductions that have already occurred or any rebate reductions that may occur in the future; any disruption to or other adverse effects upon the PharMerica Long-Term Care business caused by the announcement of the Company's agreement to combine the PharMerica Long-Term Care business with the institutional pharmacy business of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. into a new public company that will be owned 50% by the Company's shareholders (the "PharMerica LTC Transaction"); the inability of the Company to successfully complete the PharMerica LTC Transaction; fluctuations in market interest rates; operational or control issues arising from the Company's outsourcing of information technology activities; the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment's ability to continue to successfully transition its business model to fee-for-service; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; fluctuations in the U.S. dollar - Canadian dollar exchange rate and other foreign exchange rates; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of the Company generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1 (Business) under the heading "Certain Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


