FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20061213142043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On December 13, 2006, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release in which it reaffirmed its previous fiscal year 2007 guidance and announced the webcast of its Investor Day Meeting in New York City later the same day. The Registrant indicated that the presentation would be accessible via audio webcast by going to the Webcasts section of the Investor Relations page at . A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and a copy of the slides presented at the Investor Day Meeting is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report. Both Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are incorporated herein by reference.
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today will reaffirm its previous fiscal year 2007 guidance at its Investor Day Meeting in New York City. The Company is hosting a webcast of the meeting today beginning at 12:30 pm Eastern Standard Time.
Valley Forge, Pa, December 13, 2006 
The Company continues to expect diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2007 to be between $2.40 and $2.55. The PharMerica Long Term Care business, which the Company currently expects to spin off in the March quarter of 2007, represents $0.09 to $0.11 of the Company's earnings expectations for all of fiscal year 2007.
Also unchanged are the key assumptions supporting the Company's diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal 2007, which are: operating revenue growth between 7 percent and 9 percent, at the high end of market growth due to its specialty pharmaceuticals business and completed acquisitions; operating margin expansion in the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment; and free cash flow in the range of $425 million to $500 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $100 million to $125 million range. The Company also anticipates spending $450 million to $500 million to repurchase its common shares during fiscal year 2007.
AmerisourceBergen will webcast its Investor Day Meeting today beginning at 12:30 pm Eastern Standard Time through approximately 3:30 pm. Participating in the meeting will be: R. David Yost, Chief Executive Officer; Kurt J. Hilzinger, President and Chief Operating Officer; Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Terrance P. Haas, Senior Vice President and President of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation; and Steven H. Collis, Senior Vice President and President AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group. To access the live webcast, go to the Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at . A replay of the webcast will be available for 30 days.
www.amerisourcebergen.com
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to pharmacy services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, and physician education. With more than $60 billion in annualized revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 13,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #27 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
F-L S
ORWARD
OOKING
TATEMENTS
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements herein include statements addressing management's views with respect to future financial and operating results and the benefits, efficiencies and savings to be derived from the Company's integration plan to consolidate its distribution network. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; customer defaults or insolvencies; changes in customer mix; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other disputes with customers (including departments and agencies of the U.S. Government) or suppliers; regulatory changes (including increased government regulation of the pharmaceutical supply channel); changes in U.S. government policies (including reimbursement changes arising from federal legislation, including the Medicare Modernization Act and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005); price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; declines in the amounts of market share rebates offered by pharmaceutical manufacturers to the PharMerica Long-Term Care business, declines in the amounts of rebates that the PharMerica Long-Term Care business can retain, and/or the inability of the business to offset the rebate reductions that have already occurred or any rebate reductions that may occur in the future; any disruption to or other adverse effects upon the PharMerica Long-Term Care business caused by the announcement of the Company's agreement to combine the PharMerica Long-Term Care business with the institutional pharmacy business of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. into a new public company that will be owned 50% by the Company's shareholders (the "PharMerica LTC Transaction"); the inability of the Company to successfully complete the PharMerica LTC Transaction; fluctuations in market interest rates; operational or control issues arising from the Company's outsourcing of information technology activities; the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment's ability to continue to successfully transition its business model to fee-for-service; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; fluctuations in the U.S. dollarCanadian dollar exchange rate and other foreign exchange rates; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of the Company generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



