FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20070917163020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Kurt J. Hilzinger has resigned his positions as President and Chief Operating Officer of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") and as a Director of the Registrant, effective as of September 14, 2007. The Registrant announced Mr. Hilzinger's resignation and certain other organizational changes in a press release issued on September 17, 2007. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. In addition to the other changes noted in the press release, the Registrant announced that the position of Chief Operating Officer will not be filled at this time.
The Registrant's Chief Executive Officer, R. David Yost, will assume the position of President, which he previously held until October 2002. Mr. Yost, age 60, has been Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Registrant since August 2001. He was Chief Executive Officer of AmeriSource Health Corporation from May 1997 until August 2001 and Chairman of the Board of AmeriSource Health Corporation from December 2000 until August 2001. Mr. Yost has been employed by the Registrant or one of its predecessors for 33 years.
 
In the press release, issued on September 17, 2007, the Registrant confirmed its fiscal year 2007 expectations for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in a range of $2.50 to $2.58 (including a net benefit of $0.05 from special items). The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
99.1    News Release, dated September 17, 2007, regarding organizational changes at the Registrant and confirming fiscal year 2007 earnings guidance.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today announced a more streamlined organizational structure designed to drive increased efficiency and effectiveness and better position the Company to continue to achieve its long-term financial goals.
VALLEY FORGE, Pa. September 17, 2007
Kurt J. Hilzinger has resigned his position as AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Operating Officer and as a Director of the Company to join a private equity firm. "Kurt has made a huge contribution to AmerisourceBergen and its legacy companies in the 16 years we have worked together, and the Company would not be in its current strong position without his leadership, hard work and insights," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen Chief Executive Officer. "I will miss Kurt on both a professional and personal level, and wish him all the best at his new firm."
"With the recent spin off of our institutional pharmacy business, which represented nearly 25 percent of our associates, and the need to evolve our information technology platform, we had been reviewing our future organizational structure for some time," commented Yost. "Subsequently, with the resignation of Kurt, we have finalized an organization which will create the future infrastructure and cost structure that ensures we will continue to increase our efficiency and effectiveness."
The organizational changes will be as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
"We are very excited about the future of our industry and the role of AmerisourceBergen in that industry," said Yost. "Our diluted earnings per share from continue operations expectations for fiscal year 2007 remain unchanged in a range of $2.50 to $2.58, including a net benefit of $0.05 from special items. This range reflects the spin off of our institutional pharmacy business, which becomes a discontinued operation for the full year.
Commenting on fiscal year 2008, Yost said, "We are still completing our planning for the coming fiscal year, and as is our practice, we will provide guidance for FY 2008 when we release our fiscal year 2007 results on November 1, 2007. I am very optimistic about fiscal year 2008, and expect our performance to be in line with our long-term financial goals."
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen (NYSE:ABC) is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $64 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 11,500 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #29 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
F-L S
ORWARD
OOKING
TATEMENTS
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; customer defaults or insolvencies; changes in customer mix; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other disputes with customers (including departments and agencies of the U.S. Government) or suppliers; regulatory changes (including increased government regulation of the pharmaceutical supply channel); government enforcement initiatives (including (i) the imposition of increased obligations upon pharmaceutical distributors to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances (ii) the commencement of further administrative actions by the U. S. Drug Enforcement Administration seeking to suspend or revoke the license of any of the Company's distribution facilities to distribute controlled substances, or (iii) the commencement of any enforcement actions by any U.S. Attorney alleging violation of laws and regulations regarding diversion of controlled substances and suspicious order monitoring); changes in U.S. government policies (including reimbursement changes arising from federal legislation, including the Medicare Modernization Act and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005); changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or reimbursement practices for the pharmaceuticals we distribute; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; the inability of the Company to successfully complete any transaction that the Company may wish to pursue from time to time; fluctuations in market interest rates; operational or control issues arising from the Company's outsourcing of information technology activities; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; fluctuations in the U.S. dollarCanadian dollar exchange rate and other foreign exchange rates; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of the Company generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


