FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20071101095120.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On November 1, 2007, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter and year ended September 30, 2007 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the news release issued on November 1, 2007, the Registrant also announced that it expected fiscal year 2008 diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.77 to $2.95. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
99.1 News Release, dated November 1, 2007, regarding Registrant's earnings for the fiscal quarter and year ended September 30, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal fourth quarter ended September 30, 2007, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.63, which was negatively impacted by a $0.10 write-down to market value of tetanus-diphtheria vaccine inventory and positively impacted by a net $0.03 benefit from special items.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, November 1, 2007
The PharMerica Long-Term Care business, which the Company spun-off on July 31, 2007, is included in the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2007 results from continuing operations, representing $0.01 and $0.08 of diluted earnings per share, respectively.
Fiscal Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2007 Highlights
 
 
 
News Release
 
 
 
 
"We delivered outstanding performance for the 2007 fiscal year, exceeding the diluted earnings per share expectations we originally announced for the fiscal year last November, despite the impact from the write-down of tetanus-diphtheria vaccine inventory within the specialty business in the fourth fiscal quarter," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "In the fourth quarter and the fiscal year, performance of our traditional drug distribution business was outstanding, driven by our ability to leverage our contracts with branded manufacturers, drive generic sales, and lower our expense ratios through our newly completed distribution network. Although our specialty distribution business faced some tough head winds in the anemia drug market and with the tetanus-diphtheria vaccine write-down late in the fiscal year, its market leading position and robust service offerings in the distribution of specialty drugs to physicians delivered a 23 percent increase in operating revenue and contributed to the overall success of fiscal 2007. In addition, we generated more than double the cash we originally forecasted for fiscal 2007 through our strong working capital management, and we used our cash to make acquisitions and repurchase $1.4 billion of our stock in the fiscal year. Our balance sheet continues to be strong and our financial flexibility remains significant."
"We expect those same attributes to allow us to continue to grow in line with our long-term goals in fiscal 2008," he continued. "Our annual long-term goal continues to be to grow diluted earnings per share in the 15 percent range by growing operating revenue in line with pharmaceutical market growth, expanding operating margins in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment by single digit basis points, and generating free cash flows approximating net income."
Consolidated Results
 
 
News Release
 
In the prior year's fiscal fourth quarter, consolidated operating income was negatively impacted by $7.8 million of "facility consolidations, employee severance and other," offset by an $8.9 million gain from the settlement of pharmaceutical manufacturer antitrust litigation cases.
Consolidated operating income for fiscal year 2007 was $820.3 million, up 10 percent over the previous fiscal year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
News Release
 
AmerisourceBergen operates in two reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution (which includes the operations of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, Specialty Group, and Packaging Group) and Other (which includes PharMerica Long-Term Care until July 31, 2007 and PMSI). Intersegment sales of $83.1 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 from AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation to PharMerica Long-Term Care and PMSI, which are included in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment operating revenue, are eliminated for consolidated reporting purposes.
Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment Results
 
 
 
 
News Release
 
Other Segment Results
 
 
Fiscal Year 2008 Expectations
"Looking ahead, we expect fiscal 2008 performance to meet or exceed our long-term goals," said Yost. "Although this fiscal year's December quarter is expected to be a difficult comparison due to the strength of the same quarter in the prior year, we expect fiscal year 2008 diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.77 to $2.95. This diluted earnings per share range represents an increase of about 13 percent to 20 percent over the $2.46 per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2007, which excludes the $0.09 benefit from special items and the $0.08 contribution from PharMerica Long-Term Care in fiscal year 2007.
"Including the acquisition in October of Bellco Health, key assumptions supporting our diluted earnings per share expectations in fiscal 2008 are: operating revenue growth of between 5 percent and 7 percent; operating margin expansion by single digit basis points in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment; and free cash flow in the range of $450 million to $525 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $125 million range. Also, subject to the approval of our Board of Directors and market conditions, we expect to spend $400 million to $500 million to repurchase our common shares in fiscal 2008."
 
News Release
 
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on November 1, 2007. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To access the live conference call via telephone:
  Dial in: 612-332-0342, no access code required.
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 2:30 p.m. November 1, 2007 until 11:59 p.m. November 8, 2007. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
 
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $66 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs more than 11,500 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #29 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described
 
News Release
 
in any forward-looking statements: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; customer defaults or insolvencies; changes in customer mix; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other disputes with customers (including departments and agencies of the U.S. Government) or suppliers; regulatory changes (including increased government regulation of the pharmaceutical supply channel); government enforcement initiatives (including (i) the imposition of increased obligations upon pharmaceutical distributors to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances (ii) the commencement of further administrative actions by the U. S. Drug Enforcement Administration seeking to suspend or revoke the license of any of the Company's distribution facilities to distribute controlled substances, or (iii) the commencement of any enforcement actions by any U.S. Attorney alleging violation of laws and regulations regarding diversion of controlled substances and suspicious order monitoring); changes in U.S. government policies (including reimbursement changes arising from federal legislation, including the Medicare Modernization Act and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005); changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or reimbursement practices for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) used to treat anemia patients; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; the inability of the Company to successfully complete any transaction that the Company may wish to pursue from time to time; fluctuations in market interest rates; operational or control issues arising from the Company's outsourcing of information technology activities; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; fluctuations in the U.S. dollarCanadian dollar exchange rate and other foreign exchange rates; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of the Company generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the periods presented. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the periods presented plus the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock.
 


