FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20081030084139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 30, 2008, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter and year ended September 30, 2008 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the news release, issued October 30, 2008, the Registrant announced that it had completed the sale of its PMSI workers' compensation business to H.I.G. Capital, LLC on October 29, 2008. The PMSI workers' compensation business was classified as a discontinued operation by the Registrant.
The Registrant also announced that it expects diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2009 to be in a range of $3.08 to $3.25, which represents an increase of 7 percent to 12 percent over the $2.89 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in fiscal year 2008. The Registrant also announced the key assumptions supporting the diluted earnings per share range, including total revenue growth of between 1 percent and 3 percent, reflecting expected market conditions, the Registrant's customer mix, and the 3 percent negative impact from the loss on July 1, 2008 of a large retail drug chain; operating margin expansion in the low to mid single digit basis point range; and free cash flow in the range of $460 million to $535 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. The Registrant also announced that, subject to the approval of its Board of Directors and market conditions, it expects to spend approximately $350 million to repurchase its common shares in fiscal year 2009. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
99.1 News Release, dated October 30, 2008, regarding Registrant's earnings for the fiscal quarter and year ended September 30, 2008 and other matters.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2008 fourth quarter ended September 30, 2008, total revenue increased 5 percent to $17.2 billion, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.73, an 18 percent increase over the previous fiscal year's fourth quarter.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, October 30, 2008 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2008 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Our results from continuing operations in the September quarter and fiscal year 2008 reflect exceptional performance and resiliency across our businesses," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "In a pharmaceutical market where growth was soft by historical standards, our strong performance was based on: above-market revenue growth, an excellent contribution from our PRxO Generics program, a diverse customer mix, and outstanding expense management. Our working capital management remains exceptional with lower average receivable-days-outstanding and average inventory-days-on-hand. Our balance sheet remains very strong. And looking ahead, our demonstrated discipline in fiscal 2008 will serve us well in fiscal year 2009 as we expect to achieve diluted earnings per share in the range of $3.08 to $3.25, a 7 percent to 12 percent increase over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the previous fiscal year."
Consolidated Results
 
 
For fiscal year 2008, consolidated operating income was up 5 percent from the previous fiscal year to $827.9 million, and included $12.4 million in special charges reflected in facility consolidations, employee severance and other, which were offset in part by a $3.5 million gain from antitrust litigation settlements. In fiscal year 2007, special items were a net benefit of $33.8 million primarily due to the positive impact of antitrust litigation settlements.
 
 
 
 
AmerisourceBergen consists of the following two reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution (which includes the operations of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, Specialty Group, Packaging Group and Bellco Health) and Other (which includes PharMerica LTC through July 31, 2007, and excludes PMSI, which has been reclassified to discontinued operations).
Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Segment Results
 
 
Fiscal Year 2009 Expectations
"We expect diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2009 to be in a range of $3.08 to $3.25, which represents an increase of 7 percent to 12 percent over the $2.89 from continuing operations in fiscal 2008," said Yost. "Key assumptions supporting this diluted earnings per share range are: total revenue growth of between 1 percent and 3 percent, reflecting expected market conditions, our customer mix, and the 3 percent negative impact from the loss on July 1, 2008 of a large retail drug chain; operating margin expansion in the low to mid single digit basis point range; and free cash flow in the range of $460 million to $535 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. Also, subject to the approval of our Board of Directors and market conditions, we expect to spend approximately $350 million to repurchase our common shares in fiscal 2009."
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on October 30, 2008. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer for AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation.
To access the live conference call via telephone:
Dial in: (612) 332-0923, no access code required.
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
 
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 1:00 p.m. October 30, 2008 until 11:59 p.m. November 6, 2008. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
 
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $70 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 11,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #28 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements about AmerisourceBergen's future business and financial performance, estimates and prospects. These statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer or supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) used to treat anemia patients; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and financing sources; continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and current reports 8-K (which we may revise or supplement in future reports filed to the SEC) provide additional information about these risks, uncertainties and other matters. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


