FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20080423093223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 23, 2008, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In the news release issued on April 23, 2008, the Registrant announced that it was discontinuing the sale process for PMSI, its workers' compensation business. The Registrant also announced that it was narrowing its expectations for fiscal year 2008 diluted earnings per share to a range of $2.77 to $2.87 from the previous range of $2.77 to $2.95, due primarily to the expected weaker performance of PMSI, as well as the impact from lower sales of anemia drugs in the Specialty Group and the slowing growth of the overall pharmaceutical market. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2008 second quarter ended March 31, 2008, diluted earnings per share were a record $0.82, up 21 percent, and total revenue increased 8 percent to $17.8 billion, also a record.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, April 23, 2008
AmerisourceBergen also announced that it has terminated the sale process for PMSI, its market-leading workers' compensation business, and is turning its attention to profit improvement initiatives to increase PMSI's performance. In discontinuing the sale process, the Company said that the final bids did not reflect the fair value of the business.
Fiscal Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
Fiscal First Six Months Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
"Our record-setting March quarter results were driven by outstanding performance in our core distribution businesses due to excellent revenue growth, solid expense management, strong price appreciation and increased generic contributions," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "This record performance was achieved despite the weaker performance in our Other Segment. Our working capital management remains excellent, and our balance sheet continues to be strong."
Commenting on the terminated sale process for PMSI, Yost said, "Because the final bids did not reflect the turnaround value of the business, which we expect to capture, we will focus on significantly improving the business and delivering that value to shareholders. We expect PMSI to improve in the second half of this fiscal year and deliver significant improvement in fiscal year 2009. In the future, we believe this business can be a strong, long-term contributor to shareholder value as part of AmerisourceBergen."
Consolidated Results
 
 
 
 
consolidated operating income. In the previous fiscal year's second quarter, special items had a net positive impact of $1.6 million.
 
 
 
 
 
AmerisourceBergen consists of the following two reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution (which includes the operations of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, Specialty Group, Packaging Group and Bellco Health) and Other (which includes PharMerica Long-Term Care, throughJuly 31, 2007, and PMSI). Intersegment sales of $14.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2008
 
from AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation to PMSI, which are included in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment total revenue, are eliminated for consolidated reporting purposes.
Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment Results
 
 
 
 
Other Segment Results
 
 
related to ongoing information technology infrastructure and customer-facing projects. In the second quarter of 2007, the segment also included PharMerica Long-Term Care, which contributed revenue of $316.8 million and operating income of $6.8 million.
 
Fiscal Year 2008 Expectations
"Though remaining within our original range, we are narrowing our expectations for fiscal year 2008 diluted earnings per share to a range of $2.77 to $2.87 from the previous range of $2.77 to $2.95, due primarily to the expected weaker performance of PMSI, as well as the impact from lower sales of anemia drugs in the Specialty Group and the slowing growth of the overall pharmaceutical market," said Yost. "This diluted earnings per share range represents an increase of about 13 percent to 17 percent over the $2.46 per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2007, which continues to exclude the $0.09 benefit from special items and the $0.08 contribution from PharMerica Long-Term Care in fiscal year 2007.
"We are increasing our expectations for the repurchase of our common shares in fiscal year 2008. In the first half of fiscal 2008, we repurchased $395 million of our shares and now expect to use a substantial amount of the $302 million remaining in our current share repurchase authorization during the remainder of this fiscal year. As a result, we anticipate exceeding our previous expectation of repurchasing $400 million to $500 million of our shares in fiscal year 2008. We continue to expect free cash flow for fiscal year 2008 in the range of $450 million to $525 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $125 million range.
"Despite the change from operating revenue to total revenue guidance, we are retaining our key revenue and margin assumptions supporting our diluted earnings per share expectations in fiscal year 2008: Total revenue growth assumptions remain in the range of 7 percent to 9 percent, primarily due to the expected growth of our largest institutional customers; and we continue to expect operating margin expansion in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment will be in the low single-digit basis points range."
 
Fiscal Year 2009 Preview
Looking ahead to fiscal year 2009, Yost commented, "We have yet to start our detailed planning process for fiscal year 2009. However, in light of recently reduced pharmaceutical market growth predictions, I want to provide some perspective on our next fiscal year. If pharmaceutical market growth is in the 2 percent to 3 percent range, we see a clear path to low double-digit diluted earnings per share growth in fiscal year 2009 through operating margin expansion and strong cash generation. As in the past, we expect to announce our diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal year 2009 when we release our fiscal 2008 results, currently scheduled for October 30, 2008."
 
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on April 23, 2008. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 
To access the live conference call via telephone:
    Dial in: (612) 332-0430, no access code required.
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com.
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 1:00 p.m. April 23, 2008 until 11:59 p.m. April 30, 2008. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
 
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com.
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare
 
providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $66 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 11,200 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #28 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer or supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other disputes with customers (including departments and agencies of the U.S. Government) or suppliers; regulatory changes (including increased government regulation of the pharmaceutical supply channel); government enforcement initiatives (including (i) the imposition of increased obligations upon pharmaceutical distributors to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances (ii) the commencement of further administrative actions by the U. S. Drug Enforcement Administration seeking to suspend or revoke the license of any of the Company's distribution facilities to distribute controlled substances, (iii) the commencement of any enforcement actions by any U.S. Attorney alleging violation of laws and regulations regarding diversion of controlled substances and suspicious order monitoring), or (iv) the commencement of any administrative actions by the board of pharmacy of any state seeking to suspend, revoke or otherwise restrict the ability of any of the Company's distribution facilities or businesses to distribute or dispense pharmaceuticals in such state; changes in U.S. government policies (including reimbursement changes arising from federal legislation, including the Medicare Modernization Act and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005); changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines, reimbursement practices and/or labeling for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) used to treat anemia patients; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; fluctuations in market interest rates; operational or control issues arising from the Company's outsourcing of information technology activities; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; fluctuations in the U.S. dollar - Canadian dollar exchange rate and other foreign exchange rates; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; any disruption to or other adverse effects upon the PMSI workers' compensation business caused by the Company's decision to terminate its previously-announced sale process for PMSI; further declines in PMSI's performance due to further customer losses, reimbursement reductions and/or competitive pressures; the inability of the Company to successfully undertake profit improvement initiatives and other measures to improve PMSI's performance; the inability of the Company to successfully complete any other transaction that the Company may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of the Company generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the periods presented. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the periods presented plus the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock.
 


