FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20080724094233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 24, 2008, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the news release issued on July 24, 2008, the Registrant also announced that it signed an agreement to sell its PMSI workers' compensation business to H.I.G. Capital, LLC for approximately $40 million, plus a contingency payment of up to an additional $10 million. The divestiture will be in the form of a sale of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of PMSI, Inc., PMSI MSA Services, Inc. and Tmesys, Inc. The Company expects to complete the transaction by the end of September 2008.
Based upon the estimated fair value of the consideration that the Registrant expects to receive relating to the sale of its PMSI workers' compensation business, the Registrant recorded a non-cash charge of $222 million as of June 30, 2008 to reduce the carrying value of its PMSI workers' compensation business. This conclusion was reached in connection with the preparation of financial statements to be included in the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.
In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, specifically FAS 142 and FAS 144, this non-cash charge was recorded in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2008 as an impairment to PMSI's goodwill in the amount of $199 million and $23 million as the estimated loss on the sale of PMSI.
The Registrant has reclassified the PMSI workers' compensation business as a discontinued operation as of June 30, 2008. Therefore, its results of operations, which include the $222 million non-cash charge, have been reported as discontinued for all current and prior fiscal periods.
 
In the news release issued on January 24, 2008, the Registrant also announced that it had raised its expectations for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2008 to a range of $2.81 to $2.89 from the previous range of $2.77 to $2.87. This annual range implies a fourth quarter fiscal 2008 range of $0.65 to $0.73 for diluted earnings per share. The Registrant affirmed that its revenue assumptions supporting its earnings expectations for fiscal year 2008 remain unchanged, and expects to be at the low end of the range. The Registrant announced an increase to the low to mid single-digit basis point range in its assumption for operating margin expansion in the pharmaceutical distribution segment. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2008 third quarter ended June 30, 2008, total revenue increased 10 percent to a record $18.0 billion, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.70 including $0.03 in special charges, up 4 percent, and the Pharmaceutical Distribution operating margin increased 10 basis points.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, July 24, 2008 
AmerisourceBergen also announced that the Company has signed an agreement to sell its PMSI workers' compensation business to H.I.G. Capital, LLC for approximately $40 million, plus a contingency payment of up to an additional $10 million and subject to adjustments at closing. As a result, AmerisourceBergen is taking a non-cash charge of $222 million in the June quarter of fiscal 2008. The Company expects to complete the transaction by the end of September this year. In addition, results for the current and prior fiscal year for PMSI, including the charge, have been reclassified as a discontinued operation.
Fiscal Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal First Nine Months Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
"Our outstanding June quarter results in continuing operations were driven by excellent performance across the core distribution businesses, including our specialty business," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Above-market revenue growth, solid manufacturer price appreciation, and outstanding expense management all played a key role in delivering the results. This superior performance was achieved in a pharmaceutical market that was soft by historical standards. Our working capital management remains exceptional; we improved our liquidity in the quarter; and we continue to have a strong balance sheet."
Commenting on the sale of PMSI, Yost said, "We were very disappointed with PMSI's performance in this quarter, and after re-evaluating our alternatives, we decided to sell the PMSI workers' compensation business in order to focus our full attention on our pharmaceutical distribution and related businesses and allow H.I.G. to focus on the opportunities at PMSI.
"Based on our strong performance, we have raised our expectations for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2008 to a range of $2.81 to $2.89 from the previous range of $2.77 to $2.87. This guidance includes $0.03 of special charges and no contribution from PMSI."
Consolidated Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AmerisourceBergen consists of the following two reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution (which includes the operations of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, Specialty Group, Packaging Group and Bellco Health) and Other (which includes PharMerica Long-Term Care through July 31, 2007, and excludes PMSI, which has been reclassified to discontinued operations in all periods presented).
Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Segment Results
 
Fiscal Year 2008 Expectations
"We have raised our expectations for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2008 to a range of $2.81 to $2.89 from the previous range of $2.77 to $2.87," said Yost. "This new range implies a fourth quarter fiscal 2008 range of $0.65 to $0.73. The midpoint of the new expectations for fiscal year 2008, excluding the $0.03 of special charges in fiscal 2008, represents a 22 percent increase over the $2.36 per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2007, which excludes the $0.09 benefit from special items and the $0.08 contribution from PharMerica LTC in fiscal year 2007. The fiscal year 2008 range reflects no contributions from PMSI because it is classified as a discontinued operation and includes $0.03 of special charges.
"Our revenue assumptions supporting our diluted earnings per share from continuing operations expectations in fiscal year 2008 remain unchanged in a range of 7 percent to 9 percent, and we expect to be at the low end of the range. Our assumption for operating margin expansion in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment improves to the low to mid single-digit basis point range from the low single-digit basis point range.
"In the first nine months of fiscal 2008, we repurchased $554 million of our shares and expect to use the majority of the $144 million remaining in our current share repurchase authorization during the remainder of this fiscal year, substantially exceeding our original expectation of repurchasing $400 million to $500 million of our shares in fiscal year 2008. We continue to expect free cash flow for fiscal year 2008 in the range of $450 million to $525 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $125 million range."
 
 
Fiscal Year 2009 Preview
Looking ahead to fiscal year 2009, Yost commented, "Although we are in the middle of our detailed planning process for fiscal year 2009, I remain confident that even if pharmaceutical market growth is in the 2 percent to 3 percent range next year, we see a clear path to delivering low double-digit diluted earnings per share from continuing operations growth in fiscal year 2009 through continued expense management, operating margin expansion and strong cash generation. As in the past, we expect to announce our diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal year 2009 when we release our fiscal year 2008 results, currently scheduled for October 30, 2008."
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on July 24, 2008. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer for AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation.
To access the live conference call via telephone:
Dial in: (612) 332-0806, no access code required.
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 1:00 p.m. July 24, 2008 until 11:59 p.m. July 31, 2008. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
 
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
 
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $70 billion in annualized revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 11,200 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #28 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer or supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other disputes with customers (including departments and agencies of the U.S. Government) or suppliers; regulatory changes (including increased government regulation of the pharmaceutical supply channel); government enforcement initiatives (including (i) the imposition of increased obligations upon pharmaceutical distributors to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances (ii) the commencement of further administrative actions by the U. S. Drug Enforcement Administration seeking to suspend or revoke the license of any of the Company's distribution facilities to distribute controlled substances, (iii) the commencement of any enforcement actions by any U.S. Attorney alleging violation of laws and regulations regarding diversion of controlled substances and suspicious order monitoring), or (iv) the commencement of any administrative actions by the board of pharmacy of any state seeking to suspend, revoke or otherwise restrict the ability of any of the Company's distribution facilities or businesses to distribute or dispense pharmaceuticals in such state; changes in U.S. government policies (including reimbursement changes arising from federal legislation, including the Medicare Modernization Act and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005); changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines, reimbursement practices and/or labeling for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) used to treat anemia patients; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; fluctuations in market interest rates; operational or control issues arising from the Company's outsourcing of information technology activities; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; fluctuations in the U.S. dollarCanadian dollar exchange rate and other foreign exchange rates; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; the inability of the Company to complete the divestiture of its PMSI workers' compensation business; an increase in the impairment charge related to PMSI if the divestiture is not completed; any disruption to or other adverse effects on the Company related to its exit from the PMSI workers' compensation business and classification of that business as a discontinued operation; the incurrence of additional costs, expenses or liabilities in the future related to discontinued operations; the inability of the Company to successfully complete any other transaction that the Company may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting the business of the Company generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


