FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20090730082714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 30, 2009, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In the news release, issued on July 30, 2009, the Registrant also announced that it expects diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009 to be at the higher end of the Registrant's previously stated range of $1.59 to $1.65. The Registrant announced that the fiscal year 2009 range implies a fourth quarter fiscal 2009 range of $0.34 to $0.40 and the Registrant also expects to be at the higher end of the fourth quarter fiscal 2009 range. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.  
(d)    Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2009 third quarter ended June 30, 2009, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.42, a 20 percent increase, and revenue increased 2.2 percent to a record $18.4 billion. Earnings per share reflect the Company's June 2009 two-for-one stock split.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, July 30, 2009
Fiscal Third Quarter Highlights
Fiscal First Nine Months Highlights
"Our outstanding results in the June quarter were driven by strong generic drug sales, up more than 20 percent due to new customers and continued market penetration; good performance under our fee-for-service contracts with manufacturers; and very disciplined working capital management," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Record revenue in the quarter was up 2.2 percent, and would have increased 6 percent when adjusted for the negative impact of the July 1, 2008 loss of the direct-to-warehouse business of a large retail drug chain. Our average receivable days were again down in the quarter; our balance sheet remains strong; and we have good financial flexibility."
 
"During the quarter, we also acquired Innomar Strategies Inc., which when combined with our AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, Canada, gives us the largest and broadest commercialization service offerings to pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers in Canada," he continued. "Given our strong position in generics and specialty pharmaceuticals and our good momentum coming out of this quarter, we are well positioned for the future."
Summary of Quarterly Results
 
Summary of First Nine Months
 
Fiscal Year 2009 Expectations At Higher End of Range
"Looking ahead, the Company expects diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009 to be at the higher end of our previously stated range of $1.59 to $1.65, an increase of 10 percent to 15 percent over the split-adjusted $1.44 in fiscal year 2008," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Executive Officer. "The fiscal year range implies a fourth quarter fiscal year 2009 range of $0.34 to $0.40, and again we would expect to be at the higher end of this range."
Yost said, "Remaining unchanged are the following assumptions supporting the fiscal 2009 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations range: revenue growth of between 1 percent and 3 percent; operating margin expansion in the low to mid single digit basis point range; and free cash flow in the range of $460 million to $535 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. Also unchanged is the expected repurchase of approximately $350 million of AmerisourceBergen common shares in fiscal 2009."
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on July 30, 2009. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To access the live conference call via telephone:
Dial in: (651) 291-0900, no access code required.
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 1:00 p.m. July 30, 2009 until 11:59 p.m. August 6, 2009. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
Dial in:  (800) 475-6701 from within the U.S., access code: 106662
 (320) 365-3844 from outside the U.S., access code: 106662
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $70 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #26 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements about AmerisourceBergen's future business and financial performance, estimates and prospects. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes within AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation's operations and our corporate functions without operating problems and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation or regulatory action to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; continued volatility, and further deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and current reports 8-K (which we may revise or supplement in future reports filed to the SEC) provide additional information about these risks, uncertainties and other matters. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 


