FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20091120180422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 19, 2009, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Company") completed the sale of $400 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.875% Senior Notes due November 15, 2019 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued under and will be governed by an Indenture, dated as of November 19, 2009 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 19, 2009, by and among the Company, certain of the Company's direct and indirect U.S. subsidiaries named therein (the "Guarantors") and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture").
The Notes bear interest at a rate of 4.875% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning on May 15, 2010. The Notes will mature on November 15, 2019, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased. The Company may redeem some or all of the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, at the "make-whole" redemption price set forth in the Supplemental Indenture (which redemption price may not be less than the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption). Subject to certain limitations, in the event of a change of control of the Company, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase.
The Notes are unsecured unsubordinated obligations of the Company and will be guaranteed ("Guarantees") on an unsecured basis by each of the Company's current and future U.S. subsidiaries (other than certain excluded subsidiaries) that have outstanding, or incur or guarantee certain specified indebtedness. These Guarantees will be joint and several obligations of the guarantors. As of the issue date of the Notes, Guarantees were provided by each of the Guarantors, which are the same subsidiaries that guarantee the Company's 5-5/8% Senior Notes due 2012, 5-7/8% Senior Notes due 2015 and multi-currency revolving credit facility. The Guarantees may be released under certain circumstances as specified in the Supplemental Indenture. The Notes are not guaranteed by any of the Company's foreign subsidiaries.
Subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, the Indenture, among other things, limits the Company's ability and the ability of the Company's restricted subsidiaries to create liens and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions and limits the Company's ability to merge or consolidate with or into other entities or to sell, lease or convey all or substantially all of the Company's and its restricted subsidiaries' assets, taken as a whole.
The Indenture provides for certain events of default which include (subject in certain cases to grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of covenants or warranties in the Indenture; defaults under or failure to pay certain other indebtedness; failure to pay certain final judgments; the failure of any Guarantees to be enforceable; and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, administration or similar proceedings. Generally, if an event of default occurs, the Trustee and the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately.
The foregoing is a brief description of certain terms of the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture (including the form of Note and Guarantee attached thereto) and, by its nature, is incomplete. It is qualified in its entirety by the text of the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture (including the form of Note and Guarantee attached thereto) filed as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 to this Current Report, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference. All readers are encouraged to read the entire text of such documents. The Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture are also filed with reference to, and are hereby made exhibits to, the Company's shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration Statement No. 333-162227), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 30, 2009, as amended on November 4, 2009, pursuant to which the offer and sale of the Notes and the Guarantees have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above with respect to the Indenture and the Notes is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03 insofar as it relates to the creation of a direct financial obligation.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 19, 2009, the Company issued a news release announcing that it had completed the sale of $400 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes in an underwritten registered public offering. The news release is being furnished with this Current Report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION
Date: November 20, 2009
By:
/s/ John G. Chou                   
Name: John G. Chou Title: Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
The following is a reconciliation and tie of certain sections of this Indenture relating to Sections 3.10 through 3.18, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939:
Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
, between AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the "") having its principal office at 1300 Morris Drive, Chesterbrook, PA 19087-5594, and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (hereinafter called the ""), is made and entered into as of this 19th day of November, 2009.
THIS INDENTURE
Company
Trustee
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of its unsecured debentures, notes, bonds, and other evidences of indebtedness, to be issued in one or more fully registered series.
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
To set forth or to provide for the establishment of the terms and conditions upon which the Securities (as hereinafter defined) are and are to be authenticated, issued, and delivered, and in consideration of the premises thereof, and the purchase of Securities by the Holders (as hereinafter defined) thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as follows, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders from time to time of the Securities or of any series thereof, as the case may be:
. For all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
Section 1.01.
Definitions
(a) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;
(b) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act (as hereinafter defined), either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(c) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States of America at the date of such computation; and
(d) all references in this instrument to designated "", "" and other subdivisions are to the designated Articles, Sections and other subdivisions of this instrument as originally executed. The words "herein", "hereof", and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section, or other subdivision.
Articles
Sections
 
"", when used with respect to any Securityholder (as hereinafter defined), has the meaning specified in Section 1.04.
Act
"" of any specified Person (as hereinafter defined) means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" means any Person authorized by the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series under Section 6.14.
Authenticating Agent
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.03.
Authentication Order
"" means (i) the board of directors of the Company, (ii) any duly authorized committee of that board, or (iii) any officer, director, or authorized representative of the Company, in each case duly authorized by such Board to act hereunder.
Board of Directors
"" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee thereof and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
"" means the Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors.
Chairman
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act (as hereinafter defined), or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties on such date.
Commission
"" means AmerisourceBergen Corporation, unless and until a successor corporation shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "" shall mean such successor corporation.
Company
Company
"", "", and "" mean, respectively, a written request, order, or consent signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, or Treasurer, or by any other officer or officers of the Company pursuant to an applicable Board Resolution, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
Company Consent
 
"" means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 50 South 16th Street, Suite 2000, Mail Station EX-PA-WBSP, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102, Attention: George J. Rayzis, Facsimile No: 215-761-9412, or such other address or facsimile number as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee.
Corporate Trust Office
"" means a corporation, association, company, joint-stock company, limited liability company or business trust.
Corporation
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.03.
Covenant Defeasance
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.07.
Defaulted Interest
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.02.
Defeasance
"" means with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person designated as Depositary by the Company pursuant to Section 3.01, unless and until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "" as used with respect to the Securities of any such series shall mean the "" with respect to the Securities of that series.
Depositary
Depositary
Depositary
Depositary
"" means, in relation to Securities denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars, securities of the government that issued the currency in which such Securities are denominated or securities of government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of such government.
Equivalent Government Securities
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01.
Event of Default
"" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any statute successor thereto.
Exchange Act
"", "" and "" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register (as hereinafter defined).
Holder
Securityholder
Holder of Securities
"" or "" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of any particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 3.01.
Indenture
this Indenture
"", when used with respect to any series of Securities, means any date on which an installment of interest on those Securities is scheduled to be paid.
Interest Payment Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 1.14.
Judgment Currency
"", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal amount outstanding under such Security or an installment of principal amount outstanding under such Security becomes due and payable, as therein or herein provided, whether on the Scheduled Maturity Date (as hereinafter defined), by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, or otherwise.
Maturity
 
"" means (except, with respect to any particular series of Securities, as may be otherwise provided in the form of such Securities) any day other than a Saturday or Sunday that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation, or executive order to be closed.
New York Business Day
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(d).
Notice of Default
"" means a certificate signed by any two of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, the Treasurer, and any Assistant Treasurer of the Company, or by any other officer or officers of the Company pursuant to an applicable Board Resolution, and delivered to the Trustee.
Officers' Certificate
"" means a written opinion of counsel to the Company, which counsel may be an employee of the Company or other counsel who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
"" has the meaning specified in Section 12.03.
Option to Elect Repayment
"" means any Security which is initially sold at a discount from the principal amount thereof and the terms of which provide that upon redemption or acceleration of the Maturity thereof, an amount less than the principal amount thereof would become due and payable.
Original Issue Discount Security
"", when used with respect to any particular Securities or to the Securities of any particular series means, as of the date of determination, all such Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
(i) such Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation;
(ii) such Securities, or portions thereof, for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any Paying Agent (as hereinafter defined) other than the Company, or, if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent, has been set aside and segregated in trust by the Company; provided, in any case, that if such Securities are to be redeemed prior to their Scheduled Maturity Date, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and
(iii) such Securities in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, or which shall have been paid, in each case, pursuant to the terms of Section 3.06 (except with respect to any such Security as to which proof satisfactory to the Trustee is presented that such Security is held by a Person in whose hands such Security is a legal, valid, and binding obligation of the Company).
 
In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of such Securities Outstanding have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, the principal amount of any Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof. In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of such Securities Outstanding have given a direction concerning the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or concerning the exercise of any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee under this Indenture, or concerning a consent on behalf of the Holders of any series of Securities to the waiver of any past default and its consequences, Securities owned by the Company, any other obligor upon the Securities, or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding. In determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer assigned to the corporate trust department of the Trustee knows to be owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right to act as owner with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor.
"" means, with respect to any Securities, any Person appointed by the Company to distribute amounts payable by the Company on such Securities. If at any time there shall be more than one such Person, "Paying Agent" as used with respect to the Securities of any particular series shall mean the Paying Agent with respect to Securities of that series. As of the date of this Indenture, the Company has appointed U.S. Bank National Association, as Paying Agent with respect to all Securities issuable hereunder.
Paying Agent
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government, or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities issued hereunder, the place or places where the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Securities of that series are payable, as contemplated by Section 3.01 and Section 10.02(b).
Place of Payment
"" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.06 in lieu of a lost, destroyed, mutilated, or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed, mutilated, or stolen Security.
Predecessor Securities
"" means any date as of which the Holder of a Security will be determined for any purpose described herein, such determination to be made as of the close of business on such date by reference to the Security Register.
Record Date
 
"", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
"", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price specified in the Security at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
"", when used with respect to any Security to be repaid, means the date fixed for such repayment pursuant to such Security.
Repayment Date
"", when used with respect to any Security to be repaid, means the price at which it is to be repaid pursuant to such Security.
Repayment Price
"" has the meaning specified in Section 1.14.
Required Currency
"", when used with respect to the Trustee, shall mean any Vice President of the Trustee or an officer of the Trustee in the Corporate Trust Office, having direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture, and also, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
"", when used with respect to any Security, means the date specified in such Security as the date on which all outstanding principal and interest will be due and payable.
Scheduled Maturity Date
"" or "" means any note or notes, bond or bonds, debenture or debentures, or any other evidences of indebtedness, as the case may be, of any series authenticated and delivered from time to time under this Indenture.
Security
Securities
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.05.
Security Register
"" means the Person who maintains the Security Register, which Person shall be the Trustee unless and until a successor Security Registrar is appointed by the Company.
Security Registrar
"" means all obligations or indebtedness of, or guaranteed or assumed by, the Company, whether or not represented by bonds, debentures notes or similar instruments, for borrowed money, and any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such obligations or indebtedness, in any case whether outstanding on the date of this Indenture or the date Securities of any series are issued hereunder or thereafter created, incurred, guaranteed or assumed, unless in any case in the instrument creating or evidencing any such indebtedness or obligations or pursuant to which the same is outstanding it is specifically stated, at or prior to the time the Company becomes liable in respect thereof, that any such obligation or indebtedness or such amendment, renewal, extension, modification and refunding thereof is not Senior Indebtedness.
Senior Indebtedness
"" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.07.
Special Record Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Specified Currency
"" means any security issued under this Indenture which is designated as a Subordinated Security.
Subordinated Security
"" of any specified corporation means any entity at least a majority of whose outstanding Voting Stock shall at the time be owned, directly or indirectly, by the specified corporation or by one or more of its Subsidiaries, or both.
Subsidiary
"" or "" means the U.S. Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force as of the date hereof, , , that in the event the U.S. Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after the date hereof, "Trust Indenture Act" and "TIA" means, to the extent required by such amendment, the U.S. Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as so amended.
Trust Indenture Act
TIA
provided
however
"" means the party named as such above until a successor becomes such pursuant to this Indenture and thereafter means or includes each party who is then a trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such party, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series means the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series. If Trustees with respect to different series of Securities are trustees under this Indenture, nothing herein shall constitute the Trustees co-trustees of the same trust, and each Trustee shall be the trustee of a trust separate and apart from any trust administered by any other Trustee with respect to a different series of Securities.
Trustee
"" means (i) securities that are direct obligations of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America and (ii) securities that are obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America, and also includes depository receipts issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any of the securities described in the preceding clauses (i) and (ii), and any payment of interest or principal payable under any of the securities described in the preceding clauses (i) and (ii) that is held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt; that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt, or from any amount received by the custodian in respect of such securities, or from any specific payment of interest or principal payable under the securities evidenced by such depository receipt.
U.S. Government Obligations
provided
"", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
Vice President
"", as applied to the stock of any corporation, means stock of any class or classes (however designated), the outstanding shares of which have, by the terms thereof, ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the members of the board of directors (or other governing body) of such corporation, other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
Voting Stock
 
Every Officers' Certificate, Opinion of Counsel, and other certificate or opinion to be delivered to the Trustee under this Indenture with respect to any action to be taken by the Trustee (except for the Officers' Certificate required by Section 10.04) shall include the following:
Section 1.02.
Officers' Certificates and Opinions
.
(a) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read all covenants and conditions of this Indenture relating to such proposed action, including the definitions herein relating thereto;
(b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(c) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him or her to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to the other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Section 1.03.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, legal counsel, unless such officer knows that any such certificate, opinion, or representation is erroneous. Any opinion of counsel for the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company, unless such counsel knows that any such certificate, opinion, or representation is erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give, or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions, or other instruments under this Indenture, such instruments may, but need not, be consolidated and form a single instrument.
 
.
Section 1.04. Acts of Securityholders
(a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver, or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Securityholders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Securityholders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and (if expressly required by the applicable terms of this Indenture) to the Company. If any Securities are denominated in coin or currency other than that of the United States, then for the purposes of determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities have taken any action as herein described, the principal amount of such Securities shall be deemed to be that amount of United States dollars that could be obtained for such principal amount on the basis of the spot rate of exchange into United States dollars for the currency in which such Securities are denominated (as evidenced to the Trustee by a certificate provided by a financial institution, selected by the Company, that maintains an active trade in the currency in question, acting as conversion agent) as of the date the taking of such action by the Holders of such requisite principal amount is evidenced to the Trustee as provided in the immediately preceding sentence. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of the Securityholders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.01) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
Act
(b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness to such execution or by the certificate of any notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by an officer of a corporation or a member of a partnership, on behalf of such corporation or partnership, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
(c) The ownership of Securities shall for all purposes be determined by reference to the Security Register, as such register shall exist as of the applicable date.
(d) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, the Company may, at its option, by Board Resolution, fix in advance a Record Date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such Record Date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action may be given before or after such Record Date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such Record Date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purpose of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Securities Outstanding have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, and for that purpose the Securities Outstanding shall be computed as of such Record Date; that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such Record Date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after such Record Date.
provided
(e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action by the Holder of any Security shall bind each subsequent Holder of such Security, and each Holder of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof, with respect to anything done or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance upon such action, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
 
Any request, order, authorization, direction, consent, waiver, or other action to be taken by the Trustee, the Company, or the Securityholders hereunder (including any Authentication Order), and any notice to be given to the Trustee or the Company with respect to any action taken or to be taken by the Trustee, the Company, or the Securityholders hereunder, shall be sufficient if made in writing and
Section 1.05.
Notices, etc., to Trustee and Company
.
(a) (if to be furnished or delivered to or filed with the Trustee by the Company or any Securityholder) delivered by mail or facsimile to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: George J. Rayzis, or
(b) (if to be furnished or delivered to the Company by the Trustee or any Securityholder, and except as otherwise provided in Section 5.01(d) and, in the case of a request for repayment, except as specified in the Security carrying the right to repayment) mailed to the Company, first-class postage prepaid, at its principal office (as specified in the first paragraph of this instrument), Attention: Treasurer, or at any other address hereafter furnished in writing by the Company to the Trustee.
Where this Indenture or any Security provides for notice to Securityholders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise expressly provided herein or in such Security) if in writing and delivered electronically or mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Securityholder entitled hereunder to receive notice of such event, at his or her address as it appears in the Security Register as of the applicable Record Date, not later than the latest date or earlier than the earliest date prescribed by this Indenture or such Security for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Securityholders is given by electronic delivery or mail, neither the failure to deliver electronically or mail such notice nor any defect in any notice so delivered or mailed to any particular Securityholder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Securityholders. Where this Indenture or any Security provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Securityholders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
Section 1.06.
Notice To Securityholders; Waiver
.
In case, by reason of the suspension of regular mail service as a result of a strike, work stoppage or otherwise, it shall be impractical to mail notice of any event to any Securityholder when such notice is required to be given pursuant to any provision of this Indenture or the applicable Security, then any method of notification as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee and the Company shall be deemed to be sufficient for the giving of such notice.
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of the TIA, such required provision shall control.
Section 1.07.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
.
 
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents hereof are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of any provision of this Indenture.
Section 1.08.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
.
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Section 1.09.
Successors and Assigns
.
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 1.10.
Severability Clause
.
Nothing in this Indenture or in any Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, their successors hereunder, the Authenticating Agent, the Security Registrar, any Paying Agent, and the Holders of Securities (or such of them as may be affected thereby), any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 1.11.
Benefits Of Indenture
.
This Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Section 1.12.
Governing Law
.
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 1.13.
Counterparts
.
The Company agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, that (a) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court with respect to the Securities of any series it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, payable with respect to such Securities into a currency in which a judgment can be rendered (the ""), the rate of exchange from the currency in which payments under such Securities is payable (the "") into the Judgment Currency shall be the highest bid quotation (assuming European-style quotation  , Required Currency per Judgment Currency) received by the Company from three recognized foreign exchange dealers in the City of New York for the purchase of the aggregate amount of the judgment (as denominated in the Judgment Currency) on the New York Business Day preceding the date on which a final unappealable judgment is rendered, for settlement on such payment date, and at which the applicable dealer timely commits to execute a contract, and (b) the Company's obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (i) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or by any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with the preceding clause (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt by the judgment creditor of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (ii) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable, and (iii) shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Indenture.
Section 1.14.
Judgment Currency
.
Judgment Currency
Required Currency
i.e.
 
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date or Maturity of any Security shall not be a New York Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date or at Maturity; that no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date or Maturity, as the case may be.
Section 1.15.
Business Days
.
provided
. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or the interest, if any, on any Security, or for any claim based thereon, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder, director, officer or employee, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or indirectly through the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law or by the enforcement of any assessment of penalty or otherwise; it being expressly agreed and understood that this Indenture and all the Securities of each series are solely corporate obligations, and that no personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is incurred by, any incorporator, stockholder, director, officer or employee, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or indirectly through the Company or any successor corporation, because of the incurring of the indebtedness hereby authorized or under or by reason of any of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities, or to be implied herefrom or therefrom; and that all such personal liability is hereby expressly released and waived as a condition of, and as part of the consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issuance of the Securities.
Section 1.16.
Immunity of Incorporators, Stockholders, Directors and Officers
. The Company shall qualify this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 1.17.
Qualification of Indenture
. In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Section 1.18.
Force Majeure
The Securities of each series shall have such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon, as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange, or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. Any portion of the text of any Security may be set forth on the reverse thereof, with an appropriate reference thereto on the face of the Security.
Section 2.01.
Forms Generally
.
 
The definitive Securities, if any, shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or produced by any combination of these methods on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner permitted by the rules of any securities exchange, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Each Security shall be in one of the forms approved from time to time by or pursuant to any Board Resolution, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto. Prior to the delivery to the Trustee for authentication of any Security in any form approved by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a copy of such Board Resolution, together with a true and correct copy of the form of Security which has been approved thereby, or, if a Board Resolution authorizes a specific officer or officers to approve a form of Security, together with a certificate of such officer or officers approving the form of Security attached thereto; , that with respect to all Securities issued pursuant to the same Board Resolution, the required copy of such Board Resolution, together with the appropriate attachment, need be delivered only once. Any form of Security approved by or pursuant to a Board Resolution must be acceptable as to form to the Trustee, such acceptance to be evidenced by the Trustee's authentication of Securities in that form or by a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee and delivered to the Company.
Section 2.02.
Forms of Securities
.
provided, however
If Securities of a series are issuable in whole or in part in global form, the global security representing such Securities may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and may also provide that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced to reflect exchanges or increased to reflect the issuance of additional Securities. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount (or any increase or decrease in the amount) of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made in such manner and by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Authentication Order delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.03 hereof.
Section 2.03.
Securities in Global Form
.
The form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for any Security issued pursuant to this Indenture shall be substantially as follows:
Section 2.04.
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
.
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated, delivered, and Outstanding at any time under this Indenture is not limited.
Section 3.01.
General Title; General Limitations; Issuable in Series; Terms of Particular Series
.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series in such aggregate principal amount as may from time to time be authorized by the Board of Directors. Securities may differ between series in respect of any matters.
Each series of Securities shall be created either by or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions or by one or more indentures supplemental hereto. Any such Board Resolution or supplemental indenture (or, in the case of a series of Securities created pursuant to a Board Resolution, any officer or officers authorized by such Board Resolution) shall establish the terms of any such series of Securities, including the following (as and to such extent as may be applicable):
(1) the title of such series;
(2) the limit, if any, upon the aggregate principal amount or issue price of the Securities of such series;
(3) the issue date or issue dates of the Securities of such series;
(4) the Scheduled Maturity Date of the Securities of such series;
(5) the place or places where the principal, premium, if any, interest, if any, and additional amounts, if any, payable with respect to the Securities of such series shall be payable;
(6) whether the Securities of such series will be issued at par or at a premium over or a discount from their face amount;
(7) the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable) at which the Securities of such series shall bear interest, if any, and, if applicable, the method by which such rate or rates may be determined;
(8) the date or dates (or the method by which such date or dates may be determined) from which interest, if any, shall accrue, and the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable;
(9) the rights, if any, to defer payments of interest on the Securities by extending the interest payment periods and the duration of such extension;
(10) the period or periods within which, the Redemption Price(s) or Repayment Price(s) at which, and any other terms and conditions upon which the Securities of such series may be redeemed or repaid, in whole or in part, by the Company;
 
(11) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay, or purchase any of the Securities of such series pursuant to any sinking fund, mandatory redemption, purchase obligation, or analogous provision at the option of a Holder thereof, and the period or periods within which, the Redemption Price(s) or Repayment Price(s) or other price or prices at which, and any other terms and conditions upon which the Securities of such series shall be redeemed, repaid, or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
(12) whether the Securities of such series are to be issued in whole or in part in global form and, if so, the identity of the Depositary for such global security and the terms and conditions, if any, upon which interests in the Securities represented by such global security may be exchanged, in whole or in part, for the individual Securities represented thereby (if other than as provided in Section 3.05);
(13) whether such Securities are Subordinated Securities and if so, the provisions for such subordination if other than the provisions set forth in ARTICLE 13;
(14) the denominations in which the Securities of such series will be issued (which may be any denomination as set forth in the terms of such Securities) if other than U.S.$1,000 or an integral multiple thereof;
(15) whether and under what circumstances additional amounts on the Securities of such series shall be payable in respect of any taxes, assessments, or other governmental charges withheld or deducted and, if so, whether the Company will have the option to redeem such Securities rather than pay such additional amounts;
(16) the basis upon which interest shall be calculated;
(17) if the Securities of such series are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security for a definitive Security of such series) only upon receipt of certain certificates or other documents or upon satisfaction of other conditions, then the form and terms of such certificates, documents, and/or conditions;
(18) the exchange or conversion of the Securities of that series, whether or not at the option of the Holders thereof, for or into new Securities of a different series or for or into any other securities which may include shares of capital stock of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company or securities directly or indirectly convertible into or exchangeable for any such shares or securities of entities unaffiliated with the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company;
(19) if other than U.S. dollars, the foreign or composite currency or currencies (each such currency a "") in which the Securities of such series shall be denominated and in which payments of principal, premium, if any, interest, if any, or additional amounts, if any, payable with respect to such Securities shall or may be payable;
Specified Currency
(20) if the principal, premium, if any, interest, if any, or additional amounts, if any, payable with respect to the Securities of such series are to be payable in any currency other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, whether at the election of the Company or of a Holder thereof, the period or periods within which, and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made;
 
(21) if the amount of any payment of principal, premium, if any, interest, if any, or other sum payable with respect to the Securities of such series may be determined by reference to the relative value of one or more Specified Currencies, commodities, securities, or instruments, the level of one or more financial or non- financial indices, or any other designated factors or formulas, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(22) the exchange of Securities of such series, at the option of the Holders thereof, for other Securities of the same series of the same aggregate principal amount of a different authorized kind or different authorized denomination or denominations, or both;
(23) the appointment by the Trustee of an Authenticating Agent in one or more places other than the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, with power to act on behalf of the Trustee, and subject to its direction, in the authentication and delivery of the Securities of such series;
(24) any trustees, depositaries, paying agents, transfer agents, exchange agents, conversion agents, registrars, or other agents with respect to the Securities of such series if other than the Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar named herein;
(25) the portion of the principal amount of Securities of such series, if other than the principal amount thereof, that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02 or provable in bankruptcy pursuant to Section 5.04;
(26) any Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series, if not set forth herein, or any modification of any Event of Default set forth herein with respect to such series;
(27) any covenant solely for the benefit of the Securities of such series;
(28) the inapplicability of Section 4.02 and Section 4.03 of this Indenture to the Securities of such series and if Section 4.03 is applicable, the covenants subject to Covenant Defeasance under Section 4.03; and
(29) any other additional, eliminated or changed terms of the Securities of such series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 9.01(k)).
If all of the Securities issuable by or pursuant to any Board Resolution are not to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel required by Section 3.03 hereof at the time of issuance of each such Security, but such Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel shall be delivered at or before the time of issuance of the first such Security.
If any series of Securities shall be established by action taken pursuant to any Board Resolution, the execution by the officer or officers authorized by such Board Resolution of an Authentication Order (as defined in Section 3.03 below) with respect to the first Security of such series to be issued, and the delivery of such Authentication Order to the Trustee at or before the time of issuance of the first Security of such series, shall constitute a sufficient record of such action. Except as otherwise permitted by Section 3.03, if all of the Securities of any such series are not to be issued at one time, the Company shall deliver an Authentication Order with respect to each subsequent issuance of Securities of such series, but such Authentication Orders may be executed by any authorized officer or officers of the Company, whether or not such officer or officers would have been authorized to establish such series pursuant to the aforementioned Board Resolution.
 
Unless otherwise provided by or pursuant to the Board Resolution or supplemental indenture creating such series (i) a series may be reopened for issuances of additional Securities of such series, and (ii) all Securities of the same series shall be substantially identical, except for the initial Interest Payment Date, issue price, initial interest accrual date and the amount of the first interest payment.
The form of the Securities of each series shall be established in a supplemental indenture or by or pursuant to the Board Resolution creating such series. The Securities of each series shall be distinguished from the Securities of each other series in such manner as the Board of Directors or its authorized representative or representatives may determine.
Unless otherwise provided with respect to Securities of a particular series, the Securities of any series may only be issuable in registered form, without coupons.
The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations and currency as shall be provided in the provisions of this Indenture or by or pursuant to the Board Resolution or supplemental indenture creating such series. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of that series shall be issuable only in fully registered form in denominations of U.S. $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
Section 3.02.
Denominations and Currency
.
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any two of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Treasurer of the Company under its corporate seal reproduced thereon and attested by its Secretary or any one of its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile. The seal of the Company may be in the form of a facsimile thereof and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted, or otherwise reproduced on the Securities. Typographical and other minor errors or defects in any such reproduction of the seal or any such signature shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any Security that has been duly authenticated and delivered by the Trustee.
Section 3.03.
Execution, Authentication and Delivery, and Dating
.
Unless otherwise provided in the form of Security for any series, all Securities shall be dated the date of their authentication.
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
 
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for authentication and delivery (such Order an "") with respect to such Securities, and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of such Authentication Order, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee set forth in the Authentication Order, and subject to the provisions hereof, authenticate and deliver such Securities to such recipients as may be specified from time to time pursuant to such Authentication Order. The material terms of such Securities shall be determinable by reference to such Authentication Order and procedures. If provided for in such procedures, such Authentication Order may authorize authentication and delivery of such Securities pursuant to oral instructions from the Company or its duly authorized agent, which instructions shall be promptly confirmed in writing. In authenticating such Securities and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 6.01 hereof) shall be fully protected in relying upon:
Authentication Order
(1) an executed supplemental indenture, if any;
(2) an Officers' Certificate, certifying as to the authorized form or forms and terms of such Securities; and
(3) an Opinion of Counsel, stating that:
(b) the form or forms and terms of such Securities have been established by and in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; that if all such Securities are not to be issued at the same time, such Opinion of Counsel may state that such terms will be established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture, subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel; and
provided
(c) such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization, and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and to general principles of equity;
, that if all Securities issuable by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or supplemental indenture are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to this paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each such Security if such documents are delivered at or prior to the time of authentication upon original issuance of the first such Security to be issued. After the original issuance of the first such Security to be issued, any separate request by the Company that the Trustee authenticate such Securities for original issuance will be deemed to be a certification by the Company that it is in compliance with all conditions precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
provided, however
 
If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 3.01 that Securities of a series may be issued in whole or in part in global form, then the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall (in accordance with this Section 3.03 and the Authentication Order with respect to such series) authenticate and deliver, one or more Securities in global form that (i) shall represent and shall be denominated in an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series to be represented by such one or more Securities in global form, (ii) shall be registered, in the name of the Depositary for such Security or Securities in global form, or in the name of a nominee of such Depositary, (iii) shall be delivered to such Depositary or pursuant to such Depositary's instruction, and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially as follows: "Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in certificated form, this Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary." Each Depositary designated pursuant to Section 3.01 for a Security in global form must, at the time of its designation and at all times while it serves as Depositary, be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and any other applicable statute or regulation.
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and, upon receipt of the documents required by Section 2.02, Section 3.01 and Section 3.03 hereof, together with an Authentication Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities of such series that are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed, or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued in registered form, without coupons, and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions, and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities. In the case of Securities of any series for which a temporary Security may be issued in global form, such temporary global security shall represent all of the Outstanding Securities of such series and tenor.
Section 3.04.
Temporary Securities
.
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form, which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions thereof, if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of such series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable, at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or at such other office or agency as may be maintained by the Company in a Place of Payment pursuant to Section 10.02 hereof, for definitive Securities of such series having identical terms and provisions, upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series, at the Company's own expense and without charge to the Holder; and upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of such series in authorized denominations containing identical terms and provisions. Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 with respect to a temporary Security in global form, until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of such series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
 
With respect to the Securities of each series, the Trustee shall keep a register (herein sometimes referred to as the "") which shall provide for the registration of Securities of such series, and for transfers of Securities of such series, in accordance with information to be provided to the Trustee by the Company, subject to such reasonable regulations as the Trustee may prescribe. Such register shall be in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. At all reasonable times the information contained in such register or registers shall be available for inspection at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or at such other office or agency to be maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 10.02 hereof.
Section 3.05.
Registration, Transfer and Exchange
.
Security Register
Upon due presentation for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company with respect to that series pursuant to Section 10.02 hereof, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of such series of any authorized denominations, of like aggregate principal amount, tenor, terms and Scheduled Maturity Date.
Any other provision of this Section 3.05 notwithstanding, unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for the individual Securities represented thereby, in definitive form, a Security in global form representing all or a portion of the Securities of a series may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary for such series to a nominee of such Depositary, or by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary, or by such Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary for such series or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of such series of any authorized denominations, of like aggregate principal amount, tenor, terms and Scheduled Maturity Date, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Securityholder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
If at any time the Depositary for the Securities of a series represented by one or more Securities in global form notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Securities of such series, or if at any time the Depositary for the Securities of such series shall no longer be eligible under Section 3.01 hereof, the Company, by Company Order, shall appoint a successor Depositary with respect to the Securities of such series. If a successor Depositary for the Securities of such series is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company's election pursuant to Section 3.01 that such Securities be represented by one or more Securities in global form shall no longer be effective with respect to the Securities of such series and the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such series, will authenticate and deliver Securities of such series in definitive form, in authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount, and of like terms and tenor, equal to the principal amount of the Security or Securities in global form representing such series, in exchange for such Security or Securities in global form.
 
The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion and subject to the procedures of the Depositary determine that individual Securities of any series issued in global form shall no longer be represented by such Security or Securities in global form. In such event the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such series and of the same terms and tenor, will authenticate and deliver Securities of such series in definitive form, in authorized denominations, and in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Security or Securities in global form representing such series in exchange for such Security or Securities in global form.
If specified by the Company pursuant to Section 3.01 with respect to a series of Securities issued in global form, the Depositary for such series of Securities may surrender a Security in global form for such series of Securities in exchange in whole or in part for Securities of such series in definitive form and of like terms and tenor on such terms as are acceptable to the Company and such Depositary. Thereupon, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of an Authentication Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such series, shall authenticate and deliver, without service charge:
(a) to each Person specified by such Depositary, a new definitive Security or Securities of the same series and of the same tenor and terms, in authorized denominations, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for such Person's beneficial interest in the Security in global form; and
(b) to such Depositary, a new Security in global form in a denomination equal to the difference, if any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Security in global form and the aggregate principal amount of the definitive Securities delivered to Holders pursuant to clause (a) above.
Upon the exchange of a Security in global form for Securities in definitive form, such Security in global form shall be canceled by the Trustee or an agent of the Company or the Trustee. Securities issued in definitive form in exchange for a Security in global form pursuant to this Section 3.05 shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary for such Security in global form, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee or an agent of the Company or the Trustee in writing. The Trustee or such agent shall deliver such Securities to or as directed by the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered or to the Depositary.
Whenever any securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
 
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, redemption or payment shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
Unless otherwise provided in the Security to be transferred or exchanged, no service charge shall be imposed for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may (unless otherwise provided in such Security) require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.04, Section 3.06, Section 9.06 and Section 11.07 hereof not involving any transfer.
The Company shall not be required to (i) issue, register the transfer of, or exchange any Security of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of such series selected for redemption under Section 11.03 and ending at the close of business on the date of such mailing, or (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except in the case of any Security to be redeemed in part, the portion thereof not to be redeemed.
If (i) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee or the Company, or the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and (ii) there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company may in its discretion execute and upon request of the Company the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor, terms, series, Scheduled Maturity Date, and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. The Company may charge for any of its expenses in replacing a Security.
Section 3.06.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of the same series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
 
Interest on any Security which is payable and is punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall, if so provided in such Security, be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the applicable Record Date, notwithstanding any transfer or exchange of such Security subsequent to such Record Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date (unless such Interest Payment Date is also the date of Maturity of such Security).
Section 3.07.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
.
Any interest on any Security which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on the applicable Record Date by virtue of his having been such Holder; and, except as hereinafter provided, such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (a) or clause (b) below:
Defaulted Interest
(a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names any such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. The Company shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 nor less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Holder of each such Security at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (b).
(b) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Interest on Securities of any series that bear interest may be paid by mailing a check to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such address as shall appear in the Securities Register for such series or by such other means as may be specified in the form of such Security.
 
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.07 and the provisions of Section 3.05 hereof, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee, and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered on the applicable Record Date(s) as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal, premium, if any, interest, if any (subject to Section 3.05 and Section 3.07 hereof), and any additional amounts payable with respect to such Security, and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee, nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Section 3.08.
Persons Deemed Owners
.
None of the Company, the Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Security in global form or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests and each of them may act or refrain from acting without liability on any information relating to such records provided by the Depositary.
All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer, exchange, or credit against a sinking or analogous fund shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and, if not already canceled, shall be promptly canceled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. Acquisition of such Securities by the Company shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are delivered to the Trustee for cancellation. No Security shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee shall dispose of all canceled Securities in accordance with its customary procedures and deliver a certificate of such disposition to the Company.
Section 3.09.
Cancellation
.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated in Section 3.01, interest on the Securities shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Section 3.10.
Computation of Interest
.
 
This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect with respect to any series of Securities (except as to any surviving rights of transfer or exchange of Securities of such series expressly provided for herein or in the form of Security for such series), and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series, when
Section 4.01.
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
.
(a) either
(i) all Securities of that series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (A) Securities of such series which have been destroyed, lost, or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 3.06, and (B) Securities of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 4.07) have been delivered to the Trustee canceled or for cancellation; or
(ii) all such Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee canceled or for cancellation
(A) have become due and payable, or
(B) will, in accordance with their Scheduled Maturity Date, become due and payable within one year, or
(C) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and, in any of the cases described in subparagraphs (A), (B), or(C) above, the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee, as trust funds in trust for the purpose, (x) an amount in money sufficient, (y) U.S. Government Obligations or Equivalent Government Securities which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money sufficient, or (z) a combination of (x) and (y) sufficient, in the opinion with respect to (y) and (z) of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities with respect to principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable), or to the Scheduled Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as the case may be; , that if such U.S. Government Obligations or Equivalent Government Securities are callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, the amount of such money, U.S. Government Obligations, and Equivalent Government Securities deposited with the Trustee must be sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness referred to above if such issuer elects to exercise such call or redemption provisions at any time prior to the Scheduled Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as the case may be. The Company, but not the Trustee, shall be responsible for monitoring any such call or redemption provision; and
provided, however
(b) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to the Securities of such series; and
 
(c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities, the obligations of the Company under paragraph (a) of this Section 4.01 and its obligations to the Trustee with respect to that series under Section 6.07 shall survive, and the obligations of the Trustee under Section 4.05, Section 4.07 and Section 10.03 shall survive.
. The provisions of this Section and Section 4.04 (insofar as relating to this Section) shall apply to the Securities of each series unless specifically otherwise provided in a Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto provided pursuant to Section 3.01. In addition to discharge of this Indenture pursuant to Section 4.01, in the case of any series of Securities with respect to which the exact amount described in subparagraph (a) of Section 4.04 can be determined at the time of making the deposit referred to in such subparagraph (a), the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness on all the Securities of such a series as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 4.04 are satisfied, and the provisions of this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series shall no longer be in effect (except as to (i) rights of registration of transfer and exchange of Securities of such series, (ii) substitution of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities of such series, (iii) rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in subparagraph (a) of Section 4.04, payments of principal thereof, premium, if any, and interest, if any, thereon upon the original stated due dates or upon the Redemption Dates therefor (but not upon acceleration), and remaining rights of the Holders of Securities of such series to receive mandatory sinking fund payments, if any, (iv) the rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder, (v) this Section 4.02, Section 4.07, Section 10.02 and Section 10.03 and (vi) the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the property so deposited with the Trustee payable to all or any of them) (hereinafter called ""), and the Trustee at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same. Subject to compliance with the provisions of this ARTICLE 4, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 4.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 4.03.
Section 4.02.
Discharge and Defeasance
Defeasance
 
The provisions of this Section and Section 4.04 (insofar as relating to this Section) shall apply to the Securities of each series unless specifically otherwise provided in a Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto provided pursuant to Section 3.01. In the case of any series of Securities with respect to which the exact amount described in subparagraph (a) of Section 4.04 can be determined at the time of making the deposit referred to in such subparagraph (a), (i) the Company shall be released from its obligations under any covenants specified in or pursuant to Section 3.01 as being subject to Covenant Defeasance with respect to such series (except as to (a) rights of registration of transfer and exchange of Securities of such series and rights under Section 4.07, Section 10.02 and Section 10.03, (b) substitution of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities of such series, (c) rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, from the Company pursuant to Section 10.01, payments of principal thereof and interest, if any, thereon upon the original stated due dates or upon the Redemption Dates therefor (but not upon acceleration), and remaining rights of the Holders of Securities of such series to receive mandatory sinking fund payments, if any, (d) the rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (e) the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the property so deposited with the Trustee payable to all or any of them), and (ii) the occurrence of any event specified in Section 5.01(d) (with respect to any of the covenants specified in or pursuant to Section 3.01 as being subject to Covenant Defeasance with respect to such series) shall be deemed not to be or result in a default or an Event of Default, in each case with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 4.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called ""), and the Trustee at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same. For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 5.01(d)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be unaffected thereby.
Section 4.03.
Covenant Defeasance
.
Covenant Defeasance
Section 4.04.
Conditions To Defeasance Or Covenant Defeasance.
The following shall be the conditions to application of either Section 4.02 or Section 4.03 to the Outstanding Securities:
(a) with reference to Section 4.02 or Section 4.03, the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited with the Trustee as funds in trust, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of Securities of such series (i) money in an amount, or (ii) U.S. Government Obligations or Equivalent Government Securities which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii), sufficient, in the opinion with respect to (ii) and (iii) of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge each installment of principal (including mandatory sinking fund payments) of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Outstanding Securities of such series on the dates such installments of interest, premium or principal are due, including upon redemption; , that if such U.S. Government Obligations and Equivalent Government Securities are callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, the amount of such money, U.S. Government Obligations, and/or Equivalent Government Securities deposited with the Trustee must be sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness referred to above if the issuer of any such U.S. Government Obligations or Equivalent Government Securities elects to exercise such call or redemption provisions at any time prior to the Scheduled Maturity Date or Redemption Date of such Securities, as the case may be. The Company, but not the Trustee, shall be responsible for monitoring any such call or redemption provision.
provided, however
 
(b) in the case of Defeasance under Section 4.02, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel based on the fact that (x) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (y) since the date hereof, there has been a change in the applicable United States federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit, defeasance and discharge and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times, as would have been the case if such deposit, Defeasance and discharge had not occurred;
(c) in the case of Covenant Defeasance under Section 4.03, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that, and such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit and Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times, as would have been the case if such deposit and Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
(d) no Event of Default or event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit, after giving effect to such deposit or, in the case of a Defeasance under Section 4.02, no Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(e) or Section 5.01(f) shall have occurred, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit or, if longer, ending on the day following the expiration of the longest preference period applicable to the Company in respect of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period);
(e) such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest within the meaning of the TIA, assuming all Securities of a series were in default within the meaning of the TIA;
(f) such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound;
(g) such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, unless the trust is registered under such Act or exempt from registration;
(h) if the Securities of such series are to be redeemed prior to their Stated Maturity Date (other than from mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments), notice of such redemption shall have been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made; and
(i) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance, as the case may be, have been complied with.
 
All money and U.S. Government Obligations or Equivalent Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.01 or Section 4.04 hereof shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and of the series of Securities in respect of which it was deposited, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent), as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Section 4.05.
Application of Trust Money; Excess Funds
.
The Company will pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or U.S. Government Obligations or Equivalent Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 4.01 or Section 4.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities.
Anything in this ARTICLE 4 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S. Governmental Obligations or Equivalent Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 4.01 or Section 4.04 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 4.01 or Section 4.04, as applicable), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent satisfaction and discharge, Covenant Defeasance or Defeasance of the applicable series.
Upon the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, all moneys then held by any Paying Agent of the Securities (other than the Trustee) shall, upon demand of the Company, be repaid to it or paid to the Trustee, and thereupon such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys.
Section 4.06.
Paying Agent to Repay Moneys Held
.
Any amounts deposited with or paid to the Trustee or any Paying Agent or then held by the Company, in trust for payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Securities and not applied but remaining unclaimed by the Holders of such Securities for two years after the date upon which the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on such Securities, as the case may be, shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee on Company Request or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of any of such Securities shall thereafter look only to the Company for any payment which such Holder may be entitled to collect (until such time as such unclaimed amounts shall escheat, if at all, to the State of New York or any other applicable State) and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease. The Trustee and the Paying Agent, as applicable, and not the Company, shall be responsible for doing or causing to be done all things necessary for any unclaimed amounts held by it in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Securities to escheat, if at all, to the State of New York or any other applicable State. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trustee or Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once a week for two successive weeks (in each case on any day of the week) in a newspaper printed in the English language and customarily published at least once a day at least five days in each calendar week and of general circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City and State of New York, a notice that said amounts have not been so applied and that after a date named therein any unclaimed balance of said amounts then remaining will be promptly returned to the Company.
Section 4.07.
Return of Unclaimed Amounts
.
 
"", wherever used herein, means with respect to any series of Securities any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body), unless such event is either inapplicable to a particular series or it is specifically deleted or modified in the manner contemplated by Section 3.01:
Section 5.01.
Events of Default
.
Event of Default
(a) default in the payment of any interest on any Security of such series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(b) default in the payment of the principal amount of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of such series as and when the same shall become due, either at Maturity, upon redemption, by declaration, or otherwise; or
(c) default in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund or analogous obligation when the same becomes due by the terms of the Securities of such series and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(d) default, subject to the provisions of Section 10.06, in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture in respect of the Securities of such series (other than a covenant or warranty in respect of the Securities of such series a default in the performance of which or the breach of which is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 51% in the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" hereunder; or
Notice of Default
(e) the entry of an order for relief against the Company under the Federal Bankruptcy Act by a court having jurisdiction in the premises or a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent under any other applicable Federal or State law, or the entry of a decree or order approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
 
(f) the consent by the Company to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
(g) any other Event of Default provided for with respect to the Securities of such series in accordance with Section 3.01.
A default under any indebtedness of the Company other than the Securities will not constitute an Event of Default under this Indenture, and a default under one series of Securities will not constitute a default under any other series of Securities.
If any Event of Default described in Section 5.01 above (other than Event of Default described in Section 5.01(e) and Section 5.01(f)) shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to any series, then and in each and every such case, unless the principal of all the Securities of such series shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding hereunder, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of such series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all the Securities of such series and any and all accrued interest thereon to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, any provision of this Indenture or the Securities of such series to the contrary notwithstanding. If an Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(e) or Section 5.01(f) occurs, the principal amount of the Securities of such series and any and all accrued interest thereon shall immediately become and be due and payable without any declaration or other act on the party of the Trustee or any Holder. No declaration of acceleration by the Trustee with respect to any series of Securities shall constitute a declaration of acceleration by the Trustee with respect to any other series of Securities, and no declaration of acceleration by the Holders of at least 51% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall constitute a declaration of acceleration or other action by any of the Holders of any other series of Securities, in each case whether or not the Event of Default on which such declaration is based shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to more than one series of Securities, and whether or not any Holders of the Securities of any such affected series shall also be Holders of Securities of any other such affected series.
Section 5.02.
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission, and Annulment
.
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration has been made with respect to the Securities of any series and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if all Events of Default with respect to such series of Securities, other than the nonpayment of the principal of the Securities of such series which have become due solely by such acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 5.13, if such cure or waiver does not conflict with any judgment or decree set forth in Section 5.01(e) and Section 5.01(f) and if all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel have been paid.
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
. The Company covenants that if:
Section 5.03.
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
(a) default is made in the payment of any installment of interest on any Security of any series when such interest becomes due and payable, or
(b) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof, or
(c) default is made in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund or analogous obligation when the same becomes due by the terms of the Securities of any series, and
(d) any such default continues for any period of grace provided in relation to such default pursuant to Section 5.01,
then, with respect to the Securities of such series, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holder of any such Security (or the Holders of any such series in the case of clause (c) above), the whole amount then due and payable on any such Security (or on the Securities of any such series in the case of clause (c) above) for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, with interest (to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) upon the overdue principal (and premium, if any) and upon overdue installments of interest, if any, at such rate or rates as may be prescribed therefor by the terms of any such Security (or of Securities of any such series in the case of clause (c) above); and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07.
If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series and collect the money adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
 
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition, or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise,
Section 5.04.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
.
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (or, with respect to Original Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such Securities), premium, if any, and interest, if any, owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities, and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary and advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements, and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07) and of the Securityholders allowed in such judicial proceedings, and
(b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator (or other similar official) in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Securityholder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Securityholders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee and its agent and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07 hereof.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Securityholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Securityholder in any such proceeding.
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities of any series may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities of such series or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee and its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities, of the series in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Section 5.05.
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
.
 
Any money collected by the Trustee with respect to a series of Securities pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, upon presentation of the Securities of such series and the notation thereon of the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof, if fully paid:
Section 5.06.
Application of Money Collected
.
To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07 hereof.
First:
To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon the Securities of that series for principal, premium, if any, interest, if any, and additional amounts, if any, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind.
Second:
To the Company or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct.
Third:
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Securities pursuant to this Section 5.06
No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
Section 5.07.
Limitation on Suits
.
(a) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series;
(b) the Holders of not less than 51% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(c) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(d) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request, and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(e) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series; it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders of Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders of Securities of such series, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and proportionate benefit of all the Holders of all Securities of such series.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal, premium, if any, and (subject to Section 3.07) interest, if any, (and additional amounts, if any) on such Security on or after the respective payment dates expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective date, and such right shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
Section 5.08.
Unconditional Right of Securityholders to Receive Principal, Premium, and Interest
.
If the Trustee or any Securityholder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, then and in every such case the Company, the Trustee and the Securityholders shall, subject to any determination in such proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Securityholders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Section 5.09.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
.
No right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Securityholders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right or remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 5.10.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
.
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Securityholders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Securityholders, as the case may be.
Section 5.11.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
.
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series; that
Section 5.12.
Control by Securityholders
.
provided
(a) the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that the action so directed may not lawfully be taken or would conflict with this Indenture or if the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer, determine that the proceedings so directed would involve it in personal liability or be unjustly prejudicial to the Holders not taking part in such direction, and
(b) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
 
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series, waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default not theretofore cured:
Section 5.13.
Waiver of Past Defaults
.
(a) in the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Security of such series, or in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund or analogous obligation with respect to the Securities of such series, or
(b) in respect of a covenant or provision in this Indenture which, under ARTICLE 9 hereof, cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series.
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder or group of Securityholders holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series to which the suit relates, or to any suit instituted by any Securityholder for the enforcement of the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Security on or after the respective payment dates expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on or after the Redemption Date or Repayment Date).
Section 5.14.
Undertaking for Costs
.
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law (other than any bankruptcy law) wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Section 5.15.
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws
.
.
Section 6.01.
Certain Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee
(a) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities,
(i) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may, with respect to Securities of such series, conclusively rely upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
 
(b) In case an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise, with respect to the Securities of such series, such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
(c) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that
(i) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of Subsection (a) of this Section;
(ii) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(iii) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series relating to the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series; and
(iv) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section and to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Securityholders of such series, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such default hereunder known to the Trustee, unless such default shall have been cured or waived; , that, except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund installment or analogous obligation with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Securityholders of such series and; , that, in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 5.01(d) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Securityholders of such series shall be given until at least 60 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default", with respect to Securities of any series, means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
Section 6.02.
Notice of Defaults
.
provided, however
provided, further
Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.01 above:
Section 6.03.
Certain Rights of Trustee
.
(a) the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any request, direction or order of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(d) the Trustee may consult with counsel and any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Securityholders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney; and
 
(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder.
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Section 6.04.
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
.
The Trustee or any Paying Agent, Security Registrar, or other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Section 6.08 and Section 6.13 hereof, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent, Security Registrar, or such other agent.
Section 6.05.
May Hold Securities
.
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Company.
Section 6.06.
Money Held in Trust
.
. The Company covenants and agrees:
Section 6.07.
Compensation and Reimbursement
(a) to pay the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the reasonable expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and
(c) to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
Without prejudice to any other rights available to the Trustee under applicable law, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(e) and Section 5.01(f) above, such expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and compensation for such services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, or other similar law.
 
The Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by it as such for any amount owing to it or any predecessor Trustee pursuant to this Section 6.07, except with respect to funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities.
The provisions of this Section shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, it shall either eliminate such interest or resign as Trustee with respect to one or more series of Securities, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. To the extent permitted by such Act, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest by virtue of being a trustee under this Indenture with respect to Securities of more than one series or by virtue of being a trustee under any indenture relating to debt securities or guarantees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Section 6.08.
Disqualification; Conflicting Interests
.
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder with respect to each series of Securities that shall be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any State or Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority and having its principal office and place of business in the City of New York, if there be such a corporation having its principal office and place of business in said City and willing to act as Trustee on customary and usual terms. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee with respect to any series of Securities shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article. The Trustee shall at all times satisfy all other requirements of the Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a).
Section 6.09.
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility
.
.
Section 6.10.
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee under Section 6.11.
(b) The Trustee may resign with respect to any one or more series of Securities at any time by giving at least 60 days' written notice thereof to the Company. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 60 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
(c) The Trustee may be removed with respect to any series of Securities at any time by Act of the Holders of 66 2/3% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
 
(d) If at any time:
(i) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 6.08 above with respect to any series of Securities after written request therefor by the Company or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of that series for at least 6 months, or
(ii) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 6.09 above with respect to any series of Securities and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Securityholder, or
(iii) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting with respect to any series of Securities, or
(iv) the Trustee shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case (A) the Company may remove the Trustee, with respect to the series or, in the case of clause (iv), with respect to all series, or (B) subject to Section 5.14, any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least 6 months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the series or, in the case of clause (iv), with respect to all series.
(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting with respect to any series of Securities, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee with respect to any series of Securities for any cause, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee for that series of Securities. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapacity, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to such series of Securities shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of 66 2/3% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, become the successor Trustee with respect to such series and supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company with respect to such series. If no successor Trustee with respect to such series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Securityholders of such series and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter provided, any Securityholder who has been bona fide Holder of a Security of that series for at least 6 months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
(f) The successor Trustee shall give notice of the resignation and removal of the Trustee with respect to any series and of the successor Trustee's own appointment with respect to any series by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of Securities of that series as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its principal Corporate Trust Office.
 
Every successor Trustee appointed hereunder with respect to all series of Securities shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the predecessor Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor Trustee shall become effective, and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor Trustee with respect to any such series; but, on request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such predecessor Trustee shall, upon payment of its reasonable charges, if any, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the predecessor Trustee, and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such predecessor Trustee hereunder.
Section 6.11.
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
.
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the predecessor Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any applicable series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to transfer and to conform to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series as to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates and (2) if the predecessor Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series as to which the predecessor Trustee is not being succeeded shall continue to be vested in the predecessor Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be Trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; and, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the first or second preceding paragraph, as the case may be.
No successor Trustee with respect to any series of Securities shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible with respect to that series under this Article.
 
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder; that such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor Trustee by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
Section 6.12.
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
.
provided
If and when the Trustee shall be or shall become a creditor, of the Company (or of any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or against any such other obligor, as the case may be).
Section 6.13.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
.
At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding the Trustee, with the approval of the Company, may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 3.06, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder.
Section 6.14.
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
.
Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as an Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and, if other than the Company itself, subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
 
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and, if other than the Company, to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and, if other than the Company, to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee, with the approval of the Company, may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section.
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
If the Trustee is not the Security Registrar, the Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee (delivery of which may be by electronic mail):
Section 7.01.
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Securityholders
.
(a) semiannually, not more than 15 days after January 1 and July 1 in each year, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, a list of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of each series as of such date, and
(b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; that if the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar for such series, such list shall not be required to be furnished.
provided
.
Section 7.02.
Preservation of Information; Communications to Securityholders
(a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 7.01 and the names and addresses of Holders of Securities received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 7.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
(b) If three or more Holders of Securities of any series (hereinafter referred to as "") apply in writing to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Security of such series for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the applicants desire to communicate with other Holders of Securities of such series or with the Holders of all Securities with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under such Securities and is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall, within five Business Days after the receipt of such application, at its election, either:
applicants
(i) afford such applicants access to the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.02(a), or
(ii) inform such applicants as to the approximate number of Holders of Securities of such series or all Securities, as the case may be, whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.02(a), and as to the approximate cost of mailing to such Securityholders the form of proxy or other communication, if any, specified in such application.
 
If the Trustee shall elect not to afford such applicants access to such information, the Trustee shall, upon the written request of such applicants, mail to each Holder of a Security of such series or to all Securityholders, as the case may be, whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.02(a), a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of mailing, unless within five days after such tender, the Trustee shall mail to such applicants and file with the Commission, together with a copy of the material to be mailed, a written statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee, such mailing would be contrary to the best interests of the Holders of Securities of such series or all Securityholders, as the case may be, or would be in violation of applicable law. Such written statement shall specify the basis of such opinion. If the Commission, after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections specified in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order refusing to sustain any of such objections or if, after the entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections, the Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all the objections so sustained have been met and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail copies of such material to all Securityholders of such series or all Securityholders, as the case may be, with reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the renewal of such tender; otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any obligation or duty to such applicants respecting their application.
(c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities in accordance with Section 7.02(b), regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 7.02(b).
Section 7.03.
Reports by Trustee
.
(a) The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. If required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall, within 60 days after each May 15 following the date of this Indenture, deliver to each Holder a brief report dated as of such May 15, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a). The Trustee shall also comply with Trust Indenture Act Sections 313(b) and 313(c).
(b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company as required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(d). The Company will promptly notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange.
The Company shall:
Section 7.04.
Reports by Company
.
(a) file with the Trustee (electronically or in hard copy), within 30 days after the Company files the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of said Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations; notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Trustee shall have no duty to review such documents for the purposes of determining compliance with any provision of this Indenture;
 
(b) file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants of this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations; and
(c) transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section as may be required by the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission;
, , that the Company will be deemed to have furnished such information, documents or reports to the Trustee or the Holders of the Securities as required pursuant to this Section 7.04 if it has filed such information, documents or reports with the Commission using the EDGAR filing system (or any successor electronic filing system utilized by the Commission for the filing of such information, documents or reports) and such information, documents or reports are publicly available via EDGAR (or such successor electronic filing system).
provided
however
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other corporation or convey or transfer all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, unless;
Section 8.01.
Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms
.
(a) either the Company shall be the continuing corporation, or the corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, or event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
 
(c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and any assumption permitted or required by this Article complies with the provisions of this Article.
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 8.01, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein and the Company shall thereupon be released from all obligations hereunder and under the Securities. Such successor corporation thereupon may cause to be signed and may issue any or all of the Securities issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee; and, upon the order of such successor corporation, instead of the Company, and subject to all the terms, conditions and limitations in this Indenture prescribed, the Trustee shall authenticate and shall deliver any Securities which previously shall have been signed and delivered by the officers of the Company to the Trustee for authentication, and any Securities which such successor corporation thereafter shall cause to be signed and delivered to the Trustee for that purpose. All of the Securities so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Securities theretofore or thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Securities had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
Section 8.02.
Successor Corporation Substituted
.
In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance such changes in phraseology and form (but not in substance) may be made in the Securities thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate.
Without the consent of the Holders of any Securities, the Company and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the TIA as in force at the date of execution thereof), in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
Section 9.01.
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Securityholders
.
(a) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company, or successive successions, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company pursuant to ARTICLE 8 hereof; or
(b) to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions or conditions for the protection of the Holders of the Securities of any or all series as the Company and the Trustee shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders of the Securities of any or all series or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company (and if such covenants or the surrender of such right or power are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included or such surrenders are expressly being made solely for the benefit of one or more specified series); or
 
(c) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein or in any supplemental indenture, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture that do not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect; or
(d) to add to this Indenture such provisions as may be expressly permitted by the TIA, excluding, however, the provisions referred to in Section 316(a)(2) of the TIA as in effect at the date as of which this instrument is executed or any corresponding provision in any similar federal statute hereafter enacted; or
(e) to add guarantors or co-obligors with respect to any series of Securities; or
(f) to secure any series of Securities; or
(g) to establish any form of Security, as provided in ARTICLE 2 hereof, and to provide for the issuance of any series of Securities, as provided in ARTICLE 3 hereof, and to set forth the terms thereof, and/or to add to the rights of the Holders of the Securities of any series; or
(h) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by another corporation as a successor Trustee hereunder with respect to one or more series of Securities and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to Section 6.11 hereof; or
(i) to add any additional Events of Default in respect of the Securities of any or all series (and if such additional Events of Default are to be in respect of less than all series of Securities, stating that such Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of one or more specified series); or
(j) to comply with the requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA; or
(k) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture or any indentures supplemental hereto in respect of one or more series of Securities or otherwise make any change in any series of Securities; , , if such addition, change or elimination adversely affects, in any material respect, the rights of the Holder of any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture, such additional, change or elimination shall become effective with respect to such series only when no Security of such series is Outstanding.
provided
however
 
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture or indentures, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each such series under this Indenture; , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby:
Section 9.02.
Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Securityholders
.
provided, however
(a) change the Scheduled Maturity Date or the stated payment date of any payment of premium or interest payable on any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or any amount of interest or premium payable thereon, or
(b) change the method of computing the amount of principal of any Security or any interest payable thereon on any date, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any payment of premium or interest thereon is payable, or
(c) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment described in clauses (a) or (b) on or after the same shall become due and payable, whether at Maturity or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on or after the Redemption Date or the Repayment Date, as the case may be; or
(d) change or waive the redemption or repayment provisions of any series;
(e) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences, provided for in this Indenture; or
(f) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 5.13 or Section 10.06, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; , that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 10.06, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Section 6.11 and Section 9.01(h); or
provided, however
(g) adversely affect the ranking or priority of any series or, in the case of Subordinated Securities of any series, modify any of the subordination provisions or the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" relating to such series in a manner adverse to the holders of such Subordinated Securities;
(h) release any guarantor or co-obligor from any of its obligations under its guarantee of the Securities or this Indenture, except in compliance with the terms of this Indenture; or
(i) waive any Event of Default pursuant to Section 5.01(a), Section 5.01(b) or Section 5.01(c) hereof with respect to such Security.
 
A supplemental indenture that changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture that has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or that modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Securityholders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Upon request of the Company and upon filing with the Trustee of evidence of an Act of Securityholders as aforementioned, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, powers, trusts, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture. In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 6.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
Section 9.03.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
.
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and the respective rights, limitation of rights, duties, powers, trusts and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company, and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be determined, exercised and enforced thereunder to the extent provided therein.
Section 9.04.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
.
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the TIA as then in effect.
Section 9.05.
Conformity With Trust Indenture Act
.
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities.
Section 9.06.
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
.
 
The Company agrees, for the benefit of each particular series of the Securities, that it will duly and punctually pay in the currency or currency unit in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on that series of the Securities in accordance with the terms of the Securities of such series and this Indenture. An installment of principal of, premium or interest on such Securities shall be considered paid on the date it is due if the Trustee or a Paying Agent for such Securities (other than the Company or an Affiliate of the Company) holds on that date immediately available funds designated for and sufficient to pay such installment.
Section 10.01.
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
.
.
Section 10.02.
Maintenance of Office or Agency
(a) The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for that series an office or agency where the Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, an office or agency where the Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company with respect to the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee for the Securities of that series of the location, and any change in the location, of any such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency in respect of any series of the Securities or shall fail to furnish the Trustee for the Securities of that series with the address thereof, such presentations (to the extent permitted by law), and surrenders of the Securities of that series may be made and notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of such Trustee.
(b) Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 3.01 with respect to a series of the Securities, the Company hereby designates as a Place of Payment for each series of the Securities the office or agency of the Company in the City of Philadelphia, and initially appoints the Trustee at its office as Paying Agent in such city and as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent for any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any of the Securities of such series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series a sum sufficient to pay such principal, premium, or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Holders of such Securities or otherwise disposed of as herein provided, and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Section 10.03.
Money or Security Payments to Be Held in Trust
.
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Securities of such series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal, premium, or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities entitled to the same and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
The Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee for any series of Securities to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will
(a) hold all sums held by it for the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on Securities of such series in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Holders of such Securities or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
 
(b) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series) in the making of any such payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Securities of such series; and
(c) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
The Company may, at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent in respect of each and every series of Securities as to which it seeks to discharge this Indenture or, if for any other purpose, all sums so held in trust by the Company in respect of all Securities, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
.
Section 10.04.
Compliance Certificate; Notice of Default
(a) The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning in 2010), an Officers' Certificate, one of whose signatories shall be the Company's principal executive, accounting or financial officer, stating that in the course of the performance by the signers of their duties as officers of the Company they would normally have knowledge of any default by the Company in the performance of any of its covenants, conditions or agreements contained herein (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder), stating whether or not they have knowledge of any such default and, if so, specifying each such default of which the signers have knowledge and the nature thereof.
(b) The Company shall, so long as any of the Securities of any series are outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after becoming aware of any Event of Default with respect to such series under this Indenture, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposing to take with respect thereto. The Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of an Event of Default unless one of its Responsible Officers receives notice of the Event of Default from the Company or any of the Holders.
Subject to ARTICLE 8, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence in accordance with its organizational documents and its rights (charter and statutory) and corporate franchises; , , that the Company shall not be required to preserve any right or franchise, if (a) the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and (b) the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
Section 10.05.
Corporate Existence
.
provided
however
 
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of such series, the Company may, with respect to the Securities of any series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in any covenant provided herein or pursuant to clauses (26) or (27) of Section 3.01, Section 9.01(b) or Section 9.01(i) for the benefit of the Holders of such series if before or after the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of such series shall, by Act of such Securityholders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition; that no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10.06.
Waiver of Certain Covenants
.
provided
The Company may reserve the right to redeem and pay before the Scheduled Maturity Date all or any part of the Securities of any series, either by optional redemption, sinking or purchase fund or analogous obligation or otherwise, by provision therefor in the form of Security for such series established and approved pursuant to Section 2.02 and Section 2.03 or as otherwise provided in Section 3.01, and on such terms as are specified in such form or in the indenture supplemental hereto with respect to Securities of such series as provided in Section 3.01. Redemption of Securities of any series shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and, to the extent that this Article does not conflict with such terms, the succeeding Sections of this Article.
Section 11.01.
Applicability of Article
.
In case of any redemption at the election of the Company, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities (a) prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, or (b) pursuant to an election of the Company which is subject to a condition specified in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction or condition.
Section 11.02.
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
.
If fewer than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate, which may include provision for the selection for redemption of portions of the principal of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series. Unless otherwise provided in the terms of a particular series of Securities, the portions of the principal of Securities so selected for partial redemption shall be equal to the minimum authorized denomination of the Securities of such series, or an integral multiple thereof, and the principal amount which remains outstanding shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of such series.
Section 11.03.
Selection by Trustee of Securities to be Redeemed
.
 
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Security selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not fewer than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his or her address appearing in the Security Register on the applicable Record Date.
Section 11.04.
Notice of Redemption
.
All notices of redemption shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date;
(2) the Redemption Price, or if not then ascertainable, the manner of calculation thereof;
(3) if fewer than all Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the respective principal amounts) of the Securities to be redeemed, from the Holder to whom the notice is given and that on and after the date fixed for redemption, upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities of the same series in the aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in accordance with Section 11.07;
(4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security, and that interest, if any, thereon shall cease to accrue from and after said date;
(5) the place where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price, which shall be the office or agency maintained by the Company in the Place of Payment pursuant to Section 10.02 hereof; and
(6) that the redemption is on account of a sinking or purchase fund, or other analogous obligation, if that be the case.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.
On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.03) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
Section 11.05.
Deposit of Redemption Price
.
 
Notice of Redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of such Securities for redemption in accordance with the notice, such Securities shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price. Any installment of interest due and payable on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities registered as such on the relevant Record Date according to the terms and the provisions of Section 3.07 above; unless, with respect to an Interest Payment Date that falls on a Redemption Date, such Securities provide that interest due on such date is to be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable.
Section 11.06.
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
.
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate borne by the Security, or as otherwise provided in such Security.
Any Security that is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at the office or agency maintained by the Company in the Place of Payment pursuant to Section 10.02 hereof with respect to that series (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge and at the expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities of the same series, tenor, terms and Scheduled Maturity Date, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holders in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Section 11.07.
Securities Redeemed in Part
.
Unless the form or terms of any series of Securities shall provide otherwise, in lieu of making all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to such series of Securities in cash, the Company may at its option (a) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities of such series theretofore acquired by the Company, or (b) receive credit for any Securities of such series (not previously so credited) acquired or redeemed by the Company (other than through operation of a mandatory sinking fund) and theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, and if it does so then (i) Securities so delivered or credited shall be credited at the applicable sinking fund Redemption Price with respect to Securities of such series, and (ii) on or before the 60th day next preceding each sinking fund Redemption Date with respect to such series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee (A) an Officers' Certificate specifying the portions of such sinking fund payment to be satisfied by payment of cash and by the delivery or credit of Securities of such series acquired or redeemed by the Company, and (B) such Securities, to the extent not previously surrendered. Such Officers' Certificate shall also state the basis for any such credit and that the Securities for which the Company elects to receive credit have not been previously so credited and were not acquired by the Company through operation of the mandatory sinking fund, if any, provided with respect to such Securities and shall also state that no Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series has occurred and is continuing. All Securities so delivered to the Trustee shall be canceled by the Trustee and no Securities shall be authenticated in lieu thereof.
Section 11.08.
Provisions with Respect to any Sinking Funds
.
 
If the sinking fund payment or payments (mandatory or optional) with respect to any series of Securities made in cash plus any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payments with respect to Securities of such series made in cash shall exceed $50,000 (or a lesser sum if the Company shall so request), unless otherwise provided by the terms of such series of Securities, that cash shall be applied by the Trustee on the sinking fund Redemption Date with respect to Securities of such series next following the date of such payment to the redemption of Securities of such series at the applicable sinking fund Redemption Price with respect to Securities of such series, together with accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption, with the effect provided in Section 11.06. The Trustee shall select, in the manner provided in Section 11.03, for redemption on such sinking fund Redemption Date a sufficient principal amount of Securities of such series to utilize that cash and shall thereupon cause notice of redemption of the Securities of such series for the sinking fund to be given in the manner provided in Section 11.04 (and with the effect provided in Section 11.06) for the redemption of Securities in part at the option of the Company. Any sinking fund moneys not so applied or allocated by the Trustee to the redemption of Securities of such series shall be added to the next cash sinking fund payment with respect to Securities of such series received by the Trustee and, together with such payment, shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.08. Any and all sinking fund moneys with respect to Securities of any series held by the Trustee at the Maturity of Securities of such series, and not held for the payment or redemption of particular Securities of such series, shall be applied by the Trustee, together with other moneys, if necessary, to be deposited sufficient for the purpose, to the payment of the principal of the Securities of such series at Maturity.
On or before each sinking fund Redemption Date provided with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall pay to the Trustee in cash a sum equal to all accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption on Securities to be redeemed on such sinking fund Redemption Date pursuant to this Section 11.08.
The Trustee shall not redeem any Securities with sinking fund moneys or give any notice of redemption of Securities by operation of the applicable sinking fund during the continuance of a default in payment of interest on Securities of such series or of any Event of Default with respect to such series, except that if the notice of redemption of any Securities shall theretofore have been mailed in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Trustee shall redeem such Securities if cash sufficient for that purpose shall be deposited with the Trustee for that purpose in accordance with the terms of this ARTICLE 11. Except as aforesaid, any moneys in the sinking fund with respect to Securities of any series at the time when any such default or Event of Default with respect to such series shall occur, and any moneys thereafter paid into such sinking fund shall, during the continuance of such default or Event of Default with respect to such series, be held as security for the payment of all Securities of such series; , that in case such default or Event of Default with respect to such series shall have been cured or waived as provided herein, such moneys shall thereafter be applied on the next sinking fund payment date on which such moneys may be applied pursuant to the provisions of this Section 11.08.
provided, however
 
Repayment of Securities of any series before their Scheduled Maturity Date at the option of Holders thereof shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Section 12.01.
Applicability of Article
.
Securities of any series subject to repayment in whole or in part at the option of the Holders thereof will, unless otherwise provided in the terms of such Securities, be repaid at a price equal to the principal amount thereof, together with interest thereon accrued to the Repayment Date specified in the terms of such Securities. On or before the Repayment Date, the Company will deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.03) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Repayment Price of all the Securities which are to be repaid on such date.
Section 12.02.
Repayment of Securities
.
Securities of any series subject to repayment at the option of the Holders thereof will contain an "" form on the reverse of such Securities. To be repaid at the option of the Holder, any Security so providing for such repayment, with the "" form on the reverse of such Security duly completed by the Holder, must be received by the Company at the Place of Payment therefor specified in the terms of such Security (or at such other place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holders of such Securities) not earlier than 30 days nor later than 15 days prior to the Repayment Date. If less than the entire principal amount of such Security is to be repaid in accordance with the terms of such Security, the principal amount of such Security to be repaid, in increments of $1,000 unless otherwise specified in the terms of such Security, and the denomination or denominations of the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder for the portion of the principal amount of such Security surrendered that is not to be repaid must be specified. The principal amount of any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof may not be repaid in part, if, following such repayment, the unpaid principal amount of such Security would be less than the minimum authorized denomination of Securities of the series of which such Security to be repaid is a part. Except as otherwise may be provided by the terms of any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof, exercise of the repayment option by the Holder shall be irrevocable unless waived by the Company.
Section 12.03.
Exercise of Option
.
Option to Elect Repayment
Option to Elect Repayment
If Securities of any series providing for repayment at the option of the Holders thereof shall have been surrendered as provided in this Article and as provided by the terms of such Securities, such Securities or the portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid shall become due and payable and shall be paid by the Company on the Repayment Date therein specified, and on and after such Repayment Date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Securities on such Repayment Date) interest on such Securities or the portions thereof, as the case may be, shall cease to accrue.
Section 12.04.
When Securities Presented for Repayment Become Due and Payable
.
 
Upon surrender of any Security which is to be repaid in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge and at the expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities of the same series, tenor, terms and Scheduled Maturity Date, of any authorized denomination specified by the Holder, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the portion of the principal of such Security so surrendered which is not to be repaid.
Section 12.05.
Securities Repaid in Part
.
. The Company covenants and agrees, and each Holder of a Subordinated Security, by his acceptance thereof, likewise covenants and agrees, that, to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth in this Article, the indebtedness and the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each and all of the Subordinated Securities issued hereunder are hereby expressly made subordinate and subject in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company.
Section 13.01.
Agreement to Subordinate to Senior Indebtedness
. In the event of (a) any insolvency or bankruptcy case or proceeding, or any receivership, liquidation, reorganization or other similar case or proceeding in connection therewith, relative to the Company, to its creditors, or to its assets, or (b) any liquidation, dissolution or other winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary and whether or not involving insolvency or bankruptcy, or (c) any assignment for the benefit of creditors or any other marshalling of assets and liabilities of the Company, then and in any such event the holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled to receive payment in full of all amounts due or to become due on or in respect of all Senior Indebtedness, or provision shall be made for such payment in money or money's worth, before the Holders of the Subordinated Securities or the Trustee on their behalf shall be entitled to receive any payment on account of principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities, and to that end the holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled to receive, for application to the payment thereof, any payment or distribution of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, which may be payable or deliverable in respect of the Subordinated Securities in any such case, proceeding, dissolution, liquidation or other winding up or event.
Section 13.02.
Payment Over of Proceeds Upon Dissolution, Etc
In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Holder of any Subordinated Security or the Trustee on their behalf shall have received any payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, before all Senior Indebtedness is paid in full or payment thereof provided for, and if such fact shall, at or prior to the time of such payment or distribution, have been made known to the Trustee or, as the case may be, such Holder, then and in such event such payment or distribution shall be paid over or delivered forthwith to the trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, liquidating trustee, custodian, assignee, agent or other Person making payment or distribution of assets of the Company for application to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness remaining unpaid, to the extent necessary to pay all Senior Indebtedness in full, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the holders of Senior Indebtedness.
 
For purposes of this Article only, the words "cash, property or securities" shall not be deemed to include shares of stock of the Company as reorganized or readjusted, or securities of the Company or any other corporation provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment which are subordinated in right of payment to all Senior Indebtedness which may at the time be outstanding to substantially the same extent as, or to a greater extent than, the Subordinated Securities are so subordinated as provided in this Article. The consolidation of the Company with, or the merger of the Company into, another Person or the liquidation or dissolution of the Company following the conveyance or transfer of its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to another Person upon the terms and conditions set forth in ARTICLE 8 shall not be deemed a dissolution, winding up, liquidation, reorganization, assignment for the benefit of creditors or marshalling of assets and liabilities of the Company for the purposes of this Section if the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or which acquires by conveyance or transfer such properties and assets substantially as an entirety, as the case may be, shall, as a part of such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer, comply with the conditions set forth in ARTICLE 8.
. In the event that any Subordinated Securities are declared due and payable upon an Event of Default pursuant to Section 5.02 (and such declaration shall not have been rescinded or annulled pursuant to this Indenture); then, unless and until such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived or shall have ceased to exist, or such declaration shall have been waived, rescinded or annulled, no payment shall be made by the Company on account of the principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities or on account of the purchase or other acquisition of Subordinated Securities; , r, that nothing in this Section shall prevent the satisfaction of any sinking fund payment in accordance with ARTICLE 11 by delivering and crediting pursuant to Section 11.08 Subordinated Securities which have been acquired (upon redemption or otherwise) prior to such default.
Section 13.03.
Prior Payment to Senior Indebtedness Upon Acceleration of Subordinated Securities
provided
howeve
In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall make any payment to the Trustee or the Holder of any Subordinated Security prohibited by the foregoing provisions of this Section, and if such fact shall, at or prior to the time of such payment, have been made known to the Trustee or, as the case may be, such Holder, then and in such event such payment shall be paid over and delivered forthwith to the Company.
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any payment with respect to which Section 13.02 would be applicable.
. (a) In the event and during the continuation of any default in the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on or any other monetary amounts due and payable on any Senior Indebtedness beyond any applicable grace period with respect thereto, or in the event that any default with respect to any Senior Indebtedness shall have occurred and be continuing which permits the Holder or Holders thereof to accelerate the maturity of such Senior Indebtedness following notice, the lapse of time, or both, then unless and until such default shall have been cured or waived or shall have ceased to exist or shall have been rescinded or annulled, or (b) in the event any judicial proceeding shall be pending with respect to any such default in payment or default, then no payment shall be made by the Company on account of principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities or on account of the purchase or other acquisition of Subordinated Securities; , , that nothing in this Section shall prevent the satisfaction of any sinking fund payment in accordance with ARTICLE 11 by delivering and crediting pursuant to Section 11.028 Subordinated Securities which have been acquired (upon redemption or otherwise) prior to such default.
Section 13.04.
No Payment When Senior Indebtedness in Default
provided
however
 
In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall make any payment to the Trustee or the Holder of any Subordinated Security prohibited by the foregoing provisions of this Section, and if such fact shall, at or prior to the time of such payment, have been made known to the Trustee or, as the case may be, such Holder, then and in such event such payment shall be paid over and delivered forthwith to the Company.
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any payment with respect to which Section 13.02 would be applicable.
. Nothing contained in this Article or elsewhere in this Indenture or in any of the Subordinated Securities shall prevent (a) the Company, at any time except during the pendency of any case, proceeding, dissolution, liquidation or other winding up, assignment for the benefit of creditors or other marshaling of assets and liabilities of the Company referred to in Section 13.02 or under the conditions described in Section 13.03 or Section 13.04, from making payments at any time of principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Subordinated Securities, or (b) the application by the Trustee or Paying Agent of any monies deposited with it under this Indenture to the payment of or on account of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Subordinated Securities to the Holders entitled thereto if such payment would not have been prohibited by the provisions of Section 13.02, Section 13.03 or Section 13.04 on the day such moneys were so deposited.
Section 13.05.
Payment Prior to Dissolution of
Default
. Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, the Holders of the Subordinated Securities shall be subrogated (equally and ratably with the holders of all indebtedness of the Company) to the rights of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness to receive payments and distributions of cash, property and securities applicable to the Senior Indebtedness until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities shall be paid in full. For purposes of such subrogation, no payments or distributions to the holders of the Senior Indebtedness of any cash, property or securities to which the Holders of the Subordinated Securities or the Trustee on their behalf would be entitled except for the provisions of this Article, and no other payments pursuant to the provisions of this Article to the holders of Senior Indebtedness by Holders of Subordinated Securities or the Trustee on their behalf, shall, as among the Company, its creditors other than holders of Senior Indebtedness and the Holders of Subordinated Securities, be deemed to be a payment or distribution by the Company to or on account of the Senior Indebtedness.
Section 13.06.
Subrogation to Rights of Holders of Senior Indebtedness
 
. The provisions of this Article are and are intended solely for the purpose of defining the relative rights of the Holders of the Subordinated Securities on the one hand and the holders of Senior Indebtedness on the other hand. Nothing contained in this Article or elsewhere in this Indenture or in the Subordinated Securities is intended to or shall (a) impair, as among the Company, its creditors other than holders of Senior Indebtedness and the Holders of the Subordinated Securities, the obligations of the Company, which are absolute and unconditional (and which, subject to the rights under this Article of the holders of Senior Indebtedness, are intended to rank equally with all other general obligations of the Company), to pay to the Holders of the Subordinated Securities the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms; or (b) affect the relative rights against the Company of the Holders of the Subordinated Securities and creditors of the Company other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness; or (c) prevent the Holder of any Subordinated Security or the Trustee from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under this Indenture, subject to the rights, if any, under this Article of the holders of Senior Indebtedness to receive cash, property and securities otherwise payable or deliverable to such Holder or the Trustee on their behalf.
Section 13.07.
Provisions Solely to Define Relative Rights
. Each Holder of a Subordinated Security by his acceptance thereof authorizes and directs the Trustee on his behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination provided in this Article and appoints the Trustee his attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes.
Section 13.08.
Trustee to Effectuate Subordination
. No right of any present or future holder of any Senior Indebtedness to enforce subordination as herein provided shall at any time in any way be prejudiced or impaired by any act or failure to act on the part of the Company or by any non-compliance by the Company with the terms, provisions and covenants of this Indenture, regardless of any knowledge thereof any such holder may have or be otherwise charged with.
Section 13.09.
No Waiver of Subordination Provisions
Without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing paragraph, the holders of Senior Indebtedness may, at any time and from time to time, without the consent of or notice to the Trustee or the Holders of the Subordinated Securities, without incurring responsibility to the Holders of the Subordinated Securities and without impairing or releasing the subordination provided in this Article or the obligations hereunder of the Holders of the Subordinated Securities to the holders of Senior Indebtedness, do any one or more of the following: (a) change the manner, place or terms of payment or extend the time of payment of, or renew or alter, Senior Indebtedness, or otherwise amend or supplement in any manner Senior Indebtedness or any instrument evidencing the same or any agreement under which Senior Indebtedness is outstanding; (b) sell, exchange, release or otherwise deal with any property pledged, mortgaged or otherwise securing Senior Indebtedness; (c) release any Person liable in any manner for the collection of Senior Indebtedness; and (d) exercise or refrain from exercising any rights against the Company and any other Person.
 
. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any fact known to the Company which would prohibit the making of any payment to or by the Trustee in respect of the Subordinated Securities. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article or any other provision of this Indenture, the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of the existence of any facts which would prohibit the making of any payment to or by the Trustee in respect of the Subordinated Securities, unless and until the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof from the Company, a holder of Senior Indebtedness or from any trustee therefor; and, prior to the receipt of any such written notice, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 6.01, shall be entitled in all respects to assume that no such facts exist; , , that if the Trustee shall not have received the notice provided for in this Section at least three New York Business Days prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any money may become payable for any purpose (including, without limitation, the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Subordinated Security), then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall have full power and authority to receive such money and to apply the same to the purpose for which such money was received and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary which may be received by it within three New York Business Days prior to such date.
Section 13.10.
Notice to Trustee
provided
however
Subject to the provisions of Section 6.01, the Trustee shall be entitled to rely on the delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing himself to be a holder of Senior Indebtedness (or a trustee therefor) to establish that such notice has been given by a holder of Senior Indebtedness (or a trustee therefor). In the event that the Trustee determines in good faith that further evidence is required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of Senior Indebtedness to participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to this Article, the Trustee may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee as to the amount of Senior Indebtedness held by such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under this Article, and if such evidence is not furnished, the Trustee may defer any payment to such Person pending judicial determination as to the right of such Person to receive such payment.
. Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 6.01, and the Holders of the Subordinated Securities shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree entered by any court of competent jurisdiction in which such insolvency, bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution, winding up or similar case or proceeding is pending, or a certificate of the trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, liquidating trustee, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors, agent or other Person making such payment or distribution, delivered to the Trustee or to the Holders of Subordinated Securities, for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such payment or distribution, the holders of the Senior Indebtedness, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article.
Section 13.11.
Reliance on Judicial Order or Certificate of Liquidating Agent
. The Trustee shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of Senior Indebtedness and shall not be liable to any such holders if it shall in good faith mistakenly pay over or distribute to Holders of Subordinated Securities or to the Company or to any other Person cash, property or securities to which any holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by virtue of this Article or otherwise.
Section 13.12.
Trustee Not Fiduciary for Holders of Senior Indebtedness
 
. The Trustee in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the rights set forth in this Article with respect to any Senior Indebtedness which may at any time be held by it, to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Indebtedness, and nothing in this Indenture shall deprive the Trustee of any of its rights as such holder. Nothing in this Article shall apply to claims of, or payments to, the Trustee under or pursuant to Section 6.07.
Section 13.13.
Rights of Trustee as Holder of Senior Indebtedness; Preservation of Trustee's Rights
. In case at any time any Paying Agent other than the Trustee shall have been appointed by the Company and be then acting hereunder, the term "Trustee" as used in this Article shall in such case (unless the context otherwise requires) be construed as extending to and including such Paying Agent within its meaning as fully for all intents and purposes as if such Paying Agent were named in this Article in addition to or in place of the Trustee.
Section 13.14.
Article Applicable to Paying Agents
. For the purposes of this Article only, (1) the issuance and delivery of junior securities upon conversion of Subordinated Securities in accordance with the conversion provisions thereof, if any, shall not be deemed to constitute a payment or distribution on account of the principal of or premium or interest on Subordinated Securities or on account of the purchase or other acquisition of Subordinated Securities, and (2) the payment, issuance or delivery of cash, property or securities (other than junior securities) upon conversion of a Subordinated Security shall be deemed to constitute payment on account of the principal of such Subordinated Security. For the purposes of this Section, the term "junior securities" means (a) shares of any stock of any class of the Company and (b) securities of the Company which are subordinated in right of payment to all Senior Indebtedness which may be outstanding at the time of issuance or delivery of such securities to substantially the same extent as, or to a greater extent than, the Subordinated Securities are so subordinated as provided in this Article.
Section 13.15.
Certain Conversions Deemed Payment
. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, payments from moneys or the proceeds of U.S. Government Obligations or Equivalent Government Securities held in trust under ARTICLE 4 by the Trustee for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities from the date of deposit (if made in compliance with this Indenture) shall not be subordinated to the prior payment of any Senior Indebtedness or subject to the restraints set forth in this Article, and none of the Holders of Subordinated Securities shall be obligated to pay over any such amount to the Company or any holder of Senior Indebtedness of the Company or any other creditor of the Company.
Section 13.16.
Trust Moneys Not Subordinated
. The failure to make a payment on account of principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities by reason of any provision of this ARTICLE 13 shall not be construed as preventing the occurrence of an Event of Default under Section 5.01 or an event which with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default or in any way prevent the Holders of Subordinated Securities from exercising any right hereunder other than the right to receive payment on the Subordinated Securities.
Section 13.17.
Article 13 Not To Prevent Events Of Default
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested; all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
(this ""), by and among AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the ""), the Guarantors (as hereinafter defined) and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (hereinafter called the ""), is made and entered into as of this 19th day of November, 2009.
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
The Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture, dated as of November 19, 2009 (as such indenture may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof, the ""), providing for the issuance of the Company's unsecured debentures, notes, bonds, and other evidences of indebtedness, to be issued in one or more fully registered series (the "").
Base Indenture
Securities
Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities under the Base Indenture to be known as its "4.875% Senior Notes due 2019" (the ""), the form and substance and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture.
2019 Notes
The Guarantors desire to guarantee the Company's payment obligations under the 2019 Notes in the manner set forth herein (each a "").
2019 Note Guarantee
The Company and the Guarantors have requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture, which is being entered into pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture.
All conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto and the execution and delivery thereof have been in all respects duly authorized by the parties hereto.
This Supplemental Indenture shall modify the Base Indenture only with respect to the 2019 Notes and the related 2019 Note Guarantees.
 
To set forth or to provide for the establishment of the terms and conditions upon which the 2019 Notes are and are to be authenticated, issued, and delivered, and in consideration of the premises thereof, and the purchase of the 2019 Notes by the Holders thereof, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree as follows, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders from time to time of the 2019 Notes:
For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto, except as expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
Section 1.01.
Definitions.
(a) the capitalized terms used in this Supplemental Indenture and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Base Indenture;
(b) all other terms used in this Supplemental Indenture which are not defined in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Base Indenture and that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(c) all accounting terms not otherwise defined in this Supplemental Indenture have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP (as hereinafter defined);
(d) all references in this Supplemental Indenture to designated "", "" and other subdivisions are to the designated Articles, Sections and other subdivisions of this instrument as originally executed, unless the context indicates otherwise. The words "herein", "hereof", and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section, or other subdivision;
Articles
Sections
(e) "or" has the inclusive meaning attributable to the phrase "and/or";
(f) "including" has the inclusive meaning attributable to the phrase "but not limited to";
(g) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
(h) provisions apply to successive events and transactions;
(i) references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act will be deemed to include substitute, replacement or successor sections or rules adopted by the Commission from time to time; and
(j) "will" shall be interpreted as an express command.
"" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble of this Supplemental Indenture.
2019 Note Guarantee
"" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Supplemental Indenture. The Initial 2019 Notes and the Additional 2019 Notes shall be treated as a single class for purposes of certain matters specified in this Supplemental Indenture.
2019 Notes
"" means any Securities (other than the Initial 2019 Notes) issued under this Supplemental Indenture in accordance with Section 2.08 hereof, as part of the same series as the Initial 2019 Notes.
Additional 2019 Notes
 
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date (or, in the case of either defeasance or covenant defeasance to a Redemption Date, for the applicable date of deposit with the Trustee of funds to pay the Redemption Price), plus 25 basis points.
Adjusted Treasury Rate
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; that beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the Voting Stock of a Person will be deemed to be control. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" have correlative meanings. No Person (other than the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company) in whom a Receivables Subsidiary makes an Investment in connection with a Qualified Receivables Transaction will be deemed to be an Affiliate of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries solely by reason of such Investment.
Affiliate
provided
"" means the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of any assets or rights, other than sales or returns of inventory in the ordinary course of business (that the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole shall be governed by the provisions of Section 6.01 hereof).
Asset Sale
provided
"" in respect of a sale and leaseback transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such sale and leaseback transaction including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended. Such present value shall be calculated using a discount rate equal to the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Supplemental Indenture.
Base Indenture
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), such "person" will be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such "person" has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition. The terms "Beneficially Owns" and "Beneficially Owned" have a corresponding meaning.
Beneficial Owner
"" means J.M. Blanco, Inc.
Blanco
 
"" means (i) with respect to a corporation, the Board of Directors of the corporation or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors, (ii) with respect to a partnership, the Board of Directors of the general partner of the partnership; and (iii) with respect to any other Person, the board or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
Board of Directors
"" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of any Person to have been duly adopted by any Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee thereof and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
"" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in the Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law to close.
Business Day
"" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at such time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligation
"" means
Capital Stock
(i) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock,
(ii) in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock,
(iii) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests (whether general or limited), and
(iv) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person, other than earnouts.
"" means the Chairman of any Person's Board of Directors.
Chairman
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries;
(b) the consummation of any transaction (including without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
 
(c) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(d) the first day on which the majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company cease to be Continuing Directors; or
(e) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.04 hereof.
Change of Control Offer
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.04 hereof.
Change of Control Payment
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.04 hereof.
Change of Control Payment Date
"" means the 2019 Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by at least two of the three Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "Trigger Period") commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change). Unless at least two of the three Rating Agencies are providing a rating for the 2019 Notes at the commencement of any Trigger Period, the 2019 Notes will be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade by at least two of the three Rating Agencies during that Trigger Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2019 Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2019 Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date, as set forth in the daily statistical release (or any successor release) published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and designated "Composite 3:30 p.m. Quotations for U.S. Government Securities" or (ii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published or does not contain such prices on such Business Day, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations or (B) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period :
Consolidated Cash Flow
plus
(a) an amount equal to any extraordinary loss plus any net loss realized by such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with an Asset Sale, to the extent such losses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
(b) provision for taxes based on income or profits of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, to the extent that such provision for taxes was deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
(c) consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued and whether or not capitalized (including, without limitation, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, imputed interest with respect to Attributable Indebtedness, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings, and net of the effect of all payments made or received pursuant to Hedging Obligations), to the extent that any such expense was deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
(d) depreciation, amortization (including amortization of goodwill and other intangibles but excluding amortization of prepaid cash expenses that were paid in a prior period) and other non-cash expenses (excluding any such non-cash expense to the extent that it represents an accrual of or reserve for cash expenses in any future period or amortization of a prepaid cash expense that was paid in a prior period) of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period to the extent that such depreciation, amortization and other non-cash expenses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
(e) all nonrecurring and unusual charges (including, without limitation, restructuring, shutdown, severance and facility consolidation costs) taken by the Company related to the business transformation project to implement an enterprise resource planning system;
minus
(f) non-cash items increasing such Consolidated Net Income for such period, other than the accrual of revenue in the ordinary course of business,
in each case, on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP; that:
Consolidated Net Income
provided
(a) the Net Income or loss of any Person that is not a Subsidiary or that is accounted for by the equity method of accounting will be included only to the extent of the amount of dividends or distributions paid in cash to the specified Person or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Person;
(b) the Net Income of any Restricted Subsidiary will be excluded to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by that Restricted Subsidiary of that Net Income is not at the date of determination permitted without any prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained) or, directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or other governing instrument or any judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to that Restricted Subsidiary or its stockholders;
(c) the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles will be excluded;
(d) to the extent deducted in the calculation of Net Income, any non-recurring charges associated with any premium or penalty paid, write-offs of deferred financing costs or other financial recapitalization charges in connection with redeeming or retiring any indebtedness prior to its Stated Maturity will be added back to arrive at Consolidated Net Income; and
(e) the Net Income (but not loss) of any Unrestricted Subsidiary will be excluded (except to the extent distributed to the Company or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries).
"" means, with respect to any Person, the total of the amounts shown on such Person's and its consolidated Subsidiaries' balance sheet, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter for which internal financial statements are available prior to the taking of any action for purpose of which the determination is being made, as the sum of (i) the par or stated value of all such Person's Capital Stock, plus (ii) paid-in-capital or capital surplus relating to such Capital Stock, plus (iii) any retained earnings or earned surplus, minus (iv) any accumulated deficit, minus (v) any amounts attributable to Disqualified Stock.
Consolidated Net Worth
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (i) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of this Supplemental Indenture or (ii) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board at the time of such nomination or election.
Continuing Directors
"" means the Credit Agreement dated as of November 14, 2006, among the Company, the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., as administrative agent, J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, as London agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Canadian agent and the other financial institutions party thereto.
Credit Agreement
 
"" means, one or more debt facilities, commercial paper facilities, or capital markets financings, in each case with banks, investment banks, other institutional lenders or investors or trustees providing for revolving credit loans, term loans, receivables financing (including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from such lenders against such receivables), letters of credit, or capital markets financings, in each case, as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time.
Credit Facilities
"" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
"" means, with respect to the 2019 Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.05 hereof as the Depositary with respect to the 2019 Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture.
Depositary
"" means those certain Domestic Subsidiaries that have been designated by the Company in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee as being Designated Non-Guarantors; that (i) in no event may the Designated Non-Guarantors taken as a whole hold more than 7.5% of the consolidated assets, or account for more than 5% of the consolidated revenues or Consolidated Cash Flow, of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, calculated at the end of each fiscal quarter in accordance with GAAP on a trailing four-quarter basis and (ii) in no event may any Restricted Subsidiary be designated as a Designated Non-Guarantor at a time when a default has occurred and is continuing under any indenture or Credit Facility of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries. In the event that following any fiscal quarter end, the Restricted Subsidiaries that have been previously designated as Designated Non-Guarantors, when taken as a whole, account for more than 5% of such consolidated assets of such fiscal quarter end or more than 7.5% of such consolidated revenues or Consolidated Cash Flow during such fiscal quarter, calculated in accordance with GAAP on a trailing four-quarter basis, then the Company will cause any one or more of such Restricted Subsidiaries to become Guarantors within 45 days of such fiscal quarter end so that the Designated Non-Guarantors will not, when taken as a whole, account for more than the applicable percentage of any such measures. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Blanco and all Receivables Subsidiaries will be permitted to be Designated Non-Guarantors, and their assets, revenues and Consolidated Cash Flow will be disregarded for purposes of the financial tests required by this definition.
Designated Non-Guarantors
provided
"" means, on any date, any Capital Stock that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable, in each case at the option of the holder of the Capital Stock), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is 91 days after the latest date on which the 2019 Notes mature. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any Capital Stock that would constitute Disqualified Stock solely because the holders of the Capital Stock have the right to require the Company to repurchase such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of a change of control will not constitute Disqualified Stock if the terms of such repurchase rights are not more favorable to the holders of such Capital Stock than the covenant set forth in Section 5.04 hereof.
Disqualified Stock
 
"" means any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company that was formed under the laws of the United States or any state of the United States or the District of Columbia or that guarantees or otherwise provides direct credit support for any Indebtedness of the Company; that a Restricted Subsidiary with assets having an aggregate fair market value of less than $100,000 will not be deemed to be a Domestic Subsidiary unless and until it acquires assets having an aggregate fair market value in excess of that amount.
Domestic Subsidiary
provided
"" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock) and beneficial interests and trusts created by a Receivables Subsidiary.
Equity Interests
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01 hereof.
Event of Default
"" means Fitch Inc., a subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A., and its successors.
Fitch
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect from time to time.
GAAP
"" means a permanent global 2019 Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto that bears the global note legend set forth therein and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary.
Global 2019 Note
"" means a guarantee other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business, direct or indirect, in any manner including, without limitation, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof, of all or any part of any Indebtedness.
Guarantee
"" means each of (a) the guarantors listed on the signature pages hereto and (b) any other Subsidiary that executes a 2019 Note Guarantee in accordance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, and their respective successors and assigns; in the case of (a) and (b), other than such guarantors or Subsidiaries that are released pursuant to Sections 8.05 hereof.
Guarantor
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, the obligations of such Person under
Hedging Obligations
(i) interest rate swap agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements and
(ii) other agreements or arrangements designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency translation and commodity prices.
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent:
Indebtedness
(a) in respect of borrowed money;
(b) evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit (or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof);
(c) in respect of banker's acceptances;
(d) representing Capital Lease Obligations;
(e) representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property, except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense or trade payable; or
(f) representing any Hedging Obligations.
If and to the extent any of the preceding items (other than letters of credit) would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of the specified Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the term "Indebtedness" includes all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of the specified Person (whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by the specified Person) and, to the extent not otherwise included, the Guarantee by the specified Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person.
The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date will be:
(a) the accreted value of the Indebtedness, in the case of any Indebtedness issued with original issue discount; and
(b) the principal amount of the Indebtedness, together with any interest on the Indebtedness that is more than 30 days past due, in the case of any other Indebtedness.
Indebtedness shall not include the obligations of any Person resulting from post-closing payment adjustments to which the seller may become entitled in connection with the purchase by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of any business, to the extent such payment is determined by a final closing financial statement or such payment depends on the performance of such business after the closing; that at the time of closing, the amount of any such payment is not determinable and, to the extent such payment thereafter becomes fixed and determined, the amount is paid within 60 days thereafter.
provided
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means the first $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes issued under this Supplemental Indenture on the date hereof.
Initial 2019 Notes
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, all direct or indirect investment by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the form of loans (including Guarantees or other obligations), advances or capital contributions (excluding commissions, travel, moving and similar advances to officers and employees and loans and advances to customers and suppliers made in the ordinary course of business), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Investment
"" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P); and a rating of BBB- or better by Fitch (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Fitch).
Investment Grade
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any agreement to give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction; in each case, except in connection with any Qualified Receivables Transaction.
Lien
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, the net income (loss) of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of preferred stock dividends, excluding, however, (i) any gain (but not loss), together with any related provision for taxes on such gain (but not loss), realized in connection with (a) any Asset Sale or (b) the disposition of any securities by such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or the extinguishment of any Indebtedness of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and (ii) any extraordinary gain (but not loss), together with any related provision for taxes on such extraordinary gain (but not loss).
Net Income
"" means Indebtedness:
Non-Recourse Debt
(a) as to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (i) provides credit support of any kind (including any undertaking, agreement or instrument that would constitute Indebtedness), (ii) is directly or indirectly liable as a guarantor or otherwise or (iii) constitutes the lender;
(b) no default with respect to which (including any rights that the holders of the Indebtedness may have to take enforcement action against an Unrestricted Subsidiary) would permit upon notice, lapse of time or both any holder of any other Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to declare a default on such other Indebtedness or cause the payment of the Indebtedness to be accelerated or payable prior to its Stated Maturity; and
(c) as to which the lenders have been notified in writing that they will not have any recourse to the stock or assets of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(c) hereof.
Notice of Default
"" means any principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness.
Obligations
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, Controller, Secretary or any Vice President of such Person.
Officer
"" means a certificate signed by any two of any Person's Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Controller, Treasurer, and any Assistant Treasurer, or by any other officer or officers of such Person pursuant to an applicable Board Resolution, and delivered to the Trustee.
Officers' Certificate
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(f) hereof.
Payment Default
"" means any of the following:
Permitted Liens
(a) Liens securing Indebtedness under Credit Facilities or any Hedging Obligations related thereto, , that the foregoing Liens shall constitute Permitted Liens only to the extent that such Liens secure Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount outstanding not to exceed, at the time of determination, 15% of the Company's Consolidated Net Worth;
provided
(b) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged with or into or consolidated with or acquired by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; that such Liens were in existence prior to the contemplation of such merger or consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person merged into or consolidated with the Company or the Restricted Subsidiary;
provided
(c) Liens on property existing at the time of acquisition of the property by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, that such Liens were in existence prior to the contemplation of such acquisition;
provided
(d) Liens to secure the performance of statutory obligations, surety or appeal bonds, bid bonds, payment bonds, performance bonds or other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(e) Liens existing on the issue date of the 2019 Notes;
(f) Liens in favor of the Company or the Restricted Subsidiaries;
(g) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or claims that are not yet delinquent or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and diligently concluded, that any reserve or other appropriate provision as is required in conformity with GAAP has been made therefor;
provided
 
(h) Liens on assets of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (including Receivables Subsidiaries) incurred in connection with a Qualified Receivables Transaction;
(i) Liens on assets of Unrestricted Subsidiaries that secure Non-Recourse Debt of Unrestricted Subsidiaries;
(j) Liens to secure Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or another of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(k) Liens on any property or asset acquired by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in favor of the seller of such property or asset and construction mortgages on real property, in each case, created within twelve months after the date of acquisition, construction or improvement of such property or asset by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to secure the purchase price or other obligation of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to the seller of such property or asset or the construction or improvement cost of such property in an amount up to the total cost of the acquisition, construction or improvement of such property or asset; that in each case, such Lien does not extend to any other property or asset of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries;
provided
(l) Liens incurred or pledges and deposits made in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security benefits;
(m) Liens imposed by law, such as mechanics', carriers', warehousemen's, materialmen's, and vendors' Liens, incurred in good faith in the ordinary course of business with respect to amounts not yet delinquent or being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings if a reserve or other appropriate provisions, if any, as shall be required by GAAP shall have been made therefor;
(n) financing statements granted with respect to personal property leased by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to leases considered operating leases in accordance with GAAP, that such financing statements are granted solely in connection with such leases; and Liens to secure Capital Lease Obligations in an amount not to exceed the greater of (x) $125.0 million and (y) 3.0% of the Company's Consolidated Net Worth covering only the assets acquired with such Indebtedness;
provided
(o) judgment Liens to the extent that such judgments do not cause or constitute a Default or an Event of Default;
(p) Liens consisting of easements, rights-of-way, zoning restrictions, restrictions on the use of real property, and defects and irregularities in the title thereto, landlords' Liens and other similar Liens and encumbrances none of which interfere materially with the use of the property covered thereby in the ordinary course of the business of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary and which do not, in the opinion of the Company, materially detract from the value of such properties;
 
(q) Liens in favor of the United States of America or any state thereof, or any department or agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any state thereof or political entity affiliated therewith, or in favor of any other country, or any political subdivision thereof, to secure, progress, advance or other payments, or other obligations, pursuant to any contract or statute, or to secure any Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving the property subject to such Liens (including Liens incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financings);
(r) Liens securing Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refinance Indebtedness that was secured by a Lien permitted under this Supplemental Indenture; that any such Lien shall not extend to or cover any assets or property not securing the Indebtedness so refinanced and that such refinancing does not, directly or indirectly, result in an increase in the aggregate amount of secured Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (except to the extent as a result of the financing of accrued interest on the Indebtedness refinanced and the amount of all expenses and premiums incurred in connection with such refinancing);
provided
(s) any extension or renewal, or successive extensions or renewals, in whole or in part, of Liens permitted pursuant to the foregoing clauses (a) through (p) that no such extension or renewal Lien shall (A) secure more than the amount of Indebtedness or other obligations secured by the Lien being so extended or renewed or (B) extend to any property or assets not subject to the Lien being so extended or renewed; and
provided
(t) Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries with respect to obligations outstanding at any one time that do not exceed the greater of (i) $50.0 million and (ii) 1.0% of the Company's Consolidated Net Worth.
"" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund other Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than intercompany Indebtedness).
Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or other entity.
Person
"" means any transaction or series of transactions entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries sells, conveys or otherwise transfers to (i) a Receivables Subsidiary (in the case of a transfer by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) and (ii) any other Person (in the case of a transfer by a Receivables Subsidiary), or grants a security interest in, any accounts receivable (whether now existing or arising in the future) or inventory of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and any assets related thereto including, without limitation, all collateral securing such accounts receivable, all contracts and all guarantees or other obligations in respect of such accounts receivable or inventory, proceeds of such accounts receivable and other assets which are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving accounts receivable or inventory.
Qualified Receivables Transaction
 
"" means each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; , that if any of Moody's, S&P and Fitch ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, the Company may appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Rating Agency
provided
"" means a Subsidiary of the Company which engages in no activities other than in connection with the financing of accounts receivable or inventory and which is designated by the Board of Directors of the Company (as provided below) as a Receivables Subsidiary (a) no portion of the Indebtedness or any other Obligations (contingent or otherwise) of which (i) is guaranteed by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company (excluding guarantees of Obligations (other than the principal of, and interest on, Indebtedness) pursuant to representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into in the ordinary course of business in connection with a Qualified Receivables Transaction), (ii) is recourse to or obligates the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company in any way other than pursuant to representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into in the ordinary course of business in connection with a Qualified Receivables Transaction or (iii) subjects any property or asset of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company (other than accounts receivable or inventory and related assets as provided in the definition of "Qualified Receivables Transaction"), directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction thereof, other than pursuant to representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into in the ordinary course of business in connection with a Qualified Receivables Transaction, (b) with which neither the Company nor any Subsidiary of the Company has any material contract, agreement, arrangement or understanding other than on terms customary for securitization of receivables or inventory and (c) with which neither the Company nor any Subsidiary of the Company has any obligation to maintain or preserve such Subsidiary's financial condition or cause such Subsidiary to achieve certain levels of operating results. Any such designation by the Board of Directors of the Company will be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee a certified copy of the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the foregoing conditions.
Receivables Subsidiary
"" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and one other primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (each, a "Primary Treasury Dealer") appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company and its successors; , , that if Banc of America Securities LLC or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
however
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices of the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date (or, in the case of either legal defeasance or covenant defeasance prior to a Redemption Date, for the applicable date of deposit with the Trustee of funds to pay the Redemption Price).
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
"" means, with respect to any of the 2019 Notes to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; , , that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such 2019 Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided
however
"" of a Person means any Subsidiary of the referent Person that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, and any statute successor thereto.
Securities Act
"" means any Restricted Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of the Supplemental Indenture.
Significant Subsidiary
"" means (i) any Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement and any Indebtedness incurred under Credit Facilities that refinances such Indebtedness or (ii) any Trigger Indebtedness.
Specified Indebtedness
"" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the original documentation governing such Indebtedness, and will not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
Stated Maturity
"" means, with respect to any specified Person:
Subsidiary
(a) any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees of the corporation, association or other business entity is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by that Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person (or a combination thereof); and
(b) any partnership (i) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person or (ii) the only general partners of which are that Person or one or more Subsidiaries of that Person (or any combination thereof).
"" means this First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of the dated hereof, by and among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, governing the 2019 Notes, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the Base Indenture and the terms hereof.
Supplemental Indenture
 
"" means any Indebtedness other than (i) Capital Lease Obligations and (ii) Indebtedness (other than Capital Lease Obligations) in an aggregate principal amount for all Domestic Subsidiaries of the Company (other than Blanco and any Receivables Subsidiary) that are not Guarantors at any time outstanding not to exceed $25 million (the "Original Definition"), , , that for so long as the Domestic Subsidiaries of the Company (other than Blanco and any Receivables Subsidiary) that are not Guarantors have as a group in excess of $25 million in aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness (other than Capital Lease Obligations) outstanding, the term Trigger Indebtedness shall mean any Indebtedness; , that from and after any subsequent date that the Domestic Subsidiaries of the Company (other than Blanco and any Receivables Subsidiary) that are not Guarantors do not have as a group in excess of $25 million in aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness (other than Capital Lease Obligations) outstanding, the term Trigger Indebtedness shall mean the Original Definition.
Trigger Indebtedness
provided
however
provided further
"" means any Subsidiary of the Company that is designated by the Board of Directors of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary pursuant to a Board Resolution, but only to the extent that such Subsidiary:
Unrestricted Subsidiary
(a) has no Indebtedness other than Non-Recourse Debt;
(b) is not party to any agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding with the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company unless the terms of any such agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding are no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons who are not Affiliates of the Company;
(c) is a Person with respect to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any direct or indirect obligation (i) to subscribe for additional Equity Interests or (ii) to maintain or preserve such Person's financial condition or to cause such Person to achieve any specified levels of operating results;
(d) is not guaranteeing or otherwise providing credit support for any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; and
(e) has at least one director on its Board of Directors that is not a director or executive officer of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and has at least one executive officer that is not a director or executive officer of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
Any designation of a Subsidiary of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary will be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee a certified copy of the Board Resolution giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the preceding conditions. If, at any time, any Unrestricted Subsidiary would fail to meet the preceding requirements as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it will thereafter cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary for purposes of this Supplemental Indenture and any Indebtedness of such Subsidiary will be deemed to be incurred by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company as of such date. The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary; that such designation will be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation will only be permitted if (i) such Indebtedness is permitted under this Supplemental Indenture and (ii) no Event of Default would be in existence following such designation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Blanco and all Receivables Subsidiaries will be permitted to be Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
provided
"" of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote or readily convertible into Capital Stock of such Person that is entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
 
Any request, order, authorization, direction, consent, waiver, or other action to be taken by the Trustee, the Company, any Guarantor or the Holders hereunder (including any Authentication Order), and any notice to be given to the Trustee, the Company or any Guarantors with respect to any action taken or to be taken by the Trustee, the Company, any Guarantor or the Holders hereunder, shall be sufficient if made in writing and delivered electronically or mailed by registered first-class mail postage pre-paid, return receipt requested, to the following addresses:
Section 1.02.
Notices, etc., to Trustee and Company
.
If to the Trustee:
U.S. Bank National Association 50 South 16th Street, Suite 2000 Mail Station EX-PA-WBSP Philadelphia, PA 19102 Attention: George J. Rayzis Telephone No: (215) 761-9317 Facsimile No: (215) 761-9412
If to the Company and/or any Guarantor:
AmerisourceBergen Corporation 1300 Morris Drive Chesterbrook, PA 19087 Attention: Vice President and Treasurer Telephone No: (610) 727-7000 Facsimile No: (610) 727-3600
With a copy to:
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP 1701 Market Street Philadelphia, PA 19103 Attention: James W. McKenzie, Jr., Esq. Telephone No: (215) 963-5000 Facsimile No: (215) 963-5001
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Supplemental Indenture by any of the provisions of the TIA, such required provision shall control.
Section 1.03.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
.
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents hereof are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of any provision of this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 1.04.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
.
 
All covenants and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture by the Company or by the Guarantors shall bind their successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Section 1.05.
Successors and Assigns
.
In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 1.06.
Severability Clause
.
Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, their successors hereunder, the Authenticating Agent, the Security Registrar, any Paying Agent, and the Holders (or such of them as may be affected thereby), any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 1.07.
Benefits Of Indenture
.
This Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Section 1.08.
Governing Law
.
This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 1.09.
Counterparts
.
. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or the interest, if any, on the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees, or for any claim based thereon, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees against any incorporator, stockholder, member, partner, director, manager, officer or employee, as such, past, present or future, of the Company, any Guarantor or of any successor corporation to the Company or such Guarantor, either directly or indirectly through the Company, such Guarantor or any successor corporation to the Company or such Guarantor, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law or by the enforcement of any assessment of penalty or otherwise; it being expressly agreed and understood that this Supplemental Indenture and all of the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees are solely corporate obligations, and that no personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is incurred by, any incorporator, stockholder, member, partner, director, manager, officer or employee, past, present or future, of the Company or any Guarantor or of any successor corporation to the Company or such Guarantor, either directly or indirectly through the Company, such Guarantor or any successor corporation to the Company or such Guarantor, because of the incurring of any Indebtedness hereby authorized or under or by reason of any of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Supplemental Indenture or in any of the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees, or to be implied herefrom or therefrom; and that all such personal liability is hereby expressly released and waived as a condition of, and as part of the consideration for, the execution of this Supplemental Indenture and the issuance of the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees.
Section 1.10.
Immunity of Incorporators, Stockholders, Directors and Officers
 
. The Company shall qualify Base Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, under the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 1.11.
Qualification of Indenture
The terms and provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the Base Indenture and the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby; , that the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall apply solely with respect to the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees only and that, except as expressly supplemented hereby with respect to the 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees, the Base Indenture shall continue in full force and effect and is in all respects confirmed, ratified and preserved. To the extent any provision of the Base Indenture conflicts with the express provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture will govern and be controlling with respect to the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees.
Section 1.12.
Relationship with Base Indenture.
provided, however
By execution of this Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee accepts the modification of the Base Indenture effected hereby with respect to the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees only, and agrees to execute the trust created by the Base Indenture as supplemented hereby.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Supplemental Indenture or the Base Indenture to the contrary, this Supplemental Indenture shall not be deemed to amend or modify the Base Indenture with respect to any series of Securities that may be issued under the Base Indenture other than the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees.
There is hereby authorized the following new series of Securities:
Section 2.01.
Form of 2019 Note and Dating.
(a) The 2019 Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto. The 2019 Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage.
(b) The 2019 Notes shall be dated the date of their authentication.
Section 2.02.
Designation and Principal Terms.
(a) The 2019 Notes and related 2019 Note Guarantees are hereby authorized and designated as the "4.875% Senior Notes due 2019."
(b) The 2019 Notes shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000, shall bear interest at a rate of 4.875% per annum, shall have a Scheduled Maturity Date of November 15, 2019 and are subject to optional redemption, in whole or in part, at any time prior to the Scheduled Maturity Date pursuant to the terms set forth in Article 7 hereof. The 2019 Notes shall be denominated in U.S. dollars.
 
(c) The date from which interest shall accrue on the 2019 Notes, the Interest Payment Dates of the 2019 Notes, the Record Date with respect to each payment of interest on the 2019 Notes and all other terms of the 2019 Notes are set forth in the form of 2019 Note attached hereto as Exhibit A.
(d) The 2019 Notes shall be redeemable at the option of the Company as set forth in Article 7 hereof. Subject to Section 5.04 hereof, the 2019 Notes shall not be redeemable at the option of the Holders.
(e) The 2019 Notes shall not be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.
(f) The 2019 Notes shall be unsecured Senior Indebtedness of the Company and shall rank equally with all of the Company's other unsecured Senior Indebtedness outstanding from time to time.
(g) The terms and provisions contained in the 2019 Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Supplemental Indenture and the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of the 2019 Notes conflicts with the express provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
The 2019 Notes shall be issuable only in registered form, without interest coupons, in minimum denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000.
Section 2.03.
Denominations.
The 2019 Notes shall be issued in global form substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). Each Global 2019 Note shall represent such of the 2019 Notes then Outstanding as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes of the applicable series then Outstanding from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes of the applicable series then Outstanding represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global 2019 Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes of the applicable series then Outstanding represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 3.05 of the Base Indenture.
Section 2.04.
Global Form.
The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global 2019 Notes.
Section 2.05.
Depositary.
DTC
 
The 2019 Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any two of its Officers under its corporate seal reproduced thereon and attested by its Secretary or any one of its Assistant Secretaries. Pursuant to Section 8.03 hereof, each 2019 Note Guarantee shall be executed on behalf of the applicable Guarantor by its President or one of its Vice Presidents. The signature of any of these officers on the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees may be manual or facsimile. The seal of the Company may be in the form of a facsimile thereof and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted, or otherwise reproduced on the 2019 Notes. Typographical and other minor errors or defects in any such reproduction of the seal or any such signature shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the 2019 Notes that have been duly authenticated and delivered by the Trustee.
Section 2.06.
Execution, Authentication and Delivery, and Dating
.
Unless otherwise provided in the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees, all of the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees shall be dated the date of their authentication.
Any of the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company or any Guarantor shall bind the Company and such Guarantor, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees or did not hold such offices at the date of such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, the Company may deliver the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees to the Trustee for authentication, together with an Authentication Order with respect to such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees, and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of such Authentication Order, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee set forth in the Authentication Order, and subject to the provisions hereof and of the Base Indenture, authenticate and deliver such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees to such recipients as may be specified from time to time pursuant to such Authentication Order. The material terms of such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees shall be determinable by reference to such Authentication Order and procedures. If provided for in such procedures, such Authentication Order may authorize authentication and delivery of such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees pursuant to oral instructions from the Company, any Guarantor or any duly authorized agent of the Company or such Guarantor, which instructions shall be promptly confirmed in writing. In authenticating such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Supplemental Indenture in relation to such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 6.05 of the Base Indenture) shall be fully protected in relying upon:
(1) an Officers' Certificate, certifying as to the authorized forms and terms of the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees; and
(2) an Opinion of Counsel, stating that:
(a) the forms and terms of such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees have been established by and in conformity with the provisions of the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture; that if all such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees are not to be issued at the same time, such Opinion of Counsel may state that such terms will be established in conformity with the provisions of the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel; and
provided
 
(b) such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company and the Guarantors, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization, and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and to general principles of equity;
, that if all of the 2019 Notes and the 2019 Note Guarantees issuable by or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to this paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of such 2019 Notes or 2019 Note Guarantees if such documents are delivered at or prior to the time of authentication upon original issuance of such 2019 Notes or 2019 Note Guarantees to be issued. After the original issuance of such 2019 Notes or 2019 Note Guarantees to be issued, any separate request by the Company that the Trustee authenticate such 2019 Notes or 2019 Note Guarantees for original issuance will be deemed to be a certification by the Company that it is in compliance with all conditions precedent provided for in the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture relating to the authentication and delivery of such 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees.
provided, however
None of the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees shall be entitled to any benefit under the Base Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such 2019 Notes or 2019 Note Guarantees a certificate of authentication executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any of the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such 2019 Notes or 2019 Note Guarantees have been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
The Company in issuing the 2019 Notes may use Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures ("CUSIP") numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee will use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the 2019 Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the 2019 Notes, and any such redemption will not be affected by any defect in or the omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP numbers.
Section 2.07.
CUSIP Number.
provided
The Company will be entitled, upon delivery of an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to issue Additional 2019 Notes under this Supplemental Indenture which will have identical terms as the Initial 2019 Notes issued on the date hereof, other than with respect to the date of issuance and issue price. The Initial 2019 Notes issued on the date hereof and any Additional 2019 Notes issued will be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Supplemental Indenture. With respect to any Additional 2019 Notes, the Company will set forth in a Board Resolution and an Officer's Certificate, a copy of each which will be delivered to the Trustee, the following information:
Section 2.08.
Issuance of Additional 2019 Notes.
(a) the aggregate principal amount of such Additional 2019 Notes to be authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture; and
(b) the issue price, the issue date and the CUSIP number of such Additional 2019 Notes.
 
The definition of "Event of Default" set in the Base Indenture shall be inapplicable to the 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees. For all purposes under this Supplemental Indenture and with respect to the 2019 Notes and 2019 Note Guarantees, "" shall mean any one of the following events:
Section 3.01.
Events of Default
.
Event of Default
(a) default in the payment of any interest on the 2019 Notes when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(b) default in the payment of the principal amount of (or premium, if any, on) the 2019 Notes as and when the same shall become due, either at Stated Maturity, upon redemption, by declaration, or otherwise; or
(c) default, subject to the provisions of Section 10.06 of the Base Indenture, in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in the Base Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in the performance of which or the breach of which is elsewhere in this Section 3.01 specifically dealt with), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the 2019 Notes, a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" hereunder; or
Notice of Default
(d) the entry of an order for relief against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of its Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, under Bankruptcy Law by a court having jurisdiction in the premises or a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises adjudging the Company, the Significant Subsidiary or such group of Restricted Subsidiaries a bankrupt or insolvent under any other applicable Federal or State law, or the entry of a decree or order approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company, or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of its Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, under Bankruptcy Law or any other applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company, or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of its Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, or of any substantial part of their respective property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
 
(e) the consent by the Company, or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of its Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by them of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under Bankruptcy Law or any other applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by them to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company, the Significant Subsidiary or such group of Restricted Subsidiaries or of any substantial part of their respective property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by them in writing of their inability to pay their debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company, the Significant Subsidiary or such group of Restricted Subsidiaries in furtherance of any such action;
(f) failure by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to comply with Section 5.04, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the 2019 Notes of a Notice of Default;
(g) default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries), whether such Indebtedness or Guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Supplemental Indenture, which (i) is caused by the failure to pay principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a ""), and (ii) results in the actual acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity, and, in each case, the principal amount of such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $50.0 million or more;
Payment Default
(h) a final judgment or final judgments for the payment of money are entered by a court or courts of competent jurisdiction against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary and such judgment or judgments remain undischarged for a period (during which execution shall not be effectively stayed pending appeal (or otherwise stayed)) of 60 days, that the aggregate of all such undischarged judgments exceeds $50.0 million (net of any amount covered by insurance);
provided
(i) except as permitted by this Supplemental Indenture, any 2019 Note Guarantee is held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under such Guarantor's 2019 Note Guarantee.
All references to "51%" in Section 5.02 (Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission, and Amendment) and Section 5.07 (Limitation on Suits) of the Base Indenture shall be replaced with "25%" for purposes of the 2019 Notes.
Section 3.02.
Action by Holders.
 
Without the consent of the Holders of the 2019 Notes, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the TIA as in force at the date of execution thereof), in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
Section 4.01.
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Securityholders
.
(a) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company or any Guarantor, or successive successions, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company and such Guarantor pursuant to Article 6 and Section 8.04 hereof; or
(b) to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions or conditions for the protection of the Holders of the 2019 Notes as the Company and the Trustee shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders of the 2019 Notes or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
(c) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein or in any supplemental indenture hereto, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Supplemental Indenture that do not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the 2019 Notes in any material respect; or
(d) to add to this Supplemental Indenture such provisions as may be expressly permitted by the TIA, excluding, however, the provisions referred to in Section 316(a)(2) of the TIA as in effect at the date as of which this instrument is executed or any corresponding provision in any similar federal statute hereafter enacted; or
(e) to add guarantors or co-obligors with respect to the 2019 Notes; or
(f) to secure the 2019 Notes; or
(g) to add to the rights of the Holders of the 2019 Notes; or
(h) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by another corporation as a successor Trustee hereunder with respect to the 2019 Notes and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to Section 6.11 of the Base Indenture; or
(i) to add any additional Events of Default in respect of the 2019 Notes; or
(j) to comply with the requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of this Supplemental Indenture under the TIA;
 
(k) to conform the text of this Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees to any provision of the "Description of Notes" section of the Company's Prospectus Supplement dated November 16, 2009, relating to the initial offering of the 2019 Notes, to the extent that such provision in the "Description of Notes" was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of this Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Notes or the Guarantees; or
(l) to allow any Guarantor to execute a joinder to this Supplemental Indenture and/or a 2019 Note Guarantee with respect to the 2019 Notes.
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the 2019 Notes, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture or of any supplemental indenture hereto, of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the 2019 Notes under this Supplemental Indenture, or of modifying the terms of the 2019 Note Guarantees; , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each of the 2019 Notes then Outstanding affected thereby:
Section 4.02.
Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Securityholders
.
provided, however
(a) change the Scheduled Maturity Date or the stated payment date of any payment of premium or interest payable on any of the 2019 Notes, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or any amount of interest or premium payable thereon, or
(b) change the method of computing the amount of principal of any of the 2019 Notes or any interest payable thereon on any date, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any of the 2019 Notes or any payment of premium or interest thereon is payable, or
(c) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment described in clauses (a) or (b) on or after the same shall become due and payable, whether at Stated Maturity or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on or after the Redemption Date or the Change of Control Repayment Date, as the case may be; or
(d) change or waive the redemption or repayment provisions of the 2019 Notes;
(e) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the 2019 Notes then Outstanding, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Supplemental Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences, provided for in this Supplemental Indenture; or
(f) modify any of the provisions of this Section or Sections 5.13 or 10.06 of the Base Indenture, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each of the 2019 Notes then Outstanding affected thereby; , that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 10.06 of the Base Indenture, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 6.11 and 9.01(h) of the Base Indenture; or
provided, however
 
(g) adversely affect the ranking or priority of the 2019 Notes;
(h) release any Guarantor or co-obligor from any of its Obligations under its 2019 Note Guarantee or this Supplemental Indenture, except in compliance with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture; or
(i) waive any Event of Default pursuant to Section 3.01(a), Section 3.01(b) or Section 3.01(c) hereof with respect to the 2019 Notes.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Upon request of the Company and upon filing with the Trustee of evidence of an Act of Holders as aforementioned, the Trustee and the Guarantors shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, powers, trusts, duties or immunities under the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture. In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 4.03.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
.
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Supplemental Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Supplemental Indenture for all purposes; and the respective rights, limitation of rights, duties, powers, trusts and immunities under this Supplemental Indenture of the Trustee, the Company, the Guarantors and every Holder of the 2019 Notes theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be determined, exercised and enforced thereunder to the extent provided therein.
Section 4.04.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
.
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the TIA as then in effect.
Section 4.05.
Conformity With Trust Indenture Act
.
The 2019 Notes authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any modification of this Supplemental Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and the Guarantors and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for any of the 2019 Notes then Outstanding.
Section 4.06.
Reference in 2019 Notes to Supplemental Indentures
.
 
In addition to the covenants set froth in Article 10 of the Base Indenture, the following additional covenants shall apply with respect to the 2019 Notes.
The Company or any Guarantor, for the benefit of the 2019 Notes, will duly and punctually pay in U.S. Dollars the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the 2019 Notes in accordance with the terms of the 2019 Notes and this Supplemental Indenture. An installment of principal of, premium or interest on such 2019 Notes shall be considered paid on the date it is due if the Trustee or a Paying Agent for such 2019 Notes (other than the Company or an Affiliate of the Company) holds on that date immediately available funds designated for and sufficient to pay such installment.
Section 5.01.
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
.
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien of any kind securing Indebtedness on any asset now owned or hereafter acquired, except Permitted Liens, unless (a) in the case of the Company, the 2019 Notes are secured by such Lien equally and ratably with, or prior to, the Indebtedness secured by such Lien or (b) in the case of any Guarantor, such Guarantor's 2019 Note Guarantee is secured by such Lien equally and ratably with, or prior to, the Indebtedness secured by such Lien.
Section 5.02.
Liens.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Lien securing the 2019 Notes or the Note Guarantees pursuant to this covenant shall be automatically and unconditionally released and discharged upon the release by all holders of the Indebtedness secured by the Lien giving rise to the Lien securing the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees (including any deemed released upon payment in full of all obligations under such Indebtedness).
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any sale and leaseback transaction; that the Company or any Guarantor may enter into a sale and leaseback transaction if (i) the Company or such Guarantor, as applicable, could have incurred a Lien to secure such Indebtedness in an amount equal to Attributable Indebtedness relating to such sale and leaseback transaction pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.02 hereof and (ii) the gross cash proceeds of such sale and leaseback transaction are at least equal to the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company and set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee) of the property that is the subject of such sale and leaseback transaction.
Section 5.03.
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
provided
 
Section 5.04.
Offer to Repurchase Upon Change of Control.
(a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the 2019 Notes as described in Section 7.01 hereof within 60 days after the Change of Control Triggering Event, each Holder shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of such Holder's 2019 Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the ""), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the ""), subject to the rights of the Holders of the 2019 Notes on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date. Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of the 2019 Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and stating:
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
(i) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 5.04 and that all 2019 Notes tendered will be accepted for payment;
(ii) the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 Business Days and no later than 60 Business Days from the date such notice is mailed, other than as may be required by law (the "");
Change of Control Payment Date
(iii) that any 2019 Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
(iv) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all 2019 Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date;
(v) that Holders electing to have any 2019 Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the 2019 Notes, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the 2019 Notes completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
(vi) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile or other electronic transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of 2019 Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the 2019 Notes purchased; and
(vii) that Holders whose 2019 Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new 2019 Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the 2019 Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be equal to $1,000 in principal amount or an integral multiple thereof.
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of 2019 Notes in connection with a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 5.04, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 5.04 by virtue of such conflict.
 
(b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all 2019 Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all 2019 Notes or portions thereof properly tendered and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee (by book entry) the 2019 Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of 2019 Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company. The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of 2019 Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such 2019 Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly cause to be transferred by book entry to each Holder an interest in the 2019 Notes equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the 2019 Notes surrendered by such Holder, if any; , that each such 2019 Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 5.04 and all other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all 2019 Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
Any Domestic Subsidiary of the Company (other than Blanco or any Receivables Subsidiary) which incurs, has outstanding or guarantees any Specified Indebtedness shall, simultaneously with such incurrence or guarantee (or, if the Domestic Subsidiary has outstanding or guarantees Specified Indebtedness at the time of its creation or acquisition, at the time of such creation or acquisition) shall become a Guarantor and execute and deliver to the Trustee a 2019 Note Guarantee and a joinder to this Supplemental Indenture pursuant to which such Subsidiary shall agree to guarantee the Company's obligations under the 2019 Notes, except for all Subsidiaries that have properly been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries or Designated Non-Guarantors in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture for so long as they continue to constitute Unrestricted Subsidiaries or Designated Non-Guarantors. The form of such 2019 Note Guarantee and such joinder to this Supplemental Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit B and Exhibit C, respectively.
Section 5.05.
Additional 2019 Note Guarantees.
The Board of Directors of the Company may designate any Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if that designation would not cause a Default. The Board of Directors of the Company may redesignate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary if the redesignation would not cause a Default.
Section 5.06.
Designation of Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
 
Whether or not required the Company is required by the rules and regulations of the Commission, so long as any 2019 Notes are outstanding, the Company will file a copy of:
Section 5.07.
SEC Reports.
(i) all quarterly and annual financial information required to be contained in a filing with the SEC on Forms 10-Q and 10-K; and
(ii) all current reports required to be filed with the SEC on Form 8-K;
with the Commission for public availability within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and regulations (unless the Commission will not accept such a filing) and make such information available to securities analysts and prospective investors upon request.
The Company shall not, directly or indirectly, consolidate or merge with or into (whether or not the Company is the surviving corporation), or sell, assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions to, another Person, unless:
Section 6.01.
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets.
(a) either the Company is the surviving corporation or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made is a corporation, limited liability company or limited partnership organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and, if such entity is not a corporation, a co-obligor of the 2019 Notes is a corporation organized or existing under any such laws;
(b) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made assumes all the obligations of the Company under the 2019 Notes and this Supplemental Indenture, and to the extent applicable to the 2019 Notes, the Base Indenture, pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee;
(c) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall have happened and be continuing; and
(d) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and any assumption permitted or required by this Article complies with the provisions of this Article.
The provisions of this Section 6.01 shall not apply to a sale, merger, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of assets between or among the Company and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
Section 7.01.
Optional Redemption.
(a) The Company shall have the option to redeem the 2019 Notes, in whole or in part at any time and from time to time, at a Redemption Price (expressed as percentage of principal amount) equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount thereof; or
(ii) as determined by an Independent Investment Banker, the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate;
in each case, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the applicable Redemption Date.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the 2019 Notes or portion thereof called for redemption.
(b) Any redemption pursuant to this Section 7.01 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 11.01 through Section 11.07 of the Base Indenture.
Except as set forth above in Section 5.04 hereof, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the 2019 Notes.
Section 7.02.
Mandatory Redemption.
Subject to this Article 8, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of the 2019 Notes authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of this Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Notes and the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that:
Section 8.01.
Guarantee.
(a) the principal of and interest on the 2019 Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at Stated Maturity, by acceleration, redemption, mandatory repurchase or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the 2019 Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
(b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any 2019 Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at Stated Maturity, by acceleration, redemption, mandatory repurchase or otherwise.
 
Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each Guarantor agrees that this is a Guarantee of payment and not a Guarantee of collection.
The Guarantors agree that their obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the 2019 Notes or this Supplemental Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the 2019 Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of any Guarantor. Each Guarantor waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenant that this 2019 Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the 2019 Notes and this Supplemental Indenture.
If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this 2019 Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
Each Guarantor agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (i) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Section 5.02 of the Base Indenture or Section 3.01 hereof for the purposes of this 2019 Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (ii) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Section 5.02 of the Base Indenture or Section 3.01 hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this 2019 Note Guarantee. The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the 2019 Note Guarantee.
Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of 2019 Notes, each Holder, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the 2019 Note Guarantee of such Guarantor not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to any 2019 Note Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of any Guarantor will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under this Article 8, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its 2019 Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
Section 8.02.
Limitation on Guarantor Liability.
 
To evidence its 2019 Note Guarantee set forth in Section 8.01, each Guarantor hereby agrees that a notation of such 2019 Note Guarantee substantially in the form included in Exhibit B shall be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each 2019 Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and that this Supplemental Indenture shall be executed on behalf of such Guarantor by its President or one of its Vice Presidents.
Section 8.03.
Execution and Delivery of 2019 Note Guarantee
.
Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its 2019 Note Guarantee as set forth in Section 8.01 shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each 2019 Note a notation of such 2019 Note Guarantee.
If an Officer whose signature is on this Supplemental Indenture or on the 2019 Note Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the 2019 Note on which a 2019 Note Guarantee is endorsed, the 2019 Note Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
The delivery of any 2019 Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of the 2019 Note Guarantee set forth in this Supplemental Indenture on behalf of the Guarantors.
In the event that the Company creates or acquires any new Subsidiaries subsequent to the date of this Supplemental Indenture, the Company shall cause such Subsidiaries to execute a joinder to this Supplemental Indenture in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto and 2019 Note Guarantees in accordance with this Article 8, to the extent applicable.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 8.05, no Guarantor may sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person whether or not affiliated with such Guarantor unless:
Section 8.04.
Guarantors May Consolidate, etc., on Certain Terms.
(a) subject to Section 8.05 hereof, the Person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than a Guarantor or the Company) unconditionally assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee or by operation of law, under the 2019 Notes, this Supplemental Indenture and the 2019 Note Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; and
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists.
 
In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by operation of law or by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the 2019 Note Guarantee endorsed upon the 2019 Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Supplemental Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the 2019 Note Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the 2019 Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee. All the 2019 Note Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Supplemental Indenture as the 2019 Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture as though all of such 2019 Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
Except as set forth in Articles 8 and 10 of the Base Indenture and Articles 5 and 6 hereof, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in this Supplemental Indenture or in any of the 2019 Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor.
Section 8.05.
Releases.
A Guarantor will be released and relieved of its obligations under the 2019 Note Guarantee upon the occurrence of any of the events set forth in this Section 8.05.
(a) In the event of a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of such Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all of the Capital Stock of such Guarantor, in each case to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transactions) a Subsidiary of the Company if, after giving effect to such transaction, neither the Person acquiring such Capital Stock nor such Guarantor has outstanding or guarantees any Specified Indebtedness, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the Capital Stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of its obligations under its 2019 Note Guarantee.
(b) In the event the Company designates such Guarantor to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture, such Guarantor shall be released and relieved of its obligations under its 2019 Note Guarantee.
(c) In the event such Guarantor shall cease (or simultaneously with the release of its Guarantee hereunder shall cease) to have outstanding or guarantee any Specified Indebtedness, such Guarantor shall be released and relieved of its obligations under its 2019 Note Guarantee.
 
Upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, or upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate to the effect that the applicable Guarantor has ceased (or simultaneously with the release of its 2019 Note Guarantee hereunder shall cease) to have outstanding or guarantee any Specified Indebtedness or that the applicable Guarantor has been designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its 2019 Note Guarantee.
Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its 2019 Note Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the 2019 Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under this Supplemental Indenture as provided in this Article.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested; all as of the day and year first written above.
 
GUARANTORS:
AMBULATORY PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC. AMERISOURCE HEALTH SERVICES CORPORATION AMERISOURCEBERGEN DRUG CORPORATION AMERISOURCEBERGEN HOLDING CORPORATION AMERISOURCEBERGEN SERVICES CORPORATION AMERISOURCEBERGEN SPECIALTY GROUP, INC. ANDERSON PACKAGING, INC. APS ENTERPRISES HOLDING COMPANY, INC. ASD SPECIALTY HEALTHCARE, INC. AUTOMED TECHNOLOGIES, INC. BELLCO DRUG CORP. CLINICAL OUTCOMES RESOURCE APPLICATION CORPORATION DIALYSIS PURCHASING ALLIANCE, INC. HEALTH SERVICES CAPITAL CORPORATION I.G.G. OF AMERICA, INC. IHS ACQUISITION XXX, INC. IMEDEX, LLC INTEGRATED COMMERCIALIZATION SOLUTIONS, INC. LIBERTY ACQUISITION CORP. MEDICAL INITIATIVES, INC. PHARM PLUS ACQUISITION, INC. SOLANA BEACH, INC. SPECIALTY PHARMACY, INC. SPECIALTY PHARMACY OF CALIFORNIA, INC. TELEPHARMACY SOLUTIONS, INC. THE LASH GROUP, INC. US BIOSERVICES CORPORATION VALUE APOTHECARIES, INC. XCENDA, LLC
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE, TOGETHER WITH ALL SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES THERETO, GOVERNING THIS GLOBAL NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.05 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.05 OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.09 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
Registered
promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of on November 15, 2019 Interest Payment Dates: May 15 and November 15 Record Dates: May 1 and November 1 Dated:
                    
 
 
Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Supplemental Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
1. AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this 2019 Note at 4.875% per annum from the date hereof until maturity. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an ""). Interest on the 2019 Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this 2019 Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest will accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date will be May 15, 2010. The Company will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the 2019 Notes to the extent lawful; it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
.
Company
Interest Payment Date
provided
provided
further
2. The Company will pay interest on the 2019 Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of 2019 Notes at the close of business on the May 1 or November 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such 2019 Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 3.07 of the Base Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Principal, premium, if any, and interest on the 2019 Notes will be payable at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar within the City of Philadelphia in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders of the 2019 Notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders of 2019 Notes; that all payments of principal, premium and interest with respect to 2019 Notes, the Holders of which have given wire transfer instructions to the Trustee, will be required to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof. Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
.
provided
3. Initially, U.S. Bank National Association, the Trustee under the Indenture (as defined below), will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
.
 
4. This 2019 Note is one of a duly authenticated series of securities of the Company issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture (the ""), dated as of November 19, 2009, between the Company and the Trustee, as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), dated as of November 19, 2009, among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the 2019 Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code Sections 77aaa-77bbbb). The 2019 Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this 2019 Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of this 2019 Note will govern and be controlling. The Company will be entitled to issue Additional 2019 Notes pursuant to Section 2.08 of the Supplemental Indenture.
Indenture
.
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
5.  (a) The Company shall have the option to redeem the 2019 Notes, in whole or in part at any time and from time to time, at a Redemption Price (expressed as percentage of principal amount) equal to the greater of:
Optional Redemption
.
(i) 100% of the principal amount thereof; or
(ii) as determined by an Independent Investment Banker, the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate;
in each case plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the applicable Redemption Date.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the 2019 Notes or portion thereof called for redemption.
(b) Any redemption pursuant to this paragraph shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 11.01 through Section 11.07 of the Base Indenture.
6. Except as set forth in Paragraph 7 below, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the 2019 Notes.
Mandatory Redemption
.
7. Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the 2019 Notes as described in Paragraph 5 hereof within 60 days after the Change of Control Triggering Event, each Holder shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's 2019 Notes (the "") at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the ""), subject to the rights of the Holders of the 2019 Notes on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date. Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of the 2019 Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by Section 5.04 of the Supplemental Indenture.
Repurchase at Option of Holder
.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
 
8. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder whose 2019 Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. 2019 Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the 2019 Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. Subject to any conditions precedent that may be applicable, on and after the Redemption Date interest ceases to accrue on 2019 Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
Notice of Redemption
.
9. The 2019 Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. 2019 Notes may be transferred or exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company need not exchange or transfer any 2019 Note or portion of a 2019 Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any 2019 Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any 2019 Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of 2019 Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
.
10. The registered Holder of a 2019 Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
.
11.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
.
(a) The Base Indenture may be amended as provided therein. Subject to certain exceptions, the Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Note Guarantees or the 2019 Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the 2019 Notes (including Additional 2019 Notes under the Supplemental Indenture, if any). The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the 2019 Notes (including Additional 2019 Notes, if any) may waive any past default with respect to the 2019 Notes and its consequences, except a default not theretofore cured in the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the 2019 Notes (except a payment default resulting from an acceleration that has been rescinded), or in respect of a covenant or provision in Article 4 of the Supplemental Indenture that cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each 2019 Note.
(b) Without the consent of any Holder of a 2019 Note, the Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Note Guarantees or the 2019 Notes may be amended or supplemented:
(i) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company or any Guarantor, or successive successions, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company and such Guarantor pursuant to Article 6 and Section 8.04 of the Supplemental Indenture; or
 
(ii) to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions or conditions for the protection of the Holders of the 2019 Notes as the Company and the Trustee shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders of the 2019 Notes or to surrender any right or power therein conferred upon the Company; or
(iii) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision therein which may be inconsistent with any other provision therein or in any supplemental indenture thereto, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Supplemental Indenture that do not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the 2019 Notes in any material respect; or
(iv) to add to the Supplemental Indenture such provisions as may be expressly permitted by the TIA, excluding, however, the provisions referred to in Section 316(a)(2) of the TIA as in effect at the date as of which this instrument is executed or any corresponding provision in any similar federal statute hereafter enacted; or
(v) to add guarantors or co-obligors with respect to the 2019 Notes; or
(vi) to secure the 2019 Notes; or
(vii) to add to the rights of the Holders of the 2019 Notes; or
(viii) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by another corporation as a successor Trustee hereunder with respect to the 2019 Notes and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Supplemental Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to Section 6.11 of the Base Indenture; or
(ix) to add any additional Events of Default in respect of the 2019 Notes; or
(x) to comply with the requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Supplemental Indenture under the TIA; or
(xi) to conform the text of the Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Notes or the 2019 Note Guarantees to any provision of the "Description of Notes" section of the Company's Prospectus Supplement dated November 16, 2009, relating to the initial offering of the 2019 Notes, to the extent that such provision in the "Description of Notes" was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of the Supplemental Indenture, the 2019 Notes or the Guarantees; or
(xii) to allow any Guarantor to execute a joinder to the Supplemental Indenture and/or a 2019 Note Guarantee with respect to the 2019 Notes.
12. Events of Default include:
Defaults and Remedies
.
(i) default in the payment of any interest on the 2019 Notes when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
 
(ii) default in the payment of the principal amount of (or premium, if any, on) the 2019 Notes as and when the same shall become due, either at Stated Maturity, upon redemption, by declaration, or otherwise; or
(iii) default, subject to the provisions of Section 10.06 of the Base Indenture, in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in the performance of which or the breach of which is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the 2019 Notes, a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" hereunder; or
Notice of Default
(iv) the entry of an order for relief against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of its Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, under Bankruptcy Law by a court having jurisdiction in the premises or a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises adjudging the Company, the Significant Subsidiary or such group of Restricted Subsidiaries a bankrupt or insolvent under any other applicable Federal or State law, or the entry of a decree or order approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company, or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of its Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, under Bankruptcy Law or any other applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company, or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of its Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, or of any substantial part of their respective property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(v) the consent by the Company, or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of its Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by them of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under Bankruptcy Law or any other applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by them to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company, the Significant Subsidiary or such group of Restricted Subsidiaries or of any substantial part of their respective property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by them in writing of their inability to pay their debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company, the Significant Subsidiary or such group of Restricted Subsidiaries in furtherance of any such action;
 
(vi) failure by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to comply with Section 5.04 of the Supplemental Indenture, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the 2019 Notes of a Notice of Default;
(vii) default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries), whether such Indebtedness or Guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of the Supplemental Indenture, which (i) is caused by the failure to pay principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a ""), and (ii) results in the actual acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity, and, in each case, the principal amount of such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $50.0 million or more;
Payment Default
(viii) a final judgment or final judgments for the payment of money are entered by a court or courts of competent jurisdiction against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary and such judgment or judgments remain undischarged for a period (during which execution shall not be effectively stayed pending appeal (or otherwise stayed)) of 60 days, that the aggregate of all such undischarged judgments exceeds $50.0 million (net of any amount covered by insurance);
provided
(ix) except as permitted by the Supplemental Indenture, any 2019 Note Guarantee is held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under such Guarantor's 2019 Note Guarantee.
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may declare all the 2019 Notes to be due and payable immediately, and upon receipt of written instructions from the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding 2019 Notes, the Trustee will declare all the 2019 Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, with respect to the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law, all outstanding 2019 Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Supplemental Indenture or the 2019 Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the 2019 Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest, except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the 2019 Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Supplemental Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the 2019 Notes or as otherwise provided under Section 11. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default.
 
13. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustees Dealings With Company
.
14. A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company or the Guarantors under the 2019 Notes, the 2019 Note Guarantees or the Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of 2019 Notes by accepting a 2019 Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the 2019 Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
.
15. This 2019 Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
.
16. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
.
17. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the 2019 Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the 2019 Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon. The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture and the Guarantees. Requests may be made to:
CUSIP Numbers
.
AmerisourceBergen Corporation 1300 Morris Drive Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania 19087-5594 Attention: Vice President and Treasurer
 
To assign this 2019 Note, fill in the form below:
(I) or (we) assign and transfer this 2019 Note to:
                    
                    
                     
                                                              
(Insert assignee's legal name)
and irrevocably appoint  to transfer this 2019 Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
                    
                                         
Date:
                    
                    
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
If you want to elect to have this 2019 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 5.04 of the Supplemental Indenture, check the box below:
Section 5.04
o
If you want to elect to have only part of the 2019 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 5.04 of the Supplemental Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
$
                    
Date:
                    
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global 2019 Note for an interest in another Global 2019 Note or for note in definitive form, or exchanges of a part of another Global 2019 Note or note in definitive form for an interest in this Global 2019 Note, have been made:
 
EXHIBIT B
For value received, each of the Guarantors (which term includes any successor Person under the Supplemental Indenture (as hereinafter defined)) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth and subject to the provisions in the Indenture, dated as of November 19, 2009 (the ""), by and among AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "") and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (the ""), dated as of November 19, 2009, by and among the Company, the Guarantors named on the signature pages thereto and the Trustee (the Base Indenture as amended and supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture is hereinafter referred to as the ""), (a) the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 2019 Notes (as defined in the Supplemental Indenture), whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal and premium, and, to the extent permitted by law, interest, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any 2019 Notes or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of 2019 Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the 2019 Note Guarantee are expressly set forth in Article 8 of the Supplemental Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Supplemental Indenture for the precise terms of the 2019 Note Guarantee. Each Holder of a 2019 Note, by accepting the same, agrees to and will be bound by such provisions and appoints the Trustee attorney-in-fact of such Holder for such purpose.
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
 
EXHIBIT C
This JOINDER TO FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of , 20, among (the ""), a subsidiary of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (or its permitted successor), a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Company, the other Guarantors (as defined in the First Supplemental Indenture referred to herein) and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee under the First Supplemental Indenture referred to below (the "").
Joinder
                    
     
                    
                    
Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Company
Trustee
The Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the ""), dated as of November 19, 2009, between the Company and the Trustee, as amended and supplemented by a first supplemental indenture thereto (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), dated as of November 19, 2009, among the Company, the Guarantors named therein and the Trustee, providing for the original issuance of an aggregate principal amount of $400 million of the Company's 4.875% Senior 2019 Notes due 2019 (the "").
Base Indenture
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
2019 Notes
The First Supplemental Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary will execute and deliver to the Trustee a joinder to First Supplemental Indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary will unconditionally guarantee all of the Company's Obligations under the 2019 Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the "").
2019 Note Guarantee
Pursuant to Section 4.01 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Joinder.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the 2019 Notes as follows:
1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition will have the meanings assigned to them in the First Supplemental Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
2. . By execution hereof, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees as of the date hereof, to become and is made a party to the First Supplemental Indenture and for all purposes under the First Supplemental Indenture, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall be included within the term (as defined in the First Supplemental Indenture). The undersigned hereby adopts and agrees to be bound by all of the agreements, terms, conditions and restrictions of a "Guarantor" as such term is defined in the First Supplemental Indenture and further authorizes the Trustee to attach this signature page to the First Supplemental Indenture in order to make the Guaranteeing Subsidiary a party to the First Supplemental Indenture.
Guarantee
"Guarantor"
 
3. .
Governing Law
THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS JOINDER BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
4. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Joinder. Each signed copy will be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
5. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and will not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
6. . The Trustee will not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Joinder or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company.
The Trustee
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Joinder to the First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.

Exhibit 99.1
 AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today announced it had completed its public offering of $400 million principal amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due November 15, 2019. AmerisourceBergen intends to use approximately $221.9 million of the net proceeds from this offering to repay substantially all the amounts outstanding under its multi-currency revolving credit facility. The remainder of the proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.
CHESTERBROOK, Pa. November 19, 2009
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies with operations primarily in the United States, Canada. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $71 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #26 on the Fortune 500 list.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements about AmerisourceBergen's future business and financial performance, estimates and prospects. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; qui tom litigation for alleged violation of laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes within AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation's operations and our corporate functions without operating problems and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; continued volatility, and further deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and current reports 8-K (which we may revise or supplement in future reports filed to the SEC) provide additional information about these risks, uncertainties and other matters. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.


