FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20090122094625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 22, 2009, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In the news release issued on January 22, 2009, the Registrant affirmed its previous guidance for fiscal year 2009 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $3.08 to $3.25. The Registrant also announced that it has not changed its key assumptions supporting the fiscal year 2009 diluted earnings per share rangewhich are: revenue growth of between 1 percent and 3 percent; operating margin expansion in the low to mid single digit basis point range; and free cash flow in the range of $460 million to $535 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. Assumptions also include the expected repurchase of approximately $350 million of Registrant's common shares in fiscal 2009. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
,
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.   (d)    Exhibits.
99.1 News Release, dated January 22, 2009, regarding Registrant's earnings for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008 and fiscal year 2009 expectations.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION
Date: January 22, 2009
By: Name: Michael D. DiCandilo Title: Executive Vice President           and Chief Financial Officer
s/ Michael D. DiCandilo                   
/
 

Exhibit 99.1
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2009 first quarter, ended December 31, 2008, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.73, a 12 percent increase. Revenue in the quarter was $17.3 billion, a 0.3 percent increase. The Company reaffirmed its fiscal year 2009 guidance, saying it continues to expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $3.08 to $3.25, which represents a 7 percent to 12 percent increase over the $2.89 last fiscal year.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, January 22, 2009 
Fiscal First Quarter Highlights
"In the December quarter, we delivered solid performance reflecting our two growth drivers, generic drug distribution and our specialty distribution and related services business," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Revenue in the quarter was essentially flat, but would have increased 4.8 percent if adjusted for the negative impact of the July 1, 2008 loss of the direct-to-warehouse business of a large retail drug chain. A double-digit increase in the sale of generic drugs, especially those on our proprietary formulary, PRxO Generics Solution; good fee-for-service performance; and disciplined expense control drove profitability. We used $304 million of cash in our operations as we built normal seasonal inventories and continue to expect our free cash flow to be in the range of $460 million to $535 million for fiscal 2009. Our receivable days were down in the quarter; our balance sheet remains strong; and we have good financial flexibility."
 
Results Highlights
 
Key Ratios
Fiscal Year 2009 Expectations
"Looking ahead, the Company continues to expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009 to be in a range of $3.08 to $3.25, which represents an increase of 7 percent to 12 percent over the $2.89 in fiscal year 2008," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Executive Officer. "Also unchanged are our key assumptions supporting this diluted earnings per share range, which are: revenue growth of between 1 percent and 3 percent; operating margin expansion in the low to mid single digit basis point range; and free cash flow in the range of $460 million to $535 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. Assumptions also include the expected repurchase of approximately $350 million of AmerisourceBergen common shares in fiscal 2009."
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on January 22, 2009. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and Chief Operating Officer of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation.
 
To access the live conference call via telephone:
Dial in: (612) 288-0337, no access code required.
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 2:30 p.m. January 22, 2009 until 11:59 p.m. January 29, 2009. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $70 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #28 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
About AmerisourceBergen
www.amerisourcebergen.com
This news release contains forward-looking statements about AmerisourceBergen's future business and financial performance, estimates and prospects. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) used to treat anemia patients; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and current reports 8-K (which we may revise or supplement in future reports filed to the SEC) provide additional information about these risks, uncertainties and other matters. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 


