FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20090423090830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 23, 2009, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.  
In the news release issued on April 23, 2009, the Registrant announced that it was increasing and narrowing its expectations for fiscal year 2009 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to a range of $3.18 to $3.30 per share, due primarily to the lower number of shares outstanding and the impact of reduced interest expense. The Registrant also announced that it has not changed the key assumptions supporting the fiscal year 2009 diluted earnings per share range, which are revenue growth of between 1 percent and 3 percent; operating margin expansion in the low to mid single digit basis point range; and free cash flow in the range of $460 million to $535 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. Also unchanged is the expected repurchase of approximately $350 million of Registrant's common shares in fiscal year 2009. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.  
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2009 second quarter ended March 31, 2009, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $0.95, a 17 percent increase. The Company also increased its fiscal year 2009 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations expectations to a range of $3.18 to $3.30, a 10 percent to 14 percent increase over last fiscal year's $2.89. The previous guidance for fiscal year 2009 was $3.08 to $3.25 for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, April 23, 2009
Fiscal Second Quarter Highlights
Fiscal First Six Months Highlights
 
"Our outstanding operating results in the March quarter reflected the continued strong performance of our two growth drivers, generic drug distribution and our specialty distribution and related services business, as well as continued cost discipline," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Revenue in the quarter was down 2.5 percent, but would have increased 3 percent when adjusted for one less business day than the previous year's second quarter and the negative impact of the July 1, 2008 loss of the direct-to-warehouse business of a large retail drug chain.
"The rise in profitability was driven by a double-digit increase in generic drug sales; excellent performance in our higher-margin specialty business; good performance under our fee-for-service contracts with manufacturers; and solid expense control. Our receivable days were again down in the quarter; our balance sheet remains strong; and we have good financial flexibility."
Summary of Quarterly Results
 
Key Quarterly Ratios
 
Summary of First Six Months
Fiscal Year 2009 Expectations Raised
"Looking ahead, the Company is increasing and narrowing its expectations for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009 to a range of $3.18 to $3.30, an increase of 10 percent to 14 percent over the $2.89 in fiscal year 2008," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Executive Officer. "The increase in our expectations for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is primarily the result of less outstanding shares, now expected to be lower by 6 percent to 7 percent compared to last fiscal year, and of reduced interest expense, now expected to be comparable to the prior fiscal year interest expense of $64 million."
Yost said, "Remaining unchanged are the following assumptions supporting the fiscal 2009 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations range: revenue growth of between 1 percent and 3 percent; operating margin expansion in the low to mid single digit basis point range; and free cash flow in the range of $460 million to $535 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. Also unchanged is the expected repurchase of approximately $350 million of AmerisourceBergen common shares in fiscal 2009."
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on April 23, 2009. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 
To access the live conference call via telephone:
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 1:00 p.m. April 23, 2009 until 11:59 p.m. April 30, 2009. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $70 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #26 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements about AmerisourceBergen's future business and financial performance, estimates and prospects. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) used to treat anemia patients; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes within AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation's operations and our corporate functions without operating problems and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining or reducing our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and financing sources; continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and current reports 8-K (which we may revise or supplement in future reports filed to the SEC) provide additional information about these risks, uncertainties and other matters. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 


