FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20091103090326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 3, 2009, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter and year ended September 30, 2009 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In the news release issued on November 3, 2009, the Registrant issued its guidance for fiscal year 2010 diluted earnings per share in the range of $1.82 to $1.92. Key assumptions supporting the fiscal year 2010 diluted earnings per share range are: revenue growth of between 5 percent and 7 percent (with the first half of the year higher as the Registrant annualizes the addition of major new business in March 2010); operating margin growth of flat to expansion in the low single digit basis points range; and free cash flow in the range of $500 million to $575 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. The Registrant also announced that, subject to the approval of its Board of Directors and market conditions, it expects to repurchase approximately $350 million of its common shares in fiscal 2010. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 News Release, dated November 3, 2009, regarding Registrant's earnings for the fiscal quarter and year ended September 30, 2009 and fiscal year 2010 expectations.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2009 fourth quarter ended September 30, 2009, diluted earnings per share were $0.44, a 22 percent increase, and revenue increased 9 percent to a record $18.7 billion. Earnings per share and other share-related data reflect the Company's June 2009 two-for-one stock split.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, November 3, 2009 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter Highlights
Fiscal Year 2009 Highlights
 
"Our outstanding results in the September quarter were driven by strong revenue growth, including continued above-market sales growth in generic drugs; excellent performance by our higher-margin specialty distribution and services business; expense discipline that held our dollar expense below the previous year's fourth quarter; and great working capital management," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "For fiscal year 2009, we again delivered on our consistent formula: revenue growth; operating margin expansion through generics, the specialty business, and operational excellence; and strong cash generation. Our balance sheet remains strong, and we have good financial flexibility."
"We have great positive momentum going into the new fiscal year," he continued, "and in fiscal year 2010, we expect to achieve diluted earnings per share in the range of $1.82 to $1.92, an 8 percent to 14 percent increase over diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in fiscal 2009."
Summary of Quarterly Results
 
Summary of Fiscal Year 2009
Fiscal Year 2010 Expectations
"Looking ahead, the Company expects diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2010 to be in the range of $1.82 to $1.92, an increase of 8 percent to 14 percent over the $1.69 from continuing operations in fiscal year 2009," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Executive Officer. "Key assumptions supporting this diluted earnings per share range for fiscal year 2010 are: revenue growth of between 5 percent and 7 percent, with the first half of the year higher as we annualize the addition of major new business in March 2010; operating margin growth of flat to expansion in the low single-digit basis points range; and free cash flow in the range of $500 million to $575 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. Subject to the approval of our Board of Directors and market conditions, we expect to spend approximately $350 million to repurchase our common shares in fiscal year 2010."
 
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on November 3, 2009. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To access the live conference call via telephone:
Dial in: (312) 470-7119, the access code is "ABC".
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call will be available from 2:00 p.m. November 3, 2009 until 11:59 p.m. November 10, 2009. The webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $71 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #26 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements about AmerisourceBergen's future business and financial performance, estimates and prospects. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes within AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation's operations and our corporate functions without operating problems and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; continued volatility, and further deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and current reports 8-K (which we may revise or supplement in future reports filed to the SEC) provide additional information about these risks, uncertainties and other matters. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 


