FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20101102085408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Conditions.
On November 2, 2010, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter and year ended September 30, 2010 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In the news release issued on November 2, 2010, the Registrant issued its guidance for fiscal year 2011 diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.31 to $2.41. Key assumptions supporting the 2011 diluted earnings per share range are: revenue growth of between 2 percent and 4 percent; operating margin growth in the low to mid single-digit basis points range, and free cash flow in the range of $625 million to $700 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $150 million range. The Registrant also announced that, subject to market conditions, it expects to repurchase approximately $400 million of its common shares in fiscal 2011.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2010 fourth quarter ended September 30, 2010, diluted earnings per share increased 13.6 percent to $0.50, and revenue increased 5.3 percent to a record $19.7 billion. The Company expects diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2011 to be in the range of $2.31 to $2.41, a 7 percent to 12 percent increase over $2.16 per share, which represents the $2.22 diluted earnings per share achieved in fiscal year 2010 less litigation gains. All results are presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
VALLEY FORGE, PA, November 2, 2010
Fiscal Fourth Quarter Highlights
Fiscal Year 2010 Highlights
 
"Our outstanding results in both the September quarter and our fiscal year 2010 were driven by strong revenue growth, and excellent performance in the two key growth drivers for our businessgeneric pharmaceuticals and specialty distribution and services," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Even without generic introductions, our extraordinary results this year would have been solid, demonstrating the power of our business model. This is the fifth consecutive year we have expanded our pharmaceutical distribution operating margin, reflecting our operating leverage, cost control initiatives, and attractive customer and product mix. We continue to generate excellent cash flow, and our balance sheet remains strong. We have great financial flexibility."
"We have solid positive momentum going into the new fiscal year," he continued. "While we do not expect to achieve the same level of extraordinary earnings per share growth in fiscal year 2011 that we achieved in 2010, we do expect that contributions from generics, including new introductions; our strong offerings in specialty distribution and services; and our focus on efficiency and productivity will continue to drive solid results for years to come."
Summary of Quarterly Results
 
Summary of Fiscal Year 2010
 
Fiscal Year 2011 Expectations
"Looking ahead, the Company expects diluted earnings per share in fiscal year 2011 to be in the range of $2.31 to $2.41, a 7 percent to 12 percent increase over a base of $2.16, which represents the diluted earnings per share achieved in fiscal year 2010 less the contribution from litigation gains," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Executive Officer. "Key assumptions supporting the increased diluted earnings per share range for fiscal year 2011 are: revenue growth of between 2 percent and 4 percent; operating margin growth in the low to mid single-digit basis points range; and free cash flow in the range of $625 million to $700 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $150 million range. Subject to market conditions, we expect to spend approximately $400 million to repurchase our common shares in fiscal year 2011."
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on November 2, 2010. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To access the live conference call via telephone:
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call will be available from 2:00 p.m. November 2, 2010 until 11:59 p.m. November 9, 2010. The webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With $78 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #24 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation and our corporate operations without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, dispensing or service fees and/or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing, dispensing or service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect, are difficult for us to integrate into our business operations or do not adhere to our system of internal controls; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for this Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2009 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
qui tam
 
 
 
 


