FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20100422091851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 22, 2010, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In the news release issued on April 22, 2010, the Registrant increased its expectations for fiscal year 2010 diluted earnings per share to a range of $2.01 to $2.10 per share. The Registrant announced that its assumption for revenue growth remains unchanged at between 7 percent and 8 percent, which reflects market growth of 3 percent to 5 percent in the second half of the fiscal year as the Registrant annualizes most of its new business. The Registrant increased its assumption for operating margin expansion to the high single digit to low double digit basis point range and raised its assumption for free cash flow for the fiscal year to $525 million to $600 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. Assumptions also include the expected repurchase of approximately $350 million of the Registrant's common shares in fiscal year 2010. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 News Release, dated April 22, 2010, regarding Registrant's earnings for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010 and fiscal year 2010 expectations.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2010 second quarter ended March 31, 2010, diluted earnings per share were a record $0.63, a 34 percent increase. Revenue in the quarter was $19.3 billion, up 11.5 percent. The Company also increased its fiscal year 2010 diluted earnings per share guidance to a range of $2.01 to $2.10, which represents a 19 percent to 24 percent increase over the $1.69 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations last fiscal year. All the results are presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and earnings per share and other share-related data reflect the Company's June 2009 two-for-one stock split.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, April 22, 2010 
Fiscal Second Quarter Highlights
Fiscal First Six Months Highlights
 
"Our key growth drivers of generic pharmaceuticals and specialty distribution and services were prominent in our outstanding results this quarter. We delivered strong revenue growth, including above market growth in generics, and disciplined working capital and expense control," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer. "In the quarter, revenue grew $2.0 billion or 11.5 percent, with more than 4 percent of that growth coming from new business. Our receivable days and inventory days were both down in the quarter. Our balance sheet remains strong, and we have excellent financial flexibility."
Summary of Quarterly Results
 
Key Quarterly Ratios
Fiscal Year 2010 Expectations Raised
"Looking ahead, the Company is increasing its expectations for diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2010 to a range of $2.01 to $2.10, an increase of 19 percent to 24 percent over the $1.69 from continuing operations in fiscal year 2009," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our assumption for revenue growth is unchanged at between 7 percent and 8 percent, which reflects market growth of 3 percent to 5 percent in the second half of the fiscal year as the Company annualizes most of its new business. We are increasing our operating margin expansion assumption to the high single digit to low double digit basis point range, and we have raised our free cash flow assumption range for the fiscal year to $525 million to $600 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. The Company continues to expect to repurchase approximately $350 million of AmerisourceBergen common shares in fiscal 2010."
 
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on April 22, 2010. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, President and Chief Executive Officer and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To access the live conference call via telephone:
Dial in: The dial-in number for the live call will be 210-234-0010. The access code for the call is ABC.
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 2:30 p.m. April 22, 2010 until 11:59 p.m. April 30, 2010. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $75 billion in annualized revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #24 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; qui tam litigation for alleged violations of laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes within AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation's operations and our corporate functions without operating problems and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for this Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2009 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
 


