FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20100309131813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On March 4, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Company") unanimously approved amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws"). The principal amendments to the Bylaws are summarized as follows:
(1) Section 2.03 ("Notice and Business of Meetings") was amended for purposes of making the following changes to the advance notice bylaw provisions: (i) to change the deadline for providing notice to the Secretary of the Company of a stockholder's intent to bring business or to nominate a person for election as a director at an annual meeting of stockholders from not less than sixty (60) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting to not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; (ii) to require additional information in any such notice, including, among other things, disclosure of any derivative positions held beneficially or of record by such stockholder in the Company's securities and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transactions or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of the stockholder, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding has been made, the effect or intent of which is to increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder with respect to the Company's securities; (iii) to require a representation from the stockholder providing any such notice regarding whether the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of the proposal or nomination; and (iv) to require, by written notice provided within ten (10) days after the record date, any information required by the applicable advance notice provisions to be supplemented to speak as of the record date for the annual meeting of stockholders.
(2) Section 2.09(b) ("Election of Directors") was amended to change the date on which a stockholder may withdraw a proposed nominee for director, which may have the effect of changing the voting standard applicable to the election of directors. Under Section 2.09(b) of the Bylaws, the nomination of a person for election as a director by a stockholder in compliance with all of the applicable requirements of the Bylaws has the effect of changing the voting standard applicable to the election of directors at a meeting of the stockholders from a majority vote standard to a plurality vote standard unless all stockholder nominations for directors are withdrawn on or prior to the tenth day preceding the mailing date of Company's notice of the meeting.
(3) Section 3.13 ("Removal of Directors") and Section 9.01 ("Amendments") were amended to replace all supermajority vote requirements with a majority vote requirement.
(4) Section 2.03 ("Notice and Business of Meetings"), Section 3.07 ("Special Meetings; Notice and Waiver of Notice"), and Section 4.03 ("Meetings; Notice and Waiver of Notice") were amended to allow for electronic transmission of notices of meetings of the stockholders, special meetings of the Board and special meetings of committees of the Board, in accordance with Delaware General Corporation Law Section 232.
 
(5) Section 3.11 ("Action Without a Meeting") was amended in accordance with Delaware General Corporation Law Section 141(f) to allow the Board to act without a meeting by consent using electronic technology in addition to acting by consent in writing as previously authorized.
The amendments to the Bylaws are effective as of March 4, 2010.
As a result of the amendments to the advance notice provisions of the Bylaws, for proposals other than those governed by Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company must receive notice of a stockholder's intent to bring business or to nominate a person for election as a director at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders no earlier than November 3, 2010 and no later than December 3, 2010.
The foregoing description of the amendments to the Bylaws set forth in Item 5.03 of this report is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amended and Restated Bylaws filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company held on March 4, 2010, the items listed below were submitted to a vote of the stockholders through the solicitation of proxies. The proposals are described in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Each of the items was approved by the stockholders pursuant to the voting results set forth below.
Item 1  Election of Three Directors to Class III.
The following individuals were elected as directors to serve until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until his successor is duly elected and qualified. The voting results were as follows:
.
Item 2  Approval of the Amendment and Restatement of AmerisourceBergen Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to Replace all Supermajority Vote Requirements with a Majority Vote Requirement
The voting results were as follows:
 
Item 3  .
Ratification of Appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Company's Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal Year 2010
The voting results were as follows:
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In a news release, dated March 4, 2010, the Company announced the results of its 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders including the election of three directors, the amendment and restatement of the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young as the Company's independent public accounting firm for fiscal year 2010.
In addition, the Company reaffirmed its guidance for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2010 to be in a range of $1.89 to $1.98. The Company continues to expect revenue growth of between 7 percent and 8 percent, operating margin expansion in the low to mid single digit basis point range, free cash flow in the range of $500 million to $575 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range, and the expected repurchase of approximately $350 million of Company's common shares in fiscal year 2010. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. The registered office of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "") in the State of Delaware shall be The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware 19801, and the registered agent in charge thereof shall be The Corporation Trust Company.
SECTION 1.01.
Registered Office
Corporation
. The Corporation may also have an office or offices at any other place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "") may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
SECTION 1.02.
Other Offices
Board
. The annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation for the election of Directors of the Corporation (""), and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before such meeting, shall be held at such place, date and time as shall be fixed by the Board and designated in the notice or waiver of notice of such annual meeting.
SECTION 2.01.
Annual Meetings
Directors
. Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called by the Board pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by a majority of the members of the Board, to be held at such place, date and time as shall be designated in the notice or waiver of notice thereof. Only business within the purposes described in the notice required by Section 2.03 of this Article II may be conducted at the special meeting. The ability of the stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation is specifically denied.
SECTION 2.02.
Special Meetings
 
. (a) . Except as otherwise provided by law, written notice of each meeting of stockholders shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote thereat by delivery of a notice personally, mailing a notice or giving notice by a form of electronic transmission in the manner permitted by Section 232 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. If mailed, the notice shall be directed to the stockholder in a postage-prepaid envelope at his address as it appears on the stock books of the Corporation unless, prior to the time of mailing, he shall have filed with the Secretary a written request that notices intended for him be mailed to some other address, in which case it shall be mailed to the address designated in such request. Notice of each meeting of stockholders shall be in such form as is approved by the Board and shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, the date and time when and the place where it is to be held, and shall be delivered personally or mailed not more than sixty (60) days and not less than ten (10) days before the day of the meeting. Except as otherwise provided by law, the business which may be transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall consist of and be limited to the purpose or purposes so stated in such notice. The Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the transfer agent of the Corporation shall, after giving such notice, make an affidavit stating that notice has been given, which shall be filed with the minutes of such meeting.
SECTION 2.03.
Notice and Business of Meetings
General
(b) . (i) No business other than the nomination and election of directors may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders unless the business is (A) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (B) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board (or any duly authorized committee thereof), or (C) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation who (x) is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2.03 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (y) complies with all the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.03(b).
Advance Notice Provisions for Business to be Transacted at Annual Meeting
(ii) In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder (other than the nomination of a person for election as a director which is governed by Section 2.03(c)), such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
(A) To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty (30) days or delayed by more than sixty (60) days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be delivered by the later of (x) a date that is not earlier than the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90) day prior to such annual meeting or (y) the tenth (10) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.
th
th
 
(B) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (1) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (2) the name and record address of such stockholder, (3) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (4) any derivative positions held beneficially or of record by the stockholder in the Corporation's securities and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transactions or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of the stockholder, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding has been made, the effect or intent of which is to increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder with respect to the Corporation's securities, (5) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder in such business, (6) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting, and (7) a representation whether the stockholder intends to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of the proposal. Any information required pursuant to this Section 2.03(b)(ii)(B) shall be supplemented to speak as of the record date for the annual meeting of stockholders which supplemented notice shall be provided not later than ten (10) days after such record date.
(iii) No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.03(b) (other than the nomination of a person for election as a director which is governed by Section 2.03(c)), provided, however, that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 2.03(b) shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business. If the chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
(c) . (i) No nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be made at the annual meeting of the stockholders, other than nominations that are (A) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (B) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board (or any duly authorized committee thereof), or (C) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation who (x) is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2.03 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (y) complies with all the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.03(c).
Advance Notice Provisions for Nomination of Directors
(ii) In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
 
(A) To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty (30) days or delayed by more than sixty (60) days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be delivered by the later of (x) a date that is not earlier than the one hundred twentieth (120) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90) day prior to such annual meeting or (y) the tenth (10) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.
th
th
th
(B) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (1) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (v) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (w) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (x) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person, (y) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), and (z) a statement whether such person, if elected, intends to tender, promptly following such person's election or re-election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon such person's failure to receive the required vote for re-election at the next meeting at which such person would face re-election and upon acceptance of such resignation by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the Corporation's Board Policy on Director Elections set forth in the Corporation's Corporate Governance Principles; and (2) as to the stockholder giving notice (t) the name and record address of such stockholder, (u) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (v) any derivative positions held beneficially or of record by the stockholder in the Corporation's securities and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transactions or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of the stockholder, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding has been made, the effect or intent of which is to increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder with respect to the Corporation's securities, (w) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such stockholder, (x) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to nominate the person(s) named in its notice, (y) a representation whether the shareholder intends to solicit proxies from the stockholders in support of the election of the proposed nominee as director, and (z) any other information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of Directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a Director if elected. Any information required pursuant to this Section 2.03(c)(ii)(B) shall be supplemented to speak as of the record date for the annual meeting of stockholders which supplemented notice shall be provided not later than ten (10) days after such record date.
Exchange Act
 
(iii) The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish additional information as may be reasonably required to determine the qualifications of such person to serve as a director of the Corporation; including, but not limited to, such information as the Corporation may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understating of independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee. No person shall be eligible for election as a Director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.03(c). If the chairman of an annual meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
. Whenever a meeting of stockholders, annual or special, is adjourned to another date, time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the date, time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat. At the adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
SECTION 2.04.
Adjournments
. At each meeting of stockholders, except where otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote on a matter at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. For purposes of the foregoing, where a separate vote by class or classes is required for any matter, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or classes, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum to take action with respect to that vote on that matter. Two or more classes or series of stock shall be considered a single class if the holders thereof are entitled to vote together as a single class at the meeting. In the absence of a quorum of the holders of any class of stock entitled to vote on a matter, the meeting of such class may be adjourned from time to time in the manner provided by these Bylaws until a quorum of such class shall be so present or represented. Shares of its own capital stock belonging on the record date for the meeting to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of Directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
SECTION 2.05.
Quorum
 
. The Chairman of the Board shall act as chairman at all meetings of stockholders at which he or she is present, and as such chairman shall call such meetings of stockholders to order and preside thereat. If the Chairman of the Board shall be absent from any meeting of stockholders, the duties otherwise provided in this Section 2.06 to be performed by him or her at such meeting, shall be performed at such meeting by a chairman designated by the Board, or in the absence of such designation, by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all meetings of the stockholders, but in his or her absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person present to act as secretary of the meeting.
SECTION 2.06.
Organization
. Prior to any meeting of stockholders, the Board, or a Chairman of the Board designated by the Board, shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at such meeting and make a written report thereof and may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at the meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, determine the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, count all votes and ballots, determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors and certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons to assist them in the performance of their duties. The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxy or vote, nor any revocation thereof or change thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted therewith, any information provided by a stockholder who submits a proxy by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission from which it can be determined that the proxy was authorized by the stockholder, ballots and the regular books and record of the Corporation, and they may also consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for such purpose, they shall, at the time they make their certification, specify the precise information considered by them, including the person or persons from whom they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
SECTION 2.07.
Inspectors of Elections
. The Board may fix a date not more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days prior to the date of any meeting of stockholders, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting and any adjournment thereof, and in such case such stockholders and only such stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such
SECTION 2.08.
Fixing of Record Date
 
meeting and any adjournment thereof, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after any such record date fixed as aforesaid. No record date shall precede the date on which the Board establishes such record date. The Secretary shall prepare and make or cause to be prepared and made, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of each such stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each such stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place, specified in the notice of the meeting, within the city where the meeting is to be held, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. Such list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and subject to the inspection of any stockholder who may be present.
. (a) . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder which has voting power upon the matter in question. If the Certificate of Incorporation provides for more or less than one vote for any share on any matter, every reference in these Bylaws to a majority or other proportion of shares of stock shall refer to such majority or other proportion of the votes of such shares of stock. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power, regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or an interest in the Corporation generally. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with a Secretary. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot unless so directed by the chairman of the meeting or the Board.
SECTION 2.09.
Voting; Proxies
General
(b) . Each nominee for Director shall be elected to the Board of Directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election; provided, however, that Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for Directors set forth in Article II, Section 2.03(c) of these Bylaws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the tenth day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. If Directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, stockholders shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee.
Election of Directors
 
(c) . In all other matters, unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
Other Action by Stockholders
(d) . Where a separate vote by class or classes is required, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or classes present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting shall be the act of such class or classes, except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Separate Class Vote
. The stockholders may not take any action without a duly called meeting of the stockholders.
SECTION 2.10.
Action by Stockholders Without a Meeting
. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, and subject to the provisions of Sections 3.12, 3.13 and 3.14 of this Article III, Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders to serve until the annual meeting of stockholders in the third year following their election and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal.
SECTION 3.01.
Election and Term
. The number of Directors may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board but shall not be less than three (3) nor more than twelve (12).
SECTION 3.02.
Number
. The business, properties and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by, or under the direction of, the Board, which, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall have power to elect and appoint officers of the Corporation, to appoint and direct agents, to grant general or limited authority to officers, employees and agents of the Corporation to make, execute and deliver contracts and other instruments and documents in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and over its seal, without specific authority in each case, and, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole Board, to appoint committees of the Board in addition to those appointed pursuant to Article IV hereof, the membership of which may consist of one or more Directors, and which may advise the Board with respect to any matters relating to the conduct of the Corporation's business. The Board may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee, including those appointed pursuant to Article IV hereof, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In addition, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Corporation and do all lawful acts and things which are not reserved to the stockholders by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation.
SECTION 3.03.
General Powers
. Meetings of the Board may be held at any place, within or without the State of Delaware, from time to time as designated by the Board.
SECTION 3.04.
Place of Meetings
 
. A newly elected Board shall meet and organize, and also may transact any other business which might be transacted at a regular meeting thereof, as soon as practicable after each annual meeting of stockholders, at the place at which such meeting of stockholders took place, without notice of such meeting, provided a majority of the whole Board is present. If such a majority is not present, such organizational meeting may be held at any other time or place which may be specified in a notice given in the manner provided in Section 3.07 of this Article III for special meetings of the Board, or in a waiver of notice thereof.
SECTION 3.05.
Organization Meeting
. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as may be determined by resolution of the Board and no notice shall be required for any regular meeting. Except as otherwise provided by law, any business may be transacted at any regular meeting of the Board.
SECTION 3.06.
Regular Meetings
. Special meetings of the Board shall be called by the Secretary on the request of the Chairman of the Board or the President, or on the request in writing of any three other Directors stating the purpose or purposes of such meeting. Notice of any special meeting shall be in form approved by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be. Notices of special meetings shall be mailed to each Director, addressed to him at his residence or usual place of business, not later than two (2) days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to him at such place by telegraph, cable or other form of recorded communication or be delivered personally or by telephone or electronic transmission, not later than the day before such day of meeting. Notice of any meeting of the Board need not be given to any Director if he shall sign a written waiver thereof either before or after the time stated therein, or if he shall attend a meeting, except when he attends such meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any special meeting of the Board need be specified in any notice or written waiver of notice unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or by the Bylaws. Unless limited by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by the Bylaws, any and all business may be transacted at any special meeting.
SECTION 3.07.
Special Meetings; Notice and Waiver of Notice
. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board at which he or she is present. If the Chairman of the Board shall be absent from any meeting of the Board, the duties otherwise provided in this Section 3.08 of Article III to be performed by him or her at such meeting shall be performed at such meeting by the Director chosen by a majority of the other Directors who are present. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as the secretary at all meetings of the Board, and in his or her absence a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
SECTION 3.08.
Organization of Meetings
 
. Except as otherwise provided by Section 3.05 of this Article III, at every meeting of the Board a majority of the total number of Directors constituting the whole Board shall constitute a quorum but in no event shall a quorum be constituted by less than two (2) Directors. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by Section 3.14 of this Article III, or by Section 4.01 or Section 4.08 of Article IV, or by Article IX, the act of a majority of the Directors present at any such meeting, at which a quorum is present, shall be the act of the Board. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn any meeting, from time to time, until a quorum is present. No notice of any adjourned meeting need be given other than by announcement at the meeting that is being adjourned. Members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board or of such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation by a member of the Board in a meeting pursuant to this Section 3.09 of Article III shall constitute his presence in person at such meeting.
SECTION 3.09.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
. On any question on which the Board shall vote, the names of those voting and their votes shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting if any member of the Board so requests at the time.
SECTION 3.10.
Voting
. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if prior to such action all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or the committee.
SECTION 3.11.
Action Without a Meeting
. Any Director may resign at any time upon written notice of resignation to the Corporation. Any resignation shall be effective immediately unless a date certain is specified for it to take effect, in which event it shall be effective upon such date, and acceptance of any resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective, irrespective of whether the resignation is tendered subject to such acceptance.
SECTION 3.12.
Resignations
. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, no Director may be removed except both for cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the votes cast for and against the removal by the holders of shares of stock of the Corporation present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors, voting together as a single class.
SECTION 3.13.
Removal of Directors
. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, any vacancies in the Board for any reason, including by reason of any increase in the number of Directors, shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of the class in which such vacancy occurs, be filled only by the Board, acting by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Directors then in office, although less than a quorum, and any Directors so elected shall hold office until the next election of the class for which such Directors have been elected and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
SECTION 3.14.
Vacancies
 
. Any and all Directors may receive such reasonable compensation for their services as such, whether in the form of salary, a fixed fee for attendance at meetings or otherwise, with expenses, if any, as the Board may from time to time determine. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
SECTION 3.15.
Directors' Compensation
. The Board may, by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board, appoint one or more committees of the Board, which committees shall have such powers and duties as the Board shall properly determine. Unless otherwise provided by the Board, no such other committee of the Board shall be composed of fewer than three (3) Directors.
SECTION 4.01.
Constitution and Powers
. Meetings of any committee of the Board may be held at any place, within or without the State of Delaware, from time to time designated by the Board or such committee.
SECTION 4.02.
Place of Meetings
. Regular meetings of any committee of the Board shall be held at such times as may be determined by resolution either of the Board or of such committee and no notice shall be required for any regular meeting. Special meetings of any committee shall be called by the secretary thereof upon request of any two members thereof. Notice of any special meeting of any committee shall be in form approved by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be. Notices of special meetings shall be mailed to each member, addressed to him at his residence or usual place of business, not later than two (2) days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to him at such place by telegraph, cable or any other form of recorded communication, or be delivered personally or by telephone or electronic transmission, not later than the day before such day of meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any special meeting of any committee, need be specified in any notice or waiver of notice unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws. Notices of any such meeting need not be given to any member of any committee, however, if waived by him as provided in Section 3.07 of Article III, and the provisions of such Section 3.07 with respect to waiver of notice of meetings of the Board shall apply to meetings of any committee as well.
SECTION 4.03.
Meetings; Notice and Waiver of Notice
. The most senior officer of the Corporation present, if any be members of the committee, and, if not, the Director present who has served the longest as a Director, except as otherwise expressly provided by the Board or the committee, shall preside at all meetings of any committee. The Secretary of the Corporation, except as otherwise expressly provided by the Board, shall act as secretary at all meetings of any committee and in his absence a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
SECTION 4.04.
Organization of Meetings
 
. A majority of the members of any committee then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, shall be the act of such committee. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the members of any committee present, or, if two or fewer members shall be present, any member of the committee present or the Secretary, may adjourn any meeting, from time to time, until a quorum is present. No notice of any adjourned meeting need be given other than by announcement at the meeting that is being adjourned. The provisions of Section 3.09 of Article III with respect to participation in a meeting of a committee of the Board and the provisions of Section 3.11 of Article III with respect to action taken by a committee of the Board without a meeting shall apply to participation in meetings of and action taken by any committee.
SECTION 4.05.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
. On any question on which any committee shall vote, the names of those voting and their votes shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting if any member of such committee so requests.
SECTION 4.06.
Voting
. All committees shall keep minutes of their acts and proceedings, which shall be submitted at the next regular meeting of the Board unless sooner submitted at an organization or special meeting of the Board, and any action taken by the Board with respect thereto shall be entered in the minutes of the Board.
SECTION 4.07.
Records
. Any vacancy among the appointed members or alternate members of any committee of the Board may be filled by affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board.
SECTION 4.08.
Vacancies
. Members of all committees may receive such reasonable compensation for their services as such, whether in the form of salary, a fixed fee for attendance at meetings or otherwise, with expenses, if any, as the Board may from time to time determine. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any member of any committee from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
SECTION 4.09.
Members' Compensation
. In the event that a quorum of the Board cannot readily be convened as a result of emergency conditions following a catastrophe or disaster, then all the powers and duties vested in the Board shall vest automatically in an Emergency Management Committee which shall consist of all readily available members of the Board and which Committee shall have and may exercise all of the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation. Two members shall constitute a quorum. Other provisions of these Bylaws notwithstanding, the Emergency Management Committee shall call a meeting of the Board as soon as circumstances permit, for the purpose of filling vacancies on the Board and its committees and to take such other action as may be appropriate. The powers of the Emergency Management Committee shall terminate upon the convening of the meeting of the Board above prescribed at which a majority of the members thereof shall be present.
SECTION 4.10.
Emergency Management Committee
 
. The Board shall take such action as may be necessary from time to time to ensure that the Corporation has such officers as are necessary, under this Section 5.01 and the Delaware General Corporation Law as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended, to enable it to sign stock certificates.
SECTION 5.01.
Officers; Election or Appointment
. Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board electing or authorizing the appointment of any officer, each officer shall hold office until his or her successor is elected or appointed and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board or to such person or persons as the Board may designate. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and unless otherwise specified therein no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. The Board may remove any officer with or without cause at any time. Any officer authorized by the Board to appoint a person to hold an office of the Corporation may also remove such person from such office with or without cause at any time, unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board providing such authorization. Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation, but the election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contractual rights. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled by the Board at any regular or special meeting or by an officer authorized by the Board to appoint a person to hold such office.
SECTION 5.02.
Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies
. The officers of the Corporation shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Corporation as shall be stated in these Bylaws or in a resolution of the Board which is not inconsistent with these Bylaws and, to the extent not so stated, as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the Board. A Secretary or such other officer appointed to do so by the Board shall have the duty to record the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board and any committees in a book to be kept for that purpose. The Board may require any officer, agent or employee to give security for the faithful performance of his or her duties.
SECTION 5.03.
Powers and Duties
. There shall be an Executive Management Committee of the Corporation, the members of which shall consist of the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer and such other officers of the Corporation as the Board may determine from time to time. The Executive Management Committee shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, insofar as it pertains to capital expenditures and acquisitions, as the Board may determine.
SECTION 5.04.
Executive Management Committee
 
. (a) The shares of stock in the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of the Corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to any such shares represented by a certificate theretofore issued until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution or resolutions by the Board of the Corporation, every holder of stock represented by certificates, and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President, and by a Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, representing the number of shares of stock in the Corporation owned by such holder. If such certificate is manually signed by one or more officers or manually countersigned by a transfer agent or by a registrar, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation may bear such legends regarding restrictions on transfer or other matters as any officer or officers of the Corporation may determine to be appropriate and lawful.
SECTION 6.01.
Stock Certificates; Uncertificated Shares
(b) If the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, provided that, except as otherwise required by law, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of such class or series of stock and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares of any class or series of stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required by law to be set forth or stated on certificates representing shares of such class or series or a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of such class or series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
(c) Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
. Subject to any restrictions on transfer and unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, shares of stock may be transferred only on the books of the Corporation, if such shares are certificated, by the surrender to the Corporation or its transfer agent of the certificate therefore properly endorsed or accompanied by a written assignment or power of attorney properly executed, with transfer stamps (if necessary) affixed, or upon proper instructions from the holder of uncertificated shares, in each case with such proof of the authenticity of signature as the Corporation or its transfer agent may reasonably require.
SECTION 6.02.
Transfers of Stock
. In case any certificate of stock shall be lost, stolen or destroyed, the Board, in its discretion, or any officer or officers thereunto duly authorized by the Board, may authorize the issue of a substitute certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in place of the certificate so lost, stolen or destroyed; provided, however, that, in each such case, the applicant for a substitute certificate or uncertificated shares shall furnish evidence to the Corporation, which it determines in its discretion is satisfactory, of the loss, theft or destruction of such certificate and of the ownership thereof, and also such security or indemnity as may be required by it.
SECTION 6.03.
Lost Certificates
. In order to determine the stockholders or other holders of securities entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock or other securities or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, not more than sixty (60) days prior to the date of payment of such dividend or other distribution or allotment of such rights or the date when any such rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or securities may be exercised, and in such case only holders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to receive payment of such dividend or other distribution or to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock or other securities on the books of the Corporation after any such record date fixed as aforesaid. No record date shall precede the date on which the Board establishes such record date.
SECTION 6.04.
Determination of Holders of Record for Certain Purposes
. The Board may provide a suitable Seal containing the name of the Corporation.
SECTION 7.01.
Seal
. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of the Secretary, who shall have power to affix it to the proper corporate instruments and documents, and who shall attest it. In his absence, it may be affixed and attested by an Assistant Secretary, or by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or by any other person or persons as may be designated by the Board.
SECTION 7.02.
Affixing and Attesting
 
. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the thirtieth day of September of each year unless changed by resolution of the Board.
SECTION 8.01.
Fiscal Year
. All bills, notes, checks or other instruments for the payment of money shall be signed or countersigned by such officers or agents and in such manner as, from time to time, may be prescribed by resolution (whether general or special) of the Board, or may be prescribed by any officer or officers, or any officer and agent jointly, thereunto duly authorized by the Board.
SECTION 8.02.
Signatures on Negotiable Instruments
. The President, or, in his absence or his disability, any Vice President, may authorize, from time to time, the execution and issuance of proxies to vote shares of stock or other securities of other corporations held of record by the Corporation and the execution of consents to action taken or to be taken by any such corporation. All such proxies and consents, unless otherwise authorized by the Board, shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman, the President or any Vice President.
SECTION 8.03.
Execution of Proxies
. Whenever in the Bylaws reference is made to an Article or Section number, such reference is to the number of an Article or Section of the Bylaws. Whenever in the Bylaws reference is made to the Bylaws, such reference is to these Bylaws of the Corporation, as amended, and whenever reference is made to the Certificate of Incorporation, such reference is to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, including all documents deemed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware to constitute a part thereof.
SECTION 8.04.
References to Article and Section Numbers and to the Bylaws and the Certificate of Incorporation
. The Bylaws may be adopted, altered, amended or repealed, at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, duly called and upon proper notice thereof, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast for and against the adoption, alteration, amendment or repeal by the holders of shares of stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the adoption, alteration, amendment or repeal or by the Board at any valid meeting by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board, provided that in the case of a special meeting of stockholders, notice of such proposed adoption, alteration, amendment or repeal must be included in the notice of meeting.
SECTION 9.01.
Amendments

Exhibit 99.1
 At the AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) annual meeting of stockholders, held today in Philadelphia, Company stockholders re-elected three directors: Richard W. Gochnauer, Edward E. Hagenlocker and Henry W. McGee. Stockholders also ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2010 and approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's certificate of incorporation to replace all supermajority vote requirements with a majority vote requirement.
PHILADELPHIA, PA, March 4, 2010
During the meeting, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer, R. David Yost, gave an overview of the Company's activities and reaffirmed the Company's expectations for fiscal year 2010.
"AmerisourceBergen continues to expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal year 2010 to be in a range of $1.89 to $1.98, which represents an increase of 12 percent to 17 percent over the $1.69 in fiscal year 2009," said Yost. "Also unchanged are our key assumptions supporting this diluted earnings per share range, which are: revenue growth of between 7 percent and 8 percent; operating margin expansion in the low to mid single digit basis point range; and free cash flow in the range of $500 million to $575 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $140 million range. Assumptions also include the expected repurchase of approximately $350 million of AmerisourceBergen common shares in fiscal 2010."
Mr. Gochnauer, 60, has been a member of the Board of Directors since September 2008. He has been President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director of United Stationers Inc., a wholesale distributor of business products, since 2002, and served as Chief Operating Officer from July to December 2002. He was President and Chief Operating Officer and Vice Chairman and President, International, of Golden State Foods Corporation from 1994 to 2002. He currently is a Director of Golden State Foods Corporation.
 
Mr. Hagenlocker, 70, has been a member of the AmerisourceBergen Board of Directors since the Company's inception in 2001. Prior to that, he was a director of AmeriSource Health Corporation from 1999 to 2001. He was Vice Chairman of Ford Motor Company from 1996 until his retirement in 1999 and Chairman of Visteon Automotive Systems from 1997 to 1999. He also served as President of Ford Automotive Operations from 1994 to 1996 and Chairman of Ford of Europe in 1996. Mr. Hagenlocker is also a Director of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited.
Mr. McGee, 57, has been an AmerisourceBergen Director since 2004, and since 1995 has been President of HBO Home Entertainment, a distributor of videos and DVDs and a unit of Home Box Office, Inc. He has held a variety of other positions with Home Box Office, Inc., Time Warner, Inc. (parent of Home Box Office) and their predecessors since 1979. He is President of the Alvin Ailey Dance Foundation, Inc.
The AmerisourceBergen Board of Directors is comprised of eight members, all of whom are independent directors, except President and Chief Executive Officer, R. David Yost.
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $70 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #26 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; qui tam litigation for alleged violations of laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting
 
pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes within AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation's operations and our corporate functions without operating problems and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for this Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2009 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


