FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20110428085326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2011, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In the news release issued on April 28, 2011, the Registrant increased its expectations for fiscal year 2011 diluted earnings per share to a range of $2.41 to $2.49. Key assumptions supporting the fiscal year 2011 diluted earnings per share range are: revenue growth of between 2 percent and 4 percent; operating margin expansion in the mid to high single digit basis points range; and free cash flow in the high end of the range of $625 million to $700 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $175 million range. The Registrant also announced an increase in its expectations regarding repurchases of its common stock in fiscal year 2011. The Registrant announced that, subject to market conditions, it expects to repurchase approximately $598 million of its common shares in fiscal year 2011.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed as part of this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2011 second quarter, ended March 31, 2011, diluted earnings per share were $0.77, a 22 percent increase. Revenue in the quarter was $19.8 billion, up 2 percent. The Company also increased its expectations for fiscal year 2011 diluted earnings per share to a range of $2.41 to $2.49 from its previous range of $2.31 to $2.41. All the results are presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
VALLEY FORGE, PA, April 28, 2011 
Fiscal Second Quarter Highlights
Fiscal First Six Months Highlights
"In the March quarter, we delivered outstanding performance on top of very strong performance last year," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen Chief Executive Officer. "During the quarter, we announced that I will retire from the Company on July 1, 2011, my 64 birthday, and that Steve Collis, currently President and Chief Operating Officer, will succeed me as CEO on that date. The transition is progressing smoothly, and I have the utmost confidence that with Steve's leadership, AmerisourceBergen will take full advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead."
th
 
"We are extremely pleased with our performance in the first half of our fiscal year," said Collis. "Solid results in all of our business units, combined with better than expected contributions from specialty generics drove results ahead of expectations. Our disciplined working capital management has further strengthened our balance sheet, and we continue to have excellent financial flexibility. Our results continue to demonstrate the strength of our two growth drivers  generics and specialty pharmaceuticals."
Results Highlights
 
Fiscal Year 2011 Expectations
"Looking ahead, the Company now expects diluted earnings per share in fiscal year 2011 to be in the range of $2.41 to $2.49," said R. David Yost, AmerisourceBergen Chief Executive Officer. "The key assumptions supporting the diluted earnings per share range for fiscal year 2011 are: we continue to expect revenue growth of between 2 percent and 4 percent; we now expect operating margin expansion in the mid to high single digit basis points range; and free cash flow is now expected to be in the high end of the range of $625 million to $700 million, which includes capital expenditures now expected to be in the $175 million range. We have increased our share repurchase expectation for fiscal year 2011 to $598 million from the original expectation of $400 million for the year, subject to market conditions."
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on April 28, 2011. Participating in the conference call will be: R. David Yost, Chief Executive Officer; Steven H. Collis, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 
To access the live conference call via telephone:
Dial in: The dial-in number for the live call will be 210-234-0010. The access code for the call is ABC.
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 2:30 p.m. April 28, 2011 until 11:59 p.m. May 5, 2011. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the replay via telephone:
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With $79 billion in annualized revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #24 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in federal and state legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to continue to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation operations and our corporate functions as intended without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including changes and/or potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2010 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
qui tam
 
 
 
 


