FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20111214122155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
AmerisourceBergen Corporation ("Registrant") will hold its annual Investor Day Meeting in New York City on December 14, 2011 at 12:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. The time, date and webcast availability of the Investor Day Meeting were previously announced in a news release issued by the Registrant on December 1, 2011.
In a news release, issued on December 14, 2011, the Registrant announced that it will reaffirm its previous fiscal year 2012 earnings guidance at its Investor Day Meeting to be held in New York. The Registrant continues to expect diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2012 to be in a range of $2.74 to $2.84. The Registrant will also reaffirm the key assumptions supporting the diluted earnings per share range for fiscal year 2012, including: flat to modest revenue growth; operating margin growth in the high single-digit to low double-digit basis points range; and free cash flow in the range of $700 million to $800 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $150 million range. Subject to market conditions, the Registrant expects to spend approximately $400 million to repurchase its common shares in fiscal year 2012.
The news release issued on December 14, 2011 is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and the slides that the Registrant will present at the Investor Day Meeting are filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report. Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 News Release, dated December 14, 2011, regarding Registrant's guidance for fiscal year 2012.
99.2 Slides for Investor Day Meeting held on December 14, 2011.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today will reaffirm its previous fiscal year 2012 guidance at its Investor Day Meeting in New York City. The Company is hosting a webcast of the meeting today beginning at 12:30 pm Eastern Standard Time.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, December 14, 2011 
The Company continues to expect diluted earnings per share in fiscal year 2012 to be in the range of $2.74 to $2.84, an 8 percent to 12 percent increase over fiscal 2011. Also unchanged are the assumptions supporting the diluted earnings per share range for fiscal year 2012, including: flat to modest revenue growth; operating margin growth in the high single-digit to low double-digit basis points range; and free cash flow in the range of $700 million to $800 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $150 million range. Subject to market conditions, the Company expects to spend approximately $400 million to repurchase its common shares in fiscal year 2012.
AmerisourceBergen will webcast its Investor Day Meeting today beginning at 12:30 pm Eastern Standard Time through approximately 3:30 pm. Participating in the meeting will be: Steven H. Collis, President and Chief Executive Officer; Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; David W. Neu, President, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, James D. Frary, President, AmerisourceBergen Specialty Distribution and Services; Peyton R. Howell, President, AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services; and Antonio R. Pera, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Management. To access the live webcast, go to the Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at . A replay of the webcast will be available for 30 days.
www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $80 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 11,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #27 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
About AmerisourceBergen
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in federal and state legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to continue to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation operations and our corporate functions as intended without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including changes and/or potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax laws or legislative initiatives that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
qui tam

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


