FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20110701141110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) As previously announced by AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the Registrant), R. David Yost, age 63, has retired as the Registrants President and Chief Executive Officer, effective as of July 1, 2011. In connection with his planned retirement from the Registrant, Mr. Yost has also resigned as a member of the Registrants Board of Directors, effective as of July 1, 2011. The Registrants Board of Directors is currently comprised of nine members.
(c) As previously announced by the Registrant, the Registrants Board of Directors has appointed Steven H. Collis, age 50, as the President and Chief Executive Officer of AmerisourceBergen Corporation, effective as of July 1, 2011. Prior to his promotion to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Collis served as the Registrants President and Chief Operating Officer from November 2010 to June 2011, and Executive Vice President of the Registrant and President of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, from September 2009 to November 2010. Mr. Collis served as Executive Vice President of the Registrant and President, AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group from September 2007 to September 2009 and was Senior Vice President of the Registrant and President, AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group from August 2001 to September 2007. Mr. Collis has been employed by the Registrant or one of its predecessors since 1994.
Mr. Collis, who was appointed to the Registrants Board of Directors in May 2011, will assume the Chair of the Registrants Executive and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors, effective as of July 1, 2011.
  A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant regarding the matters described above is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
  (d)    Exhibits.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 News Release, dated July 1, 2011, regarding the appointment of Steven H. Collis as the President and Chief Executive Officer of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and other matters.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 1, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Barbara Brungess
 610-727-7199; 800-829-3132, ext 7199
 
bbrungess@amerisourcebergen.com
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC), in accordance with its previously announced succession plan, today announced that Steven H. Collis, 50, has been appointed as the President and Chief Executive Officer of AmerisourceBergen Corporation. Collis succeeds R. David Yost, 63, who retired from his role as Chief Executive Officer and stepped down from the Companys Board of Directors, effective as of July 1, 2011.
VALLEY FORGE, Pa. July 1, 2011
On behalf of our entire Company, I thank Dave for his 37 years of extraordinary service to AmerisourceBergen, and for his gracious support during the leadership transition, said Collis. I am both humbled and honored to be the leader of such a high-performing Company. I believe with our momentum, our position in growing markets, our talented and seasoned management team, and our dedication to efficiency and innovative customer service, we will continue to drive success by growing our business and providing value to our customers, suppliers, shareholders and our associates.
I congratulate Steve on his well-deserved promotion to President and Chief Executive Officer of AmerisourceBergen, said Richard C. Gozon, Chairman of the Board of AmerisourceBergen. Steves demonstrated leadership, his deep knowledge of the industry, and his commitment to excellence have given the Board every confidence that the Company will continue to deliver the outstanding performance that AmerisourceBergen stakeholders have come to expect.
Collis previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer, responsible for all AmerisourceBergen business units including AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation (ABDC), AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group (ABSG), AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services (ABCS), and AmerisourceBergen Packaging Group (ABPG). Before being promoted to that position in November 2010, Collis was Executive Vice President of AmerisourceBergen and President of ABDC, the Companys largest subsidiary with revenues over $60 billion. Over his 17 year tenure with the Company, Collis was the driving force behind growing and developing ABSG into the market-leader it is today, with $16 billion in annualized revenues.
The Companys Board of Directors currently consists of nine members, including Collis, who was elected to serve on the Board in May 2011.
 
AmerisourceBergen is one of the worlds largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergens service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With $79 billion in annualized revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #27 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
About AmerisourceBergen
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in federal and state legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to continue to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation operations and our corporate functions as intended without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including changes and/or potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2010 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
qui tam


