FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20110405170456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On April 4, 2011, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release announcing that the Company has named David W. Neu, 53, as President of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation ("ABDC"), the Company's largest operating unit, effective immediately. Mr. Neu has been with the Company for 29 years and was most recently Senior Vice President, Operations for ABDC. Mr. Neu will continue to report to Steven Collis, currently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and recently named to succeed David Yost as Chief Executive Officer upon Mr. Yost's retirement on July 1, 2011.
The news release issued on April 4, 2011 is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 News Release, dated April 4, 2011, regarding the appointment of David W. Neu as President of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today announced that David W. Neu, 53, has been promoted to President of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation (ABDC), the Company's largest operating unit, effective immediately. Neu, a 29 year veteran of the Company, was most recently Senior Vice President, Operations for ABDC. The role of President of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation was previously held by Steven Collis, currently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and recently named to succeed David Yost as Chief Executive Officer upon Yost's retirement on July 1, 2011. In his new role, Neu will continue to report to Steven Collis.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, April 4, 2011
"Throughout his tenure at AmerisourceBergen, Dave has held several leadership roles within ABDC, and he has been instrumental in both guiding its recent success, and positioning it for future growth," said Steven Collis. "Dave's commitment to customers, suppliers, and associates and his experience leading both sales and operational efforts will enable him to continue to drive value for all of our stakeholders, and to take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead."
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With $78 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #24 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in federal and state legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to continue to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation operations and our corporate functions as intended without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including changes and/or potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2010 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
qui tam


