FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20110927142515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On September 27, 2011, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing that it has signed a definitive agreement to purchase TheraCom, LLC, a subsidiary of CVS Caremark Corporation, for $250 million, subject to customary working capital adjustments. TheraCom, LLC provides a wide range of support to pharmaceutical and biotechnology drug manufacturers, including consulting and reimbursement services. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of the Registrant's fiscal year 2012, which ends December 31, 2011. TheraCom, LLC will join the Lash Group as part of AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services.
The news release issued on September 27, 2011 is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1   News Release, dated September 27, 2011, regarding AmerisourceBergen Corporations agreement to acquire TheraCom, LLC.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION
Date: September 27, 2011
By: Name: Michael D. DiCandilo Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
s/ Michael D. DiCandilo                            
/

Exhibit 99.1
AmerisourceBergen Corporation
News Release
P.O. Box 959 Valley Forge, PA 19482
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to purchase TheraCom, LLC, a subsidiary of CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS) that provides a wide range of support to pharmaceutical and biotechnology drug manufacturers including consulting and reimbursement services, for $250 million. The purchase price is subject to customary working capital adjustments. The acquisition is expected to be neutral to the Companys fiscal year 2012 earnings, and slightly accretive in fiscal 2013. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, which ends December 31, 2011.
VALLEY FORGE, PA, September 27, 2011 
TheraCom is a leading provider of commercialization support services to the biotech and pharmaceutical industry, specifically providing reimbursement and patient access support services, and will join Lash Group as part of AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services (ABCS). The acquisition of TheraCom will significantly increase the size and scope of our consulting services offering and meaningfully expands our reimbursement, adherence and patient access services for pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers, said Steven H. Collis, AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Executive Officer. The addition of TheraComs capabilities to our market-leading consulting services will provide our manufacturer customers with enhanced solutions to meet the challenges in the changing healthcare landscape, and will help ensure even greater patient access to medication therapies.
TheraComs customized solutions and high touch service model complement ABCSs existing services and expand the groups pharmacy benefit reimbursement capabilities. Together, Lash Group and TheraCom will offer an extensive platform of services and solutions to support the growing demand for patient access and reimbursement services, and support the need for unique distribution solutions. TheraComs annualized revenues are approximately $700 million, the majority of which are provided by the specialized distribution component of the integrated reimbursement support services for certain unique prescription products.
 
News Release
AmerisourceBergen is one of the worlds largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergens service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With $80 billion in annualized revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 10,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #27 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
About AmerisourceBergen
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in federal and state legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to continue to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation operations and our corporate functions as intended without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including changes and/or potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax laws or legislative initiatives that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-Looking Statements
qui tam


