FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20121121130809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item. 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On November 16, 2012, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") entered into a Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2012, among Amerisource Receivables Financial Corporation ("ARFC"), as Seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation ("ABDC"), as Servicer, the Purchasing Agents and Purchasers party thereto and Bank of America, National Association, as Administrator to extend the maturity date of its $700 million accounts receivables securitization facility to November 16, 2015.
 
The securitization facility is available to provide additional liquidity and funding for the ongoing business needs of the Registrant and its subsidiaries. The securitization facility is based on the accounts receivables originated by ABDC for the sale of pharmaceuticals and other related services. Pursuant to the securitization facility, ABDC sells its accounts receivables to ARFC. ARFC may sell interests in the accounts receivables purchased from ABDC to the various purchaser groups party to the securitization facility, paying interest on amounts outstanding under the facility. Bank of America, National Association, serves as the administrator of the securitization facility. The securitization facility has a base limit of $700 million, with an option to increase the commitments of the participating banks, subject to their approval, by an additional $250 million for seasonal needs during the December and March quarters. The Registrant serves as the performance guarantor of ABDC's obligations as originator and servicer under the securitization facility.
 
Item 9.01.
                                       
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
 
10.1            The Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2012, among Amerisource Receivables Financial Corporation, as Seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as Servicer, the Purchasing Agents and Purchasers party thereto and Bank of America, National Association, as Administrator.
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
THIS THIRD AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of November 16, 2012 (this "") is entered into among AMERISOURCE RECEIVABLES FINANCIAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (in such capacity, the ""), AMERISOURCEBERGEN DRUG CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, as the initial Servicer (in such capacity, the ""), the PURCHASER AGENTS and PURCHASERS listed on the signature pages hereto, and BANK OF AMERICA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (""), a national banking association, as administrator (in such capacity, the "").
Amendment
Seller
Servicer
Bank of America
Administrator
 
The Seller, Servicer, the Purchaser Groups, and the Administrator are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2010 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "").
Agreement
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
 
1.  .  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in to the Agreement.
Certain Defined Terms
Exhibit I
 
2.  .  As of the Effective Date (as defined below), the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to the Agreement
 
(i)
                                    
The notice information for the Administrator and Bank of America where it appears below the name of such Person on the signature pages to the Agreement is replaced in its entirety with the following:
 
Bank of America, National Association 214 North Tryon Street, 15
th
 Floor NC1-027-15-01 Charlotte, North Carolina 28255 Attention:  Nina Austin, Securitization Finance Telephone:  (980) 388-3539
Facsimile:  (212) 548-8891
 
(ii)
                                 
Clause (d) and the sentence thereafter of the set forth in the definition of "Obligor Concentration Limit"
proviso
set forth on to the Agreement are replaced in their entirety with the following:
Exhibit I
 
(d) (i) subject to satisfaction of the Rating Agency Condition and an increase in the percentage set forth in of the definition of upon Seller's request from time to time, the Administrator and each Purchaser Agent may agree to a higher percentage
clause (a)(i)
"Required Reserve,"
 
of Eligible Receivables for a particular Obligor and its Affiliates (each such higher percentage, a ) and (ii) subject to satisfaction of the Rating Agency Condition, upon Seller's request from time to time, the Administrator and each Purchaser Agent may agree to a higher percentage of Eligible Receivables for an Exception Obligor and its Affiliates (each such higher percentage, an together with any Special Concentration Limit, each a "); it being understood that any Subject Concentration Limit may be cancelled by the Administrator or any Purchaser Agent upon not less than five (5) Business Days' written notice to the Seller.  For purposes of this , "Exception Obligor" means each of Walgreen Co. and Express Scripts Holding Company.As of November 16, 2012 (i) Walgreen Co. and Express Scripts Holding Company shall have an Exception Concentration Limit of 16.00% and 8.00%, respectively and (ii) Kaiser Permanente shall have a Special Concentration Limit of 4.90%.
"Special Concentration Limit"
"Exception Concentration Limit";
"
Subject Concentration Limit
clause (d)
 
 
(iii)
                              
Clause (a)
 of the definition of "Required Reserve Factor Floor"
set forth on to the Agreement is amended by replacing the percentage "18.75%" where it appears therein with the percentage "17.90%"
Exhibit I
.
 
(iv)
                             
The definition of "Scheduled Facility Termination Date" set forth on to the Agreement for any Group Commitment (or portion thereof) is replaced in its entirety with the following:
Exhibit I
 
"" means, for any Group Commitment (or portion thereof), the "Scheduled Facility Termination Date" set forth therefor on the signature page to the Third Amendment to the Amended and Restated
Scheduled Facility Termination Date
Receivables
Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2012 (or in the applicable Assumption Agreement or Transfer Supplement).
 
(v)
                                
Exhibit VI
of the Agreement is replaced in its entirety with attached hereto.
Exhibit VI
 
3.
                                     
Representations and Warranties; Covenants
.  Each of the Seller and the Servicer (on behalf of the Seller) hereby certifies, represents and warrants to the Administrator, each Purchaser Agent and each Purchaser that on and as of the date hereof:
 
(i)
                                    
each of its representations and warranties contained in of the Agreement is true and correct, in all material respects, as if made on and as of the Effective Date;
Article V
 
(ii)
                                 
no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from this Amendment or any of the transactions contemplated herein, that constitutes an Amortization Event or Unmatured Amortization Event;
(iii)
                              
the Facility Termination Date for all Purchaser Groups has not occurred; and
 
(iv)
                             
the Credit Agreement has not been amended.
 
4.
                                     
Effect of Amendment
.  Except as expressly amended and modified by this Amendment, all provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.  After this Amendment becomes effective, all references in the Agreement and each of the other Transaction Documents to "this Agreement", "hereof", "herein", or words of similar effect referring to the Agreement shall be deemed to be references to the Agreement, as amended by this Amendment.  This Amendment shall not be deemed to expressly or impliedly waive, amend or supplement any provision of the Agreement (or any related document or agreement) other than as expressly set forth herein.
 
5.
                                     
Effectiveness
. This Amendment shall become effective on the date hereof (the "") upon satisfaction of each of the following conditions:
Effective Date
 
(a)
                                
receipt by the Administrator and each Purchaser Agent of counterparts of (i) this Amendment, (ii) the amended and restated Fee Letter, dated as of the date hereof, by and among the Seller, the Servicer, the Administrator and each Purchaser Agent and (iii) the Accordion Confirmation, dated as of the date hereof, by and among the Seller, the Servicer, the Administrator and each Purchaser Agent, in each case duly executed by each of the parties thereto;
 
(b)
                                
the Administrator, each Purchaser Agent and PNC Capital Markets LLC shall have received all accrued and unpaid fees, costs and expenses to the extent then due and payable to it or the Purchasers on the Effective Date; and
 
(c)
                                 
such other documents and instruments as a Purchaser Agent may reasonably request, in form and substance satisfactory to such Purchaser Agent.
 
6.
                                     
Counterparts
.  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties on separate counterparts, and each counterpart shall be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.  Counterparts of this Amendment may be delivered by facsimile transmission or other electronic transmission, and such counterparts shall be as effective as if original counterparts had been physically delivered, and thereafter shall be binding on the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
 
7.
                                     
Governing Law
.  This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York without regard to any otherwise applicable principles of conflicts of law (other than Sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the New York General Obligations Law).
8.
                                     
Section Headings
.  The various headings of this Amendment are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Amendment, the Agreement or any other Transaction Document or any provision hereof or thereof.
 
9.
                                     
Transaction Document
.  This Amendment shall constitute a Transaction Document under the Agreement.
 
10.
                              
Ratification
.
                           
After giving effect to this Amendment and the transactions contemplated hereby, all of the provisions of the Performance Undertaking shall remain in full force and effect and the Performance Guarantor hereby ratifies and affirms the Performance Undertaking and acknowledges that the Performance Undertaking has continued and shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
V.  Excess Concentration: (Calculation)
 
Eligible Receivables
 
 
 
The undersigned hereby represents and warrants that the foregoing is a true and accuarate accounting with respect to outstanding receivables as of                               accordance with the Receivables Purchase Agreement dated                                and that all representations and warranties related to such Agreement are restated and reaffirmed.
 
 
 


