FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20120126094553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2012, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 and announcing its corresponding earnings conference call. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
In the news release issued on January 26, 2012, the Registrant reaffirmed its expectations for fiscal year 2012 diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.74 to $2.84. Key assumptions supporting the 2012 diluted earnings per share range are: flat to modest revenue growth; operating margin growth in the high single-digit to low-double digit basis points range; and free cash flow in the range of $700 million to $800 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $150 million range. Subject to market conditions, the Registrant expects to repurchase approximately $400  million of its common shares in fiscal year 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
99.1 News Release, dated January 26, 2012, of AmerisourceBergen Corporation, regarding Registrant's earnings for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
610-727-7199
bbrungess@amerisourcebergen.com
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE:ABC) today reported that in its fiscal year 2012 first quarter, ended December 31, 2011, diluted earnings per share were $0.62, a 9 percent increase. Revenue in the quarter was $20.4 billion, up 2 percent. The Company also reaffirmed its expectations for fiscal year 2012 diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.74 to $2.84. All the results are presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
VALLEY FORGE, PA, January 26, 2012 
Fiscal First Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
"We are off to a good start in our fiscal year 2012, with December quarter results in line with our expectations, and excellent progress being made on the integration of our recent acquisitions," said Steven H. Collis, AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Executive Officer. "We continued to demonstrate expense and working capital discipline, and our balance sheet remains strong, giving us outstanding financial flexibility."
Results Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2012 Expectations
"Looking ahead, the Company continues to expect diluted earnings per share in fiscal year 2012 to be in the range of $2.74 to $2.84," said Steven H. Collis, AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Executive Officer. "Also unchanged are the assumptions supporting the expected diluted earnings per share range for fiscal year 2012, including: flat to modest revenue growth; operating margin growth in the high single-digit to low double-digit basis points range; and free cash flow in the range of $700 million to $800 million, which includes capital expenditures in the $150 million range. Subject to market conditions, we expect to spend approximately $400 million to repurchase our common shares in fiscal year 2012."
Conference Call
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on January 26, 2012. Participating in the conference call will be: Steven H. Collis, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Michael D. DiCandilo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To access the live conference call via telephone:
Dial in: The dial-in number for the live call will be 612-332-0226. No access code is needed.
To access the live webcast:
Go to the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
A replay of the telephone call and webcast will be available from 2:30 p.m. January 26, 2012 until 11:59 p.m. February 2, 2012. The Webcast replay will be available for 30 days.
To access the telephone replay from within the US, dial 800-475-6701. From outside the US, dial 320-365-3844. The access code for the replay is 231917.
 
 
To access the archived webcast:
Go to the Quarterly Webcasts section on the Investor Relations page at .
http://www.amerisourcebergen.com
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $80 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 11,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #27 on the Fortune 500 list, and #24 on the Bloomberg Businessweek 50. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in federal and state legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to continue to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation operations and our corporate functions as intended without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including changes and/or potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax laws or legislative initiatives that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
qui tam
 
 
 
 
 


