FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20120305120401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 1, 2012, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") held its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The items listed below were submitted to a vote of the stockholders through a solicitation of proxies. The proposals are described in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Each of the items was approved by the stockholders pursuant to the voting results set forth below.
Item 1- Election of Directors.
The following individuals were elected as directors to serve until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified. The voting results were as follows:
 
Item 2Ratification of Appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Registrant's Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal Year 2012.
The voting results were as follows:
 
Item 3Advisory Vote on the Compensation of the Registrant's Named Executive Officers.
The voting results were as follows:
 
 
In a news release, dated March 1, 2012, the Registrant announced the results of its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, including the election of four directors to serve for a one-year term and the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young as the Registrant's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2012.
The Registrant also announced the results of an advisory vote. Stockholders voted to approve the compensation of the Registrant's named executive officers. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
The following Exhibits are filed as part of this report:
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 At the AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) annual meeting of stockholders, held today in Philadelphia, Company stockholders re-elected four directors to serve for a one-year term: Steve H. Collis, Richard C. Gozon, Kathleen W. Hyle and Michael J. Long. Stockholders also ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2012.
PHILADELPHIA, PA, March 1, 2012
The Company also announced the results of an advisory vote in which stockholders approved the compensation of the Company's named executive officers as disclosed in the Company's 2012 proxy statement. The Company has previously announced that it will hold an annual advisory vote on the compensation of its executive officers.
During the meeting, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer, Steven H. Collis, gave an overview of the Company's activities and its results of operations from fiscal year 2011 and the first fiscal quarter of 2012.
The AmerisourceBergen Board of Directors is comprised of nine members, all of whom are independent directors, except President and Chief Executive Officer, Steven H. Collis. Detailed biographies for all board members are available in the Company's 2012 proxy statement and on its website at .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
 
About AmerisourceBergen
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from pharmacy automation and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $80 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 11,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #27 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to .
www.amerisourcebergen.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or services and any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in federal and state legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to continue to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation operations and our corporate functions as intended without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including changes and/or potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax laws or legislative initiatives that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
qui tam


