FILE:ABC/ABC-8K-20120516113321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02.               Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On May 11, 2012, AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") announced Tim G. Guttman has been appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective immediately. Mr. Guttman, 53, was previously serving as the Registrant's Acting Chief Financial Officer since February 13, 2012, and was Vice President and Corporate Controller since joining the Registrant in 2002.
 
Prior to joining the Registrant, Mr. Guttman was Vice President of Finance at Syncor International Corporation, and also previously held financial planning and managerial positions at Disney Consumer Products, Pizza Hut, Inc. and PepsiCo, Inc. He also spent several years with the accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche.
 
Mr. Guttman will receive a base salary of $500,000 in his position as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Guttman will be eligible to receive a target cash bonus of 100% of his base salary based upon the achievement of specified performance goals for fiscal year 2012 in accordance with the provisions of the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Annual Incentive Plan.
 
The news release issued on May 11, 2012 is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference
 
Item 8.01.               Other Events.
 
On May 10, 2012, the Registrant announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a new $750 million share repurchase program, effective immediately. The Registrant recently completed the last share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors on August 11, 2011. To date in fiscal year 2012, which ends September 30, 2012, the Registrant has spent approximately $500 million to repurchase its outstanding shares of common stock.
 
The news release issued on May 10, 2012 is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                             
Exhibits.
 
99.1             News Release, dated May 11, 2012, regarding the naming of Tim G. Guttman as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 
99.2             News Release, dated May 10, 2012, regarding a new $750 million share repurchase program.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact:
                                               
Barbara Brungess
610-727-7199
bbrungess@amerisourcebergen.com
 
VALLEY FORGE, PA, May 11, 2012 
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today announced that Tim G. Guttman, 53, has been named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective immediately.  Guttman will report to Steven H. Collis, AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer.  He had been serving as the Company's Acting Chief Financial Officer since February 13, 2012, and was Vice President and Corporate Controller since joining AmerisourceBergen in 2002.
 
"I am very pleased to appoint Tim to his new role," said Collis.  "Since he joined the Company 10 years ago, he has demonstrated his ability to drive financial discipline throughout the organization, and he has been an important partner in driving our operating performance.  He brings a thorough knowledge of our business as well as unique perspectives from other industries to our leadership team, and I am confident that he will continue to play a key role in our future success."
 
"I am excited to be taking this new role and to continue to help drive strong financial performance and deliver value to our shareholders," said Guttman.  "We have tremendous opportunities ahead, driven by the growth areas of the markets we serve, and the unique services we provide to manufacturers and healthcare providers.  In addition, our demonstrated expense and working capital discipline, as well as our strong balance sheet give us excellent financial flexibility."
 
Prior to joining AmerisourceBergen, Guttman was Vice President of Finance at Syncor International Corporation, and also previously held financial planning and managerial positions at Disney Consumer Products, Pizza Hut, Inc., and PepsiCo, Inc. He also spent seven years with the accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche.
 
Mr. Guttman graduated from The Ohio State University and earned his Master of Business Administration degree from The University of Texas.
 
The Company expects to fill the role of Corporate Controller internally.
About AmerisourceBergen
 
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from niche premium logistics and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $80 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 13,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #29 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or services and any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in federal and state legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to continue to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation operations as intended without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including changes and/or potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax laws or legislative initiatives that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
qui tam
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Contact:
                                               
Barbara Brungess
610-727-7199
bbrungess@amerisourcebergen.com
 
VALLEY FORGE, PA, May 10, 2012 
The Board of Directors of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (NYSE: ABC) today authorized a new $750 million share repurchase program, effective immediately.  The Company has completed its previous $750 million share repurchase program, which was authorized on August 11, 2011. 
AmerisourceBergen expects to use the new program to repurchase its outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions.  To date in fiscal year 2012, which ends September 30, 2012, the Company has spent $500.0 million to repurchase its outstanding shares of common stock.
 
"Our $500 million in share repurchases during this fiscal year and our new share repurchase program demonstrate our continued commitment to delivering long-term shareholder value," said Steven H. Collis, AmerisourceBergen President & Chief Executive Officer.
 
AmerisourceBergen may repurchase its shares from time to time for cash in open market transactions or by other means in accordance with applicable federal securities laws.  The Company currently has approximately 250.8 million common shares outstanding, and had previously said it expected to repurchase $500 million of its shares in fiscal 2012.
 
In addition, the Board of Directors today declared a cash dividend of $0.13 per share on Common Stock, payable June 4, 2012, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 21, 2012.
 
About AmerisourceBergen
 
AmerisourceBergen is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical services companies serving the United States, Canada and selected global markets. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Company provides drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. AmerisourceBergen's service solutions range from niche premium logistics and pharmaceutical packaging to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services. With more than $80 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen
is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 13,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #29 on the Fortune 500 list. For more information, go to www.amerisourcebergen.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain of the statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; litigation for alleged violations of fraud and abuse laws and regulations and/or any other laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products or services and any related litigation, including shareholder derivative lawsuits; changes in federal and state legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and/or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; greater or less than anticipated benefit from launches of the generic versions of previously patented pharmaceutical products; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to continue to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes and transactions (including processes and transactions relating to our customers and suppliers) of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation operations as intended without functional problems, unanticipated delays and/or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including changes and/or potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax laws or legislative initiatives that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and/or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 and elsewhere in that report and (ii) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
qui tam
 


