Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Information Is Subject to Risk and Uncertainty Certain statements in this report may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, intends, plans, projects, believes, estimates, and similar expressions are used to identify these forward looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward looking statements. As a result, these statements speak only as of the date they were made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our actual results and future trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including the continued operation, viability and growth of major airline customers and non airline customers (such as the U.S. Government); adverse developments in the value of collateral securing customer and other financings; the occurrence of any significant collective bargaining labor dispute; the Companys successful execution of internal performance plans, price escalation, production rate increases and decreases (including any reduction in or termination of an aircraft product), acquisition and divestiture plans, and other cost reduction and productivity efforts; charges from any future SFAS No. 142 review; an adverse development in rating agency credit ratings or assessments; the actual outcomes of certain pending sales campaigns and U.S. and foreign government procurement activities, including the timing of procurement of tankers by the U.S. Department of Defense; the cyclical nature of some of the Companys businesses; unanticipated financial market changes which may impact pension plan assumptions; domestic and international competition in the defense, space and commercial areas; continued integration of acquired businesses; performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and customers; factors that could result in significant and prolonged disruption to air travel worldwide (including future terrorist attacks); any additional impacts from the attacks of September 11, 2001; global trade policies; worldwide political stability; domestic and international economic conditions; price escalation; the outcome of political and legal processes, including uncertainty regarding government funding of certain programs; changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government or foreign government defense and space budgets; termination of government or commercial contracts due to unilateral government or customer action or failure to perform; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; legal proceedings; tax settlements with the IRS; and other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in the Companys SEC filings, including, without limitation, the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001 and the Forms 10 Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2002, June 30, 2002 and September 30, 2002. 11 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND STANDARDS ISSUED AND NOT YET IMPLEMENTED Application of Critical Accounting Policies The Companys primary operating segments are Commercial Airplanes, Military Aircraft and Missile Systems, Space and Communications, and Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The following is a summary of the Companys most critical accounting policies. Contract accounting Contract accounting is used predominately by the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems and Space and Communications segments. The majority of the business conducted in these segments is performed under contracts for the U.S. Government and foreign governments that extend over a number of years. The process to estimate the total contract cost revenue relationship results in the development of gross margin and cost of sales percentages. These percentages are utilized in the recognition of earnings and are significant factors in contract accounting. The amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentages to the amount of revenue recognized for each contract. Total contract revenue estimates are based on the negotiated contract price modified by assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance, and contract terms that provide for the adjustment of prices in the event of variations from projected inflationary trends. Total contract cost estimates are based in a large part on historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections, and information provided by suppliers. Factors that influence these estimates include technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset utilization, anticipated labor agreements, and inflationary trends. Revenues under contracts with fixed prices are generally recognized as deliveries are made. For certain fixed price contracts that require substantial performance over an extended period before deliveries begin, revenues are recorded based on the attainment of performance milestones. Revenues under contracts with terms that reimburse for costs incurred plus an agreed upon profit are recorded as costs are incurred. Contracts may contain provisions to earn incentive and award fees if targets are achieved. Incentive and award fees that can be reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentive and award fees that cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded. The development of gross margin and cost of sales percentages involves procedures and personnel in all areas of the Company that provide financial or production information on the status of contracts. This contract management process produces the Companys best estimate of contract cost and contract revenue. Estimates of each significant contracts cost and revenue are reviewed and reassessed quarterly. Changes in these estimates result in recognition of cumulative adjustments to the contract profit in the period in which changes are made. The experience over the past two years has resulted in a range of plus or minus 0.5% for the combined gross margin of all contracts in the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems and the Space and Communications segments. If combined gross margin for all contracts in the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems and the Space and Communications segments for all of 2002 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 0.5% it would have increased or decreased income for the year by approximately $125 million. 12 Program accounting The Company uses program accounting for its 7 series commercial airplane programs. Program accounting is a method of accounting for the costs of certain products manufactured for delivery under production type contracts where profitability is realized over multiple contracts and years. Under program accounting, inventoriable production costs (including overhead), program tooling costs and warranty costs are accumulated and charged to revenue by program instead of by individual units or contracts. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long term production effort for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. To establish the relationship of revenue to cost of sales, program accounting requires estimates of (a) the number of units to be produced and sold in a program, (b) the period over which the units can reasonably be expected to be produced, and (c) their expected selling prices, production costs, program tooling, and warranty costs for the total program. The reliance on estimates in the use of program accounting requires the demonstrated ability to reliably estimate the cost revenue relationship for the defined program accounting quantity. The factors that must be estimated include selling price, labor and employee benefit costs, material costs, procured parts and major component costs, and overhead costs. To meet this requirement the Company employs a rigorous estimating process that is reviewed and updated on a quarterly basis. Changes in estimate are recognized on a prospective basis. Underlying all estimates used for program accounting is the assumed market and the corresponding production rates. The program accounting quantity is established based upon the assumed market. The total program revenue is determined by estimating the model mix and sales price for all unsold units within the accounting quantity added together with the revenue for all undelivered units under contract. The sales prices for all undelivered units within the accounting quantity include an escalation adjustment that is based on projected escalation rates. Cost estimates are based in a large part on historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections, and information provided by suppliers. Factors that influence these estimates include production rates, internal and subcontractor performance trends, asset utilization, anticipated labor agreements, and inflationary trends. The Company recognizes revenue for commercial airplanes when a unit is completed and accepted by the customer. The revenue recognized is the price negotiated with the customer including special features adjusted by an escalation formula. The amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage for the total remaining program to the amount of revenue recognized for the quarter. Because of the higher unit production costs experienced at the beginning of a new airplane program (known as the learning curve effect), the actual costs incurred for production of the early units in the program will exceed the amount reported as cost of sales for those units. This difference known as deferred production costs is included in inventory along with unamortized tooling costs. The experience of the last two years, with all programs being relatively mature, has been that estimate changes due to model mix, escalation, cost performance, and accounting quantity increases have resulted in a range of plus or minus 0.5% for the combined gross margin of all commercial airplane programs. If combined gross margin for all commercial airplane programs for all of 2002 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 0.5% it would have increased or decreased income for the year by approximately $122 million. Aircraft valuation Used aircraft under trade in agreements The Company enters into certain trade in agreements to purchase used aircraft from customers at a specific price at a future point in time when those customers purchase new aircraft from the Company. In the event the Company accepts an aircraft under a trade in agreement, the aircraft purchased by the Company serves as collateral to offset amounts paid by the Company to the customer. Obligations recorded from trade in aircraft agreements are measured as the difference between gross amounts payable to customers and the estimated fair value of the collateral. The fair value of collateral is determined using a process based on the net present value of expected future cash flows from the trade in aircraft, assuming the most likely market placement of the aircraft. The first step in this process uses the Companys assessment of the market for each trade in aircraft, which in most instances begins years before the return of the aircraft. There are several possible markets to which the Company continually pursues opportunities to place used aircraft. These markets include, but are not limited to, (1) the resale market, which could potentially include the cost of long term storage, (2) the leasing market, with the potential for refurbishment costs to meet the leasing customers requirements, or (3) the scrap market. Collateral valuation varies significantly depending on which market the Company determines is most likely for each aircraft. On a quarterly basis, the Company updates its valuation analysis based on the actual activities associated with placing each aircraft into a market. This quarterly collateral valuation process yields results that are typically lower than residual value estimates by independent sources and tends to more accurately reflect results upon the actual placement of the aircraft. 13 Based on the best market information available at the time, the Company deemed it probable that it would be obligated to perform on trade in agreements with gross amounts payable to customers totaling $1,370 million and $1,340 million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Accounts payable and other liabilities included $156 million and $189 million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, which represents the trade in aircraft exposure related to these trade in agreements. Using a measurement date of December 31, 2002, had the estimate of collateral value used to calculate its obligation related to trade in agreements been 10% higher or lower than the Companys actual assessment, accounts payable and other liabilities would have decreased or increased by approximately $121 million. The Company continually updates its assessment of the likelihood of its trade in aircraft purchase obligations and continues to monitor all these obligations for adverse developments. Asset valuation for equipment under operating lease, held for re lease and collateral on receivables The fair value of owned assets (equipment under operating leases and assets held for re lease) and collateral on receivables is periodically assessed to determine if the fair value is less than the carrying value. Differences between carrying value and fair value are considered in determining the allowance for losses on receivables and, in certain circumstances, recorded as impairment for owned assets. The Company uses the average published value from multiple sources based on the type and age of the aircraft to determine the fair value of aircraft. Under certain circumstances, the Company applies judgment based on the attributes of the specific aircraft to determine fair value, usually when the features or utilization of the aircraft varies significantly from the more generic aircraft attributes covered by outside publications. Impairment review for equipment under operating leases and held for re lease The Company reviews these assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. An asset under operating lease or held for re lease is considered impaired when the expected undiscounted cash flow over the remaining useful life is less than the book value. Various assumptions are used when determining the expected undiscounted cash flow. These assumptions include lease rates, lease term(s), periods in which the asset may be held in preparation for a follow on lease, maintenance costs, remarketing costs and the life of the asset. The determination of expected lease rates is generally based on outside publications. The Company uses historical information and current economic trends to determine the remaining assumptions. When impairment is indicated for an asset, the amount of impairment loss is the excess of carrying value over fair value. The Company estimates that had the fair value of such assets deemed impaired during 2002 been 10% higher or lower at the time each specific impairment had been taken, the impairment expense would have decreased or increased by approximately $6 million. The Company is unable to predict the magnitude of any future impairments. Allowance for losses on receivables The allowance for losses on receivables (valuation allowance) is a valuation account used to provide for potential impairment of receivables on the balance sheet. The balance is an accounting estimate of probable but unconfirmed losses in the receivable portfolio. The valuation allowance relates to two components of receivables: (a) specifically identified receivables that are evaluated individually for impairment, and (b) pools of receivables that are evaluated for impairment. A specific receivable is reviewed for impairment when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect amounts due according to the contractual terms of the receivable agreement. Factors considered in assessing uncollectibility include a customers extended delinquency, requests for restructuring and filing for bankruptcy. A specific impairment allowance is provided based on the difference between the carrying value of the receivable and the estimated fair value of the related collateral. The Company reviews the adequacy of the general valuation allowance attributable to the remaining pool of receivables by assessing both the collateral exposure and the applicable default rate. Collateral exposure for a particular receivable is the excess of the carrying value over the applicable collateral value of the related asset. A receivable with an estimated collateral value in excess of the carrying value is considered to have no collateral exposure. The applicable default rate is determined using two components: customer credit ratings and weighted average remaining portfolio term. Credit ratings are identified for each customer in the portfolio. Customer credit ratings are updated based on current rating agency information or the Companys best estimates. 14 For each credit rating category, the collateral exposure is multiplied by an applicable historical default rate, yielding a credit adjusted collateral exposure. Historical default rates are published by Standard & Poors reflecting both the customer credit rating and the weighted average remaining portfolio term. The sum of the credit adjusted collateral exposures generates an initial estimate of the general valuation allowance. In recognition of the uncertainty of the ultimate loss experience and relatively long duration of the portfolio, a range of reasonably possible outcomes of the portfolios credit adjusted collateral exposure is calculated by varying the applicable default rate by approximately plus and minus 15%. The valuation allowance recorded represents the best estimate within the resulting range of credit adjusted collateral exposure, factoring in considerations of risk of individual credits, current and projected economic and political conditions, and prior loss experience. The resulting range of the credit adjusted collateral exposure as of December 31, 2002, was approximately $280 million to $355 million. The Company adjusted the valuation allowance to $342 million at December 31, 2002. Goodwill impairment The Company accounts for its goodwill under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. This statement requires an impairment only approach to accounting for goodwill. Because the composition of the Company has changed significantly due to various acquisitions, goodwill constitutes a significant portion of the Companys long term assets. As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company recorded a pre tax goodwill impairment charge of $2,410 million during the first quarter of 2002. The SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment model is a two step process. First, it requires a comparison of the book value of net assets to the fair value of the related operations that have goodwill assigned to them. If the fair value is determined to be less than book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. In this process, a fair value for goodwill is estimated, based in part on the fair value of the operations used in the first step, and is compared to its carrying value. The shortfall of the fair value below carrying value represents the amount of goodwill impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires goodwill to be tested for impairment annually at the same time every year, and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that an impairment may exist. The Company selected April 1 as its annual testing date. The Company estimates the fair values of the related operations using discounted cash flows. The forecasts of future cash flows are based on the Companys best estimate of future revenues and operating costs, based primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements, and general market conditions, and are subject to review and approval by senior management and the Board of Directors. Changes in these forecasts could cause a particular operating group to either pass or fail the first step in the SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment model, which could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded. The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an appropriate discount rate derived from the Companys market capitalization plus a suitable control premium at the date of evaluation. Therefore, changes in the stock price will also affect the amount of impairment recorded. At the date of the previous impairment, a 10% increase in the value of Boeing common stock would have reduced the impairment charge recorded in the first quarter of 2002 by approximately $190 million. A 10% decrease in the value of Boeing common stock would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $160 million. Postretirement plans The Company sponsors various pension plans covering substantially all employees. The Company also provides postretirement benefit plans other than pensions, consisting principally of health care coverage, to eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. The liabilities and annual income or expense of the Companys pension and other postretirement plans are determined using methodologies that involve several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the long term rate of asset return, and medical trend (rate of growth for medical costs). Not all net periodic pension income or expense is recognized in net earnings in the year incurred because it is allocated to production as product costs, and a portion remains in inventory at the end of a reporting period. The Company uses a discount rate that is based on a point in time estimate as of the September 30 measurement date. This rate is determined based on a review of long term, high quality corporate bonds as of the measurement date and use of models that match projected benefit payments of the Companys major United States pension and other postretirement plans to coupons and maturities from high quality bonds. A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate would decrease the 2002 pension and other postretirement liabilities by approximately $1,000 million (3%) and $230 million (3%), respectively, and decrease the 2002 net periodic pension and other postretirement expense by approximately $16 million and $11 million, respectively. A 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase the 2002 pension and other postretirement liabilities by approximately $1,250 million (3.5%) and $250 million (3.5%), respectively, and increase the 2002 net periodic pension and other postretirement expense by approximately $18 million and $13 million, respectively. 15 Net periodic pension costs include an underlying expected long term rate of asset return. In developing this assumption, the Company looks at a number of factors: a review of asset class return by several of the Companys trust fund investment advisors, long term inflation assumptions, and long term historical returns for the Companys plans. The expected long term rate of asset return is based on a diversified portfolio including domestic and international equities, fixed income, real estate, private equities and uncorrelated assets. Pension income or expense is especially sensitive to changes in the long term rate of asset return. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the expected long term rate of asset return would have increased or decreased 2002 pension income by approximately $95 million. The 2002 postretirement benefit obligation for non pension plans reflects a significant increase in medical trend. Recent losses due to higher than expected increases in medical claims costs have created an unrecognized loss in 2002. The Company increased its short term medical trend for 2003 to reflect the revised expectations of continued cost increases in the next few years. Standards Issued and Not Yet Implemented In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which is effective January 1, 2003. This standard addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated retirement costs. The Company has determined that the implementation of this standard will not have a material effect on its financial statements. In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. This standard requires costs associated with exit or disposal activities to be recognized when they are incurred. The requirements of SFAS No. 146 apply prospectively to activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, and as such, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the impact of adopting these new rules until and unless it undertakes relevant activities in future periods. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of the Indebtedness of Others, which clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, relating to a guarantors accounting for and disclosures of certain guarantees issued. FIN 45 requires enhanced disclosures for certain guarantees. It also will require certain guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31, 2002, including certain third party guarantees, to be initially recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. For guarantees issued on or before December 31, 2002, liabilities are recorded when and if payments become probable and estimable. The Company expects FIN 45 to have the general effect of delaying recognition for a portion of the revenue for product sales that are accompanied by certain third party guarantees. The financial statement recognition provisions are effective prospectively, and the Company cannot reasonably estimate the impact of adopting FIN 45 until guarantees are issued or modified in future periods, at which time their results will be initially reported in the financial statements. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements discussion. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, relating to consolidation of certain entities. First, FIN 46 will require identification of the Companys participation in variable interests entities (VIE), which are defined as entities with a level of invested equity that is not sufficient to fund future activities to permit them to operate on a stand alone basis, or whose equity holders lack certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest. For entities identified as VIE, FIN 46 sets forth a model to evaluate potential consolidation based on an assessment of which party to the VIE, if any, bears a majority of the exposure to its expected losses, or stands to gain from a majority of its expected returns. FIN 46 also sets forth certain disclosures regarding interests in VIE that are deemed significant, even if consolidation is not required. The Company is currently assessing the application of FIN 46 as it relates to its variable interests. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements discussion. 16 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The Company operates in four principal segments: Commercial Airplanes, Military Aircraft and Missile Systems, Space and Communications, and BCC. All other activities fall within the Other segment, principally made up of Boeing Technology, Connexion by BoeingSM and Air Traffic Management. Consolidated Results of Operations (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $54,069 $58,198 $51,321 Operating Earnings $3,868 $3,896 $3,058 Operating Margins 7.2% 6.7% 6.0% Net Earnings $492 $2,827 $2,128 Research and Development* $1,639 $1,936 $1,998 Effective Income Tax Rate 27.1% 20.7% 29.0% Contractual Backlog $104,173 $106,591 $120,600 *Includes In Process Research & Development in 2000 Revenues Revenues for 2002 were $54.1 billion compared with $58.2 billion in 2001 and $51.3 billion in 2000. The lower revenues in 2002 principally reflect decreased deliveries in the Commercial Airplanes segment. Fewer commercial airplane deliveries in 2002 were offset by growth of $1.5 billion in the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment revenues. The higher revenues in 2001 compared to 2000 principally reflect increased deliveries in the Commercial Airplanes segment, but also reflect an increase in Space and Communications segment revenues. Based on current schedules and plans, the Company projects total 2003 revenues to be approximately $49 billion. Operating Earnings Operating earnings for 2002 were $3,868 million compared with $3,896 million in 2001 and $3,058 million in 2000. 2001 operating earnings were significantly impacted by $935 million of pre tax special charges related to the events of September 11, 2001. See Note 3. Excluding the September 11, 2001, special charges, operating earnings in 2002 would have been $963 million lower than 2001 operating earnings. This decrease in operating earnings reflected lower commercial airplane deliveries offset by production efficiencies in the Commercial Airplanes segment and higher deliveries of Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment products. Space and Communications segment operating earnings also decreased as commercial satellite losses offset growth and performance on other programs. In addition, $426 million of asset impairment charges and additional valuation reserves related to customer and commercial financing assets were recorded by BCC and the Other segment during 2002. Operating earnings of $3,896 million for 2001 were $838 million higher than 2000 operating earnings of $3,058 million. Excluding the September 11, 2001, pre tax special charges of $935 million, operating earnings in 2001 would have been $1,773 million higher than 2000 operating earnings. The increase in operating earnings during 2001 was primarily related to higher commercial airplane deliveries and an increase in Space and Communications segment operating earnings. 17 As indicated in Note 16, the Company has generated significant net periodic benefit income related to pensions: $404 million in 2002, $920 million in 2001, and $428 million in 2000. Not all net periodic pension benefit income or expense is recognized in net earnings in the year incurred because it is allocated to production as product costs, and a portion remains in inventory at the end of a reporting period. Accordingly, the operating earnings for 2002, 2001 and 2000, included $537 million, $785 million and $403 million, respectively, of pension income. Due to the significant investment losses incurred in recent years, the expected future market related value of assets is expected to decrease significantly in the near future. This decrease, when combined with the decrease of 25 basis points in the expected long term asset return is expected to reduce pension income reflected in operating earnings from $537 million in 2002 to approximately $75 million in 2003. In 2004, the pension impact to earnings will depend on market conditions, but based upon current assumptions, the Company expects to recognize a non cash pension expense estimated to range from $200 million to $300 million. Net Earnings Net earnings of $492 million for 2002 were $2,335 million lower than 2001 earnings of $2,827 million. The decrease in net earnings principally reflected a $1,827 million charge recorded in 2002 upon the adoption of SFAS No. 142, decreased commercial airplane deliveries, increased customer financing charges and higher commercial satellite production costs. Other income decreased $276 million in 2002, to $42 million in 2002 from $318 million in 2001. Other income in 2001 included $210 million of interest income associated with federal income tax audit settlements; 2002 did not include similar interest income. Also contributing to lower other income in 2002 was $46 million of losses on long held equity investments. Interest and debt expense increased $80 million in 2002, to $730 million in 2002 from $650 million in 2001. The increased interest expense resulted from increased debt, primarily associated with the increased customer and commercial financing activities of BCC. Interest expense is expected to increase concurrent with increasing future financing activity. Net earnings of $2,827 million for 2001 were $699 million higher than 2000 net earnings of $2,128 million. The increase in net earnings principally reflected increased operating earnings associated with the increase in revenue for 2001. Net earnings in 2001 were significantly reduced by $935 million of pre tax special charges ($633 million after tax) related to the events of September 11, 2001. The increase in net earnings for 2001 over 2000 also reflected the in process research and development expense of $557 million ($348 million after tax) that was recognized in 2000, of which $500 million was associated with the acquisition of the Hughes space and communications businesses, which were renamed Boeing Satellite Systems. Other income decreased $68 million in 2001, to $318 million in 2001 from $386 million in 2000. The decrease in other income in 2001 principally reflected lower interest income from cash, but was partially offset by higher interest income associated with federal income tax audit settlements ($210 million in 2001, compared with $73 million in 2000). Other income in 2000 also included a $42 million gain on sale of a long held equity investment. Interest and debt expense increased $205 million in 2001, to $650 million in 2001 from $445 million in 2000. The increased interest expense resulted from increased debt, primarily associated with the increased customer and commercial financing activities of BCC. Research and Development Research and development expenditures involve design, development and related test activities for defense systems, new and derivative commercial jet aircraft, advance space, other company sponsored product development, and basic research and development. These expenditures are either charged directly against earnings or are included in amounts allocable as reimbursable overhead costs on U.S. Government contracts. Research and development highlights for each of the major business segments are discussed in Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition. In addition, Boeing Technology, the advanced research and development organization of the Company, focuses on improving its competitive position by investing in certain technologies and processes that apply to multiple business units. Technology investments currently being pursued within Boeing Technology include network centric operations, affordable structures and manufacturing technology, lean and efficient design processes and tools, lean support and service initiatives, advanced platform systems and safe and clean products. 18 Total research and development expense in 2002 was $1,639 million, compared with $1,936 million in 2001 and $1,998 million in 2000. Excluding the $557 million of in process research and development expense in 2000, research and development expense increased $495 million in 2001, principally reflecting increases in the Commercial Airplanes segment and the Other segment, which includes activities relating to Connexion by BoeingSM. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for 2002 was 27.1% compared with 20.7% in 2001 and 29.0% in 2000. The 2002 effective income tax rate of 27.1% varies from the federal statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) and Extraterritorial Income (ETI) Exclusion tax benefits of $195 million. This rate also reflects tax credits, state income taxes and favorable resolution of certain audit issues. The effective income tax rates of 20.7% for 2001 and 29.0% for 2000 also vary from the federal statutory tax rate principally due to FSC benefits of $222 million in 2001 and $291 million in 2000. The 2001 income tax rate also reflects a one time benefit of $343 million reflecting a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) relating to research credit claims on McDonnell Douglas Corporation fixed price government contracts applicable to the 1986 1992 federal income tax returns. In December 1996, The Boeing Company filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington for the refund of over $400 million in federal income taxes and related interest. If the Company were to prevail, the refund of the amount in dispute would include interest computed to the payment date. However, the Company cannot predict the likelihood of a favorable outcome. The suit challenged the IRS method of allocating research and development costs for the purpose of determining tax incentive benefits on export sales through the Companys Domestic International Sales Corporation (DISC) and its FSC for the years 1979 through 1987. The Company prevailed with the District Court, but lost an appeals decision with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Company appealed to the Supreme Court and is awaiting their decision, which is expected in the first half of 2003. The Companys financial statements will not be negatively impacted as a result of the suits outcome. Beginning in 1999 and continuing through 2002 the European Union (EU) has issued a series of objections with the World Trade Organization (WTO) to both U.S. FSC and ETI provisions. The WTO has agreed with the EU and ruled that the FSC and ETI provisions constitute prohibited export subsidies. In response the WTO has authorized the EU to impose retaliatory tariffs. A list of products upon which the retaliatory tariff would be imposed is not yet final, but at this point no Boeing products have been included on the list. President Bush has stated that the U.S. will bring its tax laws into compliance with the WTO ruling that the Extraterritorial Income regime constitutes a prohibited export subsidy. Both the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee are continuing to assess alternatives for a replacement of the ETI legislation. It is not possible to predict what impact this issue will have on future earnings pending final resolution of these matters. If ETI is repealed and replacement legislation is not enacted, the loss of benefit to the Company could be substantial. Income taxes have been settled with the IRS for all years through 1978, and IRS examinations have been completed through 1991. In connection with these examinations, the Company disagrees with IRS proposed adjustments, and the years 1979 through 1987 are in litigation. The IRS examination for McDonnell Douglas Corporation for the years 1993 through 1995 has been settled and the Company received a refund of $102 million in 2002. The Company believes adequate provision for all outstanding issues has been made for all open years. 19 Backlog Contractual backlog of unfilled orders excludes purchase options, announced orders for which definitive contracts have not been executed, and unobligated U.S. and foreign government contract funding. Total contractual backlog balances were $104.2 billion at December 31, 2002, $106.6 billion at December 31, 2001, and $120.6 billion at December 31, 2000. The decreases in contractual backlog from 2001 to 2002 and 2000 to 2001 were related to decreases in contractual backlog for Commercial Airplanes offset by increases in contractual backlog for both Space and Communications and Military Aircraft and Missile Systems. Unobligated backlog includes U.S. and foreign government definitive contracts for which funding has not been appropriated. Unobligated backlog totaled $34.7 billion, $27.5 billion and $31.3 billion at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in unobligated backlog from 2001 to 2002 is primarily related to Military Aircraft and Missile Systems, partially offset by Space and Communications. Overall, unobligated backlog decreased from 2000 to 2001 due to a decrease in unobligated backlog for Military Aircraft and Missile Systems, which was partially offset by an increase in unobligated backlog for Space and Communications. Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that affect the Companys investment requirements and liquidity position, other than operating results associated with current sales activity, include the following: timing of new and derivative programs requiring both high developmental expenditures and initial inventory buildup; cyclical factors, including growth and expansion requirements and requirements associated with reducing sales levels; customer financing assistance; the timing of federal income tax payments; the Companys stock repurchase plan; and potential acquisitions. Cash flow summary The Company has generated strong cash flow from operating activities with $4.4 billion provided in 2002, $3.9 billion in 2001 and $6.2 billion in 2000. Earnings, adjusted for non cash items, continue to be the primary source of operating cash flow with over $4 billion provided in each of the last three years. (Dollars in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net earnings $ 492 $ 2,827 $ 2,128 Non cash items 3,772 1,786 1,977 Changes in working capital 111 (719) 2,121 Net cash provided by operating activities 4,375 3,894 6,226 Net cash used by investing activities (3,421) (4,789) (7,911) Net cash provided (used) by financing activities 746 518 (659) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,700 (377) (2,344) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 633 1,010 3,354 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 2,333 $ 633 $ 1,010 Non cash items Non cash items in earnings primarily include depreciation, amortization, share based plans expense, impairments, valuation provisions and the cumulative effect of accounting change relating to the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Non cash items and corresponding amounts are listed in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Working capital Working capital from operations excluding cash contributions for pensions generated approximately $0.5 billion of net cash in 2002. Due to the decline in the airline industry, lower inventory balances and production rates resulted in a $1.5 billion increase in cash flow. The amount of customer advance payments received in excess of costs was $0.9 billion less in 2002 than the previous year due primarily to lower advance payments received. There was also a substantial reduction in vendor payables. The reduction in tax payments in 2002 resulted principally from lower earnings and a $0.1 billion tax refund from settlements of several tax audits. 20 The working capital trend as reflected in the Five Year Summary indicates that the Company has been able to use lower amounts of working capital to support the volume of business transacted and is using capital more efficiently. This trend does not reflect a change in the Companys ability to meet obligations. Pensions 2002 operating cash flow included $0.3 billion of cash funding to the pension plans. On April 15, 2002, the Company voluntarily funded three of its defined benefit plans to ensure that each of its plans would have assets that were at least approximately equal to (and in most cases greater than) the liability for vested benefits as measured by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The Company does not expect significant pension funding requirements in 2003, although it may make additional discretionary contributions. The Company measures its pension plan using a September 30 year end for financial accounting purposes. The significant declines experienced in the financial markets have unfavorably impacted asset performance. As a result, the Company has reduced its expected long term rate of asset return by 25 basis points to 9.0% beginning in 2003. The expected long term rate of asset return is based on target asset allocations of 60% equity with a return of 10.0%, 30% fixed income with a return of 6.8%, and 10% other (including real estate) with a return of 9.2%. Current allocations are within 1 to 3% of each of the long term targets. The decline in asset performance coupled with historically low interest rates (a key factor when estimating plan liabilities), caused the Company to recognize a significant non cash charge to equity in the fourth quarter of 2002. This charge, which amounted to a $5.7 billion increase to the accrued pension plan liability and a $3.6 billion after tax decrease to the accumulated other comprehensive income account within shareholders equity, did not impact earnings or cash flow, and could reverse in future periods should either interest rates increase or market performance and plan returns improve. The Company uses a discount rate that is based on a point in time estimate as of the September 30 measurement date. Although future changes to the discount rate are unknown, had the discount rate increased or decreased 100 basis points, the pension and postretirement liability would have decreased $3.6 billion or increased $4.4 billion, respectively. Investing activities The majority of BCCs customer financing is funded by debt and cash flow from its own operations. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had outstanding irrevocable commitments of approximately $3.2 billion to arrange or provide financing related to aircraft on order or under option for deliveries scheduled through the year 2007. Not all these commitments are likely to be used; however, a significant portion of these commitments are with parties with relatively low credit ratings. See Note 20 and 21. Outstanding loans and commitments are primarily secured by the underlying aircraft. Additional investments of $0.4 billion were made by BCC in Enhanced Equipment Trust Certificates (EETCs) offered by various airlines in 2002. EETCs are widely used in the airline industry as a method of financing aircraft. BCC provides financing for airlines and has begun investing in these types of instruments as an investor. See BCC Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Financing activities Debt maturities during this three year period included $1.3 billion in 2002, $0.5 billion in 2001, and $0.5 billion in 2000. Additionally, BCC issued $2.8 billion of debt in 2002, $3.9 billion in 2001 and $2.0 billion in 2000. The significant BCC debt issuance in 2000 and 2001 was performed in conjunction with the transfer of a significant portion of the Companys customer financing assets to BCC as well as growth in the customer financing portfolio. In 2002, BCC debt issuance was generally used for growth in the customer financing portfolio. The Company has a share repurchase program, but there were no share repurchases in 2002. See Note 18. 21 Disclosures about contractual obligations and commitments The following table summarizes the Companys known obligations to make future payments or other consideration pursuant to certain contracts as of December 31, 2002, as well as an estimate of the timing in which these obligations are expected to be satisfied. Contractual obligations (Dollars in millions) Total Less than 1year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5years Long term debt $ 13,704 $ 1,377 $ 2,808 $ 2,843 $ 6,676 Capital lease obligations 699 437 120 116 26 Operating leases 1,915 349 497 373 696 Other long term liabilities 12,247 291 2,743 2,762 6,451 Total contractual obligations $ 28,565 $ 2,454 $ 6,168 $ 6,094 $ 13,849 Other long term liabilities in the table above include accrued retiree health care, accrued pension plan liability and deferred lease income. Inventory procurement contacts The Company has entered into certain significant inventory procurement contracts that specify determinable prices and quantities, and long term delivery timeframes. These agreements require suppliers and vendors to be prepared to build and deliver items in sufficient time to meet the Companys production schedules. The need for such arrangements with suppliers and vendors arises due to the extended production planning horizon for many of its products, including commercial aircraft, military aircraft and other products where the delivery to the customer is over an extended period of time. A significant portion of these inventory commitments are either supported by a firm contract from a customer or have historically resulted in settlement through either termination payments or contract adjustments, when necessary, should the customer base not materialize to support delivery from the supplier. Although there are no plans to do so, if any of the Companys programs were to be terminated, the Company would be exposed to potentially material termination costs. Industrial participation agreements The Company has entered into various industrial participation agreements with customers in foreign countries to effect economic flow back and or technology transfer to their businesses or government agencies as the result of their procurement of goods and or services from the Company. These commitments may be satisfied by the Companys placement of direct work, placement of vendor orders for supplies, opportunities to bid on supply contracts, transfer of technology, or other forms of assistance to the foreign country. The Company does not commit to industrial participation obligations unless a contract for sale of the Companys products or services is signed. To be eligible for such a commitment from the Company, the foreign country or customer must have sufficient capability and capacity and must be competitive in cost, quality and schedule. In certain cases, if a contract is placed with a foreign supplier to satisfy an industrial participation obligation, failure of that supplier to comply with any or all of these terms and conditions relieves the Company of its obligations pursuant to that portion of its industrial participation commitment. In certain cases, penalties could be imposed if the Company does not meet its industrial participation obligations. During 2002, no penalties were incurred by the Company. As of December 31, 2002, the Company has outstanding industrial participation obligations totaling approximately $8.2 billion that extend through 2013. Capital resources The Company has the following Standard & Poors credit ratings: short term, A 1; senior debt, A+. BCC has the following Standard & Poors credit ratings: short term, A 1; senior debt, A+. The Company has the following Moodys credit ratings: short term, P 1; senior debt, A2. BCC has the following Moodys credit ratings: short term, P 2; senior debt, A3. The Company has the following Fitchs credit ratings: short term, F 1; senior debt, A+. BCC has the following Fitchs credit ratings: short term, F 1; senior debt, A+. The events of September 11, 2001, negatively impacted the liquidity and capital resources of the Company. Subsequent to September 11, 2001, the Company established a commercial paper program providing additional short term liquidity. Commercial paper remains a significant liquidity source. 22 The Company has debt obligations of $14.4 billion, which are unsecured. Approximately $1.8 billion will mature in 2003, and the balance has an average maturity of 12.4 years. Excluding BCC debt of $9.5 billion and non recourse debt of $0.6 billion, total debt is at 42% of total shareholders equity plus debt. The consolidated debt, including BCC, is at 65% of total shareholders equity plus debt. As previously noted, the Company has recognized a significant non cash charge to equity of $3.6 billion, net of tax. Excluding this item and BCC debt, the consolidated debt was 31% of shareholders equity plus debt. The Company has additional substantial borrowing capability. Currently, the Company has $4.3 billion that remains available from shelf registrations filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and $4.5 billion ($2.0 billion exclusively available for BCC) of unused borrowing on revolving credit line agreements with a group of major banks. See Note 15. The Company believes its internally generated liquidity, together with access to external capital resources, will be sufficient to satisfy existing commitments and plans, and also to provide adequate financial flexibility to take advantage of potential strategic business opportunities should they arise within the next year. Due to the continuing downturn in the commercial aviation market and the recent airline announcements in the United States that confirm the delayed recovery of airline traffic and profitability, several customers have rescheduled aircraft delivery dates. The rescheduling of delivery dates will reduce aircraft advance payments in the near term. The reduction in advance payments will be offset by reduced inventory spending, resulting in an immaterial impact on the Companys liquidity. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company is a party to certain off balance sheet arrangements, as defined by the SEC, including certain guarantees and variable interests in unconsolidated entities. Guarantees The following tables provide quantitative data regarding the Companys third party guarantees. The maximum potential payment amounts represent worst case scenarios, and do not necessarily reflect results expected by the Company. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets the Company could liquidate or receive from other parties to offset its payments under guarantees. The carrying amount of liabilities recorded on the balance sheet reflects the Companys best estimate of future payments it may be required to make as part of fulfilling its guarantee obligations. Portions of certain liabilities were established in prior periods as part of the Companys special charges due to the events of September 11, 2001. As of December 31, 2002, MaximumPotentialPayments EstimatedProceeds fromCollateral/Recourse CarryingAmounts ofLiabilities* Portion ofLiabilitiesRelated to theEvents of Septemer 11, 2001 Asset related guarantees $ 790 $ 629 $ 17 $ 7 Credit guarantees related to the Sea Launch venture 535 186 200 Other credit guarantees 245 72 19 Equipment trust certificates 182 101 Performance guarantees 57 1 *Amounts included in accounts payable and other liabilities The Company has issued various asset related guarantees, principally to facilitate the sale of certain commercial aircraft. Under these arrangements, the Company is obligated to make payments to a guaranteed party in the event the related aircraft fair values fall below a specified amount at a future point in time. These obligations are collateralized principally by commercial aircraft. No aircraft have been delivered with these types of guarantees in several years. Recent declines in asset values of commercial aircraft increase the risk of future payment by the Company under these guarantees. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recorded a reduction to expense of $3 million and made net cash payments totaling $138 million related to its asset related guarantees. 23 The Company has issued credit guarantees to creditors of the Sea Launch venture, of which the Company is a 40% owner, to assist the venture in obtaining financing. In the event the Company is required to perform on these guarantees, it has the right to recover a portion of the loss from another venture partner, and has collateral rights to certain assets of the venture. In addition, the Company has issued credit guarantees, principally to facilitate the sale of certain commercial aircraft. Under these arrangements, the Company is obligated to make payments to a guaranteed party in the event that lease or loan payments are not made by the original debtor or lessee. The Companys commercial aircraft credit related guarantees are collateralized by the underlying commercial aircraft. A substantial portion of these guarantees have been extended on behalf of original debtors or lessees with less than investment grade credit. Recent financial weakness in certain airlines further exposes the Company to loss under its credit guarantees. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recorded no expenses and made net cash payments totaling $9 million related to its credit guarantees. As a liquidity provider for equipment trust certificate (ETC) pass through arrangements, the Company has certain obligations to investors in the trusts, which requires funding to the trust to cover interest due to such investors resulting from an event of default by United Airlines. In the event of funding, the Company receives a first priority position in the ETC collateral in the amount of the funding. On February 7, 2003, the Company advanced $101 million to the trust perfecting its collateral position and terminating its liquidity obligation. The trust currently has collateral value that significantly exceeds the amount due to the Company. Also relating to an ETC investment, the Company has potential obligations relating to shortfall interest payments in the event that the interest rates in the underlying agreements are reset below a certain level. These obligations would cease if United Airlines were to default on its interest payments to the trust. There were no significant payments made by the Company during 2002. The Company has outstanding performance guarantees issued in conjunction with joint venture investments. Pursuant to these guarantees, the Company would be required to make payments in the event a third party fails to perform specified services. Material variable interests in unconsolidated entities The Company is currently assessing the application of FIN 46 as it relates to its variable interests. While the Company is currently not required to consolidate the full amount of the ETCs, EETCs or the Sea Launch venture in which it has invested, it is unable to definitively conclude at this time whether consolidation or disclosure will be required for these investments upon full adoption of FIN 46. The Companys investment in ETCs and EETCs aggregated $455 million at December 31, 2002. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recorded revenues of $25 million, cash inflows of $41 million, and impairment expense of $79 million relating to these investments. As of December 31, 2002, the VIE (ETCs and EETCs) in which the Company has invested have total assets of approximately $4.2 billion and total debt (which is non recourse to the Company) of approximately $3.7 billion. The total assets and total liabilities of the Sea Launch venture each represent less than 4% of the Companys consolidated total assets and total liabilities as of December 31, 2002. The Company made no additional capital contributions to the Sea Launch venture during the year ended December 31, 2002. Disclosures about commercial commitments The following table summarizes the Companys commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2002, as well as an estimate of the timing in which these commitments are expected to expire. Commercial commitments (Dollars in millions) Total AmountsCommitted/Maximum Amount of Loss Less than 1year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5years Standby letters of credit and surety bonds $ 1,663 $ 1,079 $ 221 $ 70 $ 293 Guarantees: Asset related guarantees 790 63 60 667 Credit guarantees 780 4 40 614 122 Equipment trust certificates 182 182 Performance guarantees 57 12 33 12 Trade in commitments 1,993 617 1,054 220 102 Other commercial commitments 3,329 1,569 1,715 45 Total commercial commitments $ 8,794 $ 3,344 $ 3,063 $ 964 $ 1,423 24 Related to the issuance of certain standby letters of credit and surety bonds included in the above table, the Company received $608 million of advance payments from customers. The Company enters into certain trade in agreements to purchase used aircraft from customers at a specific price at a future point in time when those customers purchase new aircraft from the Company. In the event the Company accepts an aircraft under a trade in agreement, the aircraft purchased by the Company serves as collateral to offset amounts paid by the Company to the customer. As of December 31, 2002, accounts payable and other liabilities included $156 million related to trade in commitments, of which $93 million was related to the events of September 11, 2001. The total contractual trade in value of all aircraft that customers had the right to sell to the Company was $1,993 million as of December 31, 2002, and the Company estimated the fair value of those aircraft was $1,837 million. There is a high degree of uncertainty inherent in the assessment of the likelihood of trade in commitments. Generally, as commercial aircraft values decline, the probability of the Companys performance on trade in commitments increases. There have been recent declines in value for certain aircraft models, including those for which the Company has trade in agreements. Updates on the likelihood that trade in commitments will be exercised using both quantitative information from valuation sources and qualitative information from other sources are continually assessed. The Company continues to monitor all trade in commitments for adverse developments. Other commercial commitments include irrevocable financing commitments related to aircraft on order and commercial equipment financing. These are previously discussed and also disclosed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Commercial Airplanes (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $28,387 $35,056 $31,171 % Of Total Company Revenues 53% 60% 61% Unit Cost Method Operating Earnings $2,847 $2,632 $2,736 Operating Margins 10.0% 7.5% 8.8% Program Accounting Method Operating Earnings $2,017 $1,911 $2,099 Operating Margins 7.1% 5.5% 6.7% Research and Development $768 $858 $574 Contractual Backlog $68,159 $75,850 $89,780 Revenues Commercial Airplanes segment revenues were $28.4 billion in 2002 compared with $35.1 billion in 2001 and $31.2 billion for 2000. Commercial Airplanes revenue is derived primarily from jet aircraft deliveries. The decline in revenue in 2002 compared to 2001 was due primarily to the decline in the commercial aviation market and resulting jet aircraft deliveries and revenue. 2001 revenue was higher than in 2000 due primarily to the increase in commercial jet aircraft deliveries. Commercial jet aircraft deliveries were 381 in 2002 compared with 527 in 2001 and 489 in 2000 summarized as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 717 20 49 (10) 32 (23) 737 Classic 2 737 Next Generation 223 (2) 299 (5) 279 747 27 (1) 31 (1) 25 757 29 45 45 767 35 (1) 40 44 777 47 61 55 MD 11 2 4 MD 90 3 Total 381 527 489 25 Commercial jet aircraft deliveries included deliveries under operating lease, which are identified by parentheses in the table above. Deliveries in 2002 included intercompany deliveries of four 737 Next Generation aircraft, consisting of three C 40 aircraft and one Project Wedgetail Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) System aircraft. Deliveries in 2001 included intercompany deliveries of two 737 Next Generation aircraft, and in 2000 included intercompany deliveries of four 737 Next Generation aircraft and one 747 aircraft. Final deliveries of the MD 11 aircraft program occurred in 2001. Final deliveries of the 737 Classic and MD 90 aircraft programs occurred in 2000. The cumulative number of commercial aircraft deliveries as of December 31 were as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 717 113 93 44 737 Next Generation 1,247 1,024 725 747 1,319 1,292 1,261 757 1,022 993 948 767 892 857 817 777 424 377 316 The undelivered units under firm order* as of December 31 were as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 717 26 30 107 737 Next Generation 765 857 997 747 52 59 77 757 28 55 94 767 39 77 82 777 173 198 241 * Firm orders represent new aircraft purchase agreements where the customers rights to cancel without penalty have expired. Typical customer rights to cancel without penalty include receiving Board of Directors approval, shareholder approval, government approval and completing financing arrangements. All such cancellation rights must be satisfied or expired even if satisfying such conditions are highly certain. Firm orders exclude option aircraft and aircraft subject to reconfirmation. Total commercial jet aircraft deliveries for 2003 are currently projected to approximate 280 aircraft. For 2004, commercial aircraft deliveries are currently projected to be in the range of 275 to 300 aircraft. As of January 30, 2003, the delivery forecast for 2003 is virtually sold out and approximately 80% sold for 2004 at the lower end of the range. Commercial Airplanes segment revenues for 2003 are projected to be in the range of $22 billion. Operating Earnings Commercial Airplanes segment calculates its operating earnings using both the unit cost and program accounting methods. For segment reporting purposes, as disclosed in Note 24, the Commercial Airplanes operating earnings as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, are provided on the unit cost basis. Beginning in first quarter 2003, Commercial Airplanes segment data will be based on the program accounting method. Commercial Airplanes segment 2002 operating earnings, based on the unit cost of airplanes delivered, were $2,847 million, compared with $2,632 million in 2001 and $2,736 million in 2000. The related operating margins were 10.0%, 7.5% and 8.8%, respectively. 2002 and 2001 operating earnings included $(2) million and $908 million, respectively, of (recoveries)/charges associated with the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Excluding these (recoveries)/charges, Commercial Airplanes segment operating earnings in 2002 and 2001 were $2,845 million and $3,540 million, resulting in operating margins of 10.0% and 10.1%, respectively. Excluding the September 11 (recoveries)/charges, 2002 operating margin was slightly lower than 2001 due to the decline in revenue offset by improved operating efficiency and reduced research and development expense. 2001 operating earnings and margin, excluding September 11 charges, increased from 2000 principally due to increased revenue and continued improvement in the production process. 26 Commercial Airplanes segment operating earnings, based on the program method of accounting and including intercompany transactions, as discussed in Note 24, were $2,017 million, $1,911 million and $2,099 million as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The related operating margins were 7.1%, 5.5%, and 6.7%. Excluding the 2002 and 2001 (recoveries)/charges associated with September 11, 2001, the operating earnings for these periods were $2,015 million and $2,819 million, respectively. The comparable margins were 7.1% and 8.0%. The decline in margins from 2001 to 2002 is primarily due to the reduction in revenue offset by improved operating efficiency and reduced research and development expense. In addition, the margins have been adversely impacted compared to 2001 due to the aircraft market decline. In general, this has resulted in the lengthening of the time needed to produce the accounting quantity. Commercial aircraft production costs include a significant amount of infrastructure costs, a portion of which do not vary with production rates. As the amount of time needed to produce the accounting quantity increases, the average cost of the accounting quantity also increases as these infrastructure costs are included in the total cost estimates, thus reducing the gross margin and related earnings provided other factors do not change. The favorable cost performance reflected in the current year earnings and margin is recognized over current and future deliveries under the program method of accounting. For segment reporting purposes, the favorable cost performance is a cumulative adjustment to unit cost over current and prior deliveries. The Company will continue to experience a higher than normal quantity of used airplanes through 2003 as a result of commitments entered into through purchase agreements with customers for new aircraft and services. Due to the current market for used airplanes, the Companys used airplane inventory may increase and these purchases and commitments to purchase may result in future charges. Accounting Quantity A program consists of the estimated accounting quantity for each aircraft to be produced for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. The Company has a policy that determines the appropriate accounting quantity for each commercial aircraft program. This policy takes into account several factors influenced by the demand for the particular product. The Company reviews and reassesses its program accounting quantities on a quarterly basis in compliance with relevant program accounting guidance. The current market for commercial aircraft is adversely affecting all of Commercial Airplanes commercial aircraft programs. The resulting reduction in production rates is extending the time frame for production and delivery of the accounting quantities used for program accounting. This is particularly true for the 747, 757 and 767 programs. The 757 and 767 programs have been experiencing the most difficulty acquiring new orders. Current market projections indicate that the Company will be successful in selling the unsold units within the current accounting quantity for all programs, therefore no accounting quantities have been reduced. The estimate of total program accounting quantities and changes, if any, as of December 31 were: 717 737 Next Generation 747 757 767 777 2002 140 2,000 1,401 1,100 1,000 600 Additions 5 200 2001 135 1,800 1,401 1,100 1,000 600 Additions/(deletions) (65) 150 50 50 50 2000 200 1,650 1,351 1,050 950 600 The accounting quantity for the 717 program continues to be based on firm orders as it has been since fourth quarter of 2001. The increase of five units in the 717 program accounting quantity during the second quarter of 2002 was the result of net new order activity on the program. The reduction of 65 units in the 717 program accounting quantity during the fourth quarter of 2001 was driven by a lack of firm demand for the 717 aircraft subsequent to September 11, 2001. See Note 3. This decrease in demand is demonstrated in the table below by the sharp decrease in the 717 programs anticipated orders as a percentage of cumulative firm orders between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000. Program accounting quantity increases between December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2000 on other programs were the result of the normal progression of business; delivering aircraft; and obtaining additional orders. 27 Within the accounting quantity for all programs there are units that have been delivered, undelivered units under contract, and units anticipated to be under contract in the future (anticipated orders). In developing total program estimates all of these conditions within the accounting quantity must be addressed. The percentage of anticipated orders included in the program accounting estimates as compared to the number of cumulative firm orders* as of December 31 were as follows: 717 737 Next Generation 747 757 767 777 2002 Cumulative firm orders (CFO) 139 2,012 1,371 1,050 931 597 Anticipated orders 0 n/a 29 49 67 3 Anticipated orders as a % CFO 0% n/a 2% 5% 7% 1% 2001 Cumulative firm orders (CFO) 123 1,881 1,351 1,048 934 575 Anticipated orders 11 n/a 49 51 64 25 Anticipated orders as a % CFO 9% n/a 4% 5% 7% 4% 2000 Cumulative firm orders (CFO) 151 1,722 1,338 1,042 899 557 Anticipated orders 48 n/a 12 7 49 43 Anticipated orders as a % CFO 32% n/a 1% 1% 5% 8% * Cumulative firm orders represent the cumulative number of commercial jet aircraft deliveries as of December 31 (see table on page 26) plus undelivered units under firm order (see table on page 26). Cumulative firm orders include orders that fall within the current accounting quantities as well as orders that extend beyond the current accounting quantities. Cumulative firm orders exclude program test aircraft that will not be refurbished for sale. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had cumulatively delivered 113 717 program aircraft. The Company will record 717 deliveries on a break even basis until such time as program reviews indicate changes to the gross margin. The Company has potentially material exposures related to the 717 program, principally attributable to termination costs that could result from a lack of longer term market acceptance. The Company is anticipating an order from the U.S. Air Force for 100 767 tankers, which will have a long term positive impact on the 767 program. This order has been incorporated into the program estimates to the extent the aircraft fall within the current accounting quantity. Based on the anticipated delivery schedule and forecasted production rates most of these aircraft fall beyond the current accounting quantity. The order from the U.S. Air Force for 100 767 tankers is anticipated to become a firm contract during 2003. Deferred Production Costs Inventory production costs incurred on in process and delivered units in excess of the estimated average cost of such units determined as described in Note 1 represent deferred production costs. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were no significant excess deferred production costs or unamortized tooling costs not recoverable from existing firm orders for the 737 Next Generation and 777 programs. The unamortized tooling and deferred production costs included in inventory at December 31are summarized in the following table: 2002 2001 Unamortized tooling 737 Next Generation $ 239 $ 305 777 709 821 Deferred production costs 737 Next Generation 57 429 777 785 863 As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the balance of deferred production costs and unamortized tooling related to the 717, 747, 757 and 767 programs was insignificant. 28 Fleet Support The Company provides the operators of all its commercial airplane models assistance and services to facilitate efficient and safe aircraft operation. Collectively known as fleet support services, these activities and services include flight and maintenance training, field service support costs, engineering services and technical data and documents. Fleet support activity begins prior to aircraft delivery as the customer receives training, manuals and technical consulting support, and continues throughout the operational life of the aircraft. Services provided after delivery include field service support, consulting on maintenance, repair, and operational issues brought forth by the customer or regulators, updating manuals and engineering data, and the issuance of service bulletins that impact the entire models fleet. Field service support involves Company personnel located at customer facilities providing and coordinating fleet support activities and requests. The costs for fleet support are expensed as incurred and have been historically less than 1.5% of total consolidated costs of products and services. This level of expenditures is anticipated to continue in the upcoming years. These costs do not vary significantly with current production rates. Research and Development The Company continually evaluates opportunities to improve current aircraft models, and assesses the marketplace to ensure that its family of commercial jet aircraft are well positioned to meet future requirements of the airline industry. The fundamental strategy is to maintain a broad product line that is responsive to changing market conditions by maximizing commonality among the Boeing family of commercial aircraft. Additionally, the Company is determined to continue to lead the industry in customer satisfaction by offering products with the highest standards of quality, safety, technical excellence, economic performance and in service support. Commercial Airplanes segment research and development expense was $768 million in 2002, $858 million in 2001 and $574 million in 2000. The decrease in 2002 from 2001 was due primarily to reduced spending on the development of the 777 300ER and 747 400ER. The increase in 2001 over 2000 was due primarily to increased spending on the development of the 777 300ER, 777 200LR, 747 400ER and a sonic cruiser airplane. The initial delivery of the 747 400ER and the rollout of the first 777 300ER occurred in the fourth quarter of 2002. The initial delivery of the 777 300ER is expected to occur in 2004. The initial delivery of the 737 900, the largest member of the 737 Next Generation family occurred in the second quarter of 2001. The initial delivery of the 767 400ER, a stretched version of 767 300ER, occurred in the third quarter of 2000. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company announced it will focus its product development efforts on the development of an efficient 200 to 250 seat airplane that will fly 7,000 to 8,000 nautical miles with 15 to 20 percent lower fuel usage at the top end of todays commercial jet speeds. The market potential for a new airplane of this size is forecasted at up to 3,000 units over the next 20 years. The Company expects to formally offer the new airplane to customers in early 2004, with entry into service targeted for 2008. The following chart summarizes the time horizon between go ahead and certification/initial delivery for major Commercial Airplanes derivatives and programs. Backlog Commercial Airplanes segment contractual firm backlog balances were $68.2 billion at December 31, 2002, $75.9 billion at December 31, 2001, and $89.8 billion at December 31, 2000. Contractual firm backlog for Commercial Airplanes segment excludes customers deemed by management to be high risk or in bankruptcy as of the reporting date. The contractual backlog decline reflects the impact that the economic downturn has had on the airline industry. The decline in backlog of $7.7 billion from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002, and $13.9 billion from December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2001, represents higher delivery volume on all airplane programs relative to new orders. December 31, 2002, backlog does not include the anticipated order of 100 U.S. Air Force 767 tankers. This order is anticipated to become a firm contract during 2003. 29 Business Environment and Trends Overview The worldwide market for commercial jet airplanes continues to be predominantly driven by long term trends in airline passenger traffic. The principal factors underlying long term traffic growth are sustained economic growth, both in developed and emerging countries, and political stability. Demand for the Companys commercial airplanes is further influenced by airline industry profitability, world trade policies, government to government relations, environmental constraints imposed upon airplane operations, technological changes, and price and other competitive factors. Airline industry environment Commercial aviation has been impacted by an economic downturn that began in 2001 and continued through 2002. In addition, the industry suffered a tremendous shock from the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Air travel in most areas of the world has not recovered to the volume carried by the airlines in 2000, which is affecting profitability for many airlines. U.S. full service airlines have suffered the greatest losses. Holiday traffic in 2002 for the U.S. airlines showed an improvement and most carriers indicated better financial performance. However, this improvement was for only a short period of time and the major U.S. full service airlines reported significant losses for 2002. In contrast, low fare airlines in the U.S. and in Europe are reporting positive financial results and are growing. European network airlines are expected to show better results than their U.S. counterparts for the fiscal period ending in March of 2003. Traffic between Asia and Europe has rebounded to pre September 11 levels. This trend combined with stronger traffic within the region is offsetting the slow growth over the Pacific permitting most Asian airlines to show profits. Our timetable for industry recovery has been delayed. We presently see 2003 to be the year of recovery for world air travel; late 2003/early 2004 to be the year of airline profitability recovery; 2004 to be the year of airplane order recovery; and 2005 to be the year of delivery recovery. The major uncertainty that is curbing economic growth and a stronger and sooner rebound in the industry is the Iraqi situation in terms of timing, scale of military engagement, effect on oil prices, and clarity of political resolution. The Companys 20 year forecast of the average long term growth rate in passenger traffic is 4.9% annually, based on projected average worldwide annual economic real growth of 2.9%. Based on global economic growth projections over the long term, and taking into consideration an increasingly competitive environment, increasing utilization levels of the worldwide airplane fleet and requirements to replace older airplanes, the Company projected almost a $5 trillion market for new airplanes and services over the next 20 years. This is a long term forecast; historically, while factors such as the Gulf War and ticket charges for security have had significant impact over the span of several years, they have not dramatically affected the longer term trends in the world economy, and therefore, the Companys market outlook. Airline deregulation Worldwide, the airline industry has experienced progressive deregulation of domestic markets and increasing liberalization of international markets. Twenty five years ago virtually all air travel took place within a framework of domestic and international regulatory oversight. Since then, an increasing number of countries, most notably the United States, Australia, Japan and the countries in Western Europe, have eliminated restrictive regulations for domestic airline markets and promoted a more open market climate for international services. These trends are expected to continue, but at varying rates in different parts of the world. At the end of the next decade, an estimated two thirds of air travel will be in open markets. Liberalization of government regulations, together with increased airplane range capabilities, gives airlines greater freedom to pursue optimal fleet mix strategies. This increased flexibility allows the airlines to accommodate traffic growth by selecting the best mix of flight frequencies and airplane size and capabilities for their route systems. In intercontinental markets, more liberal bilateral air service agreements provide an important stimulus to opening new city pair markets, which favor increased flight frequency over capacity growth. In parallel with regulatory liberalization, improvements in airplane range performance will continue to allow airlines to expand the number of direct city to city routes, thus reducing the reliance on indirect routes through central hubs that require larger capacity airplanes. 30 Industry competitiveness The Company currently faces aggressive international competitors that are seeking to increase market share. This competitive factor was demonstrated by the decision of Airbus to introduce the A380, a proposed aircraft with passenger seating greater than the 747, to increase market share at the upper end of the large airplane market. This market environment has resulted in intense pressures on pricing and other competitive factors. The Companys focus on improving processes and other cost reduction efforts is intended to enhance its ability to pursue pricing strategies that enable the Company to maintain leadership at satisfactory margins. Additionally, the Companys extensive customer support services network for airlines throughout the world plays a key role in maintaining high customer satisfaction. As an example, on line access is available to all airline customers for engineering drawings, parts lists, service bulletins and maintenance manuals. The commercial jet aircraft market and the airline industry remain extremely competitive. Competitive pressures and increased lower fare travel have combined to cause a long term downward trend in passenger revenue yields worldwide (measured in real terms). Market liberalization within Europe has enabled low cost airlines to enter the market. These airlines increase the downward pressure on airfares, similar to the competitive environment in the United States. Airfares between Asia and the United States are among the lowest yield (airfare divided by revenue passenger miles) of any in the world. These factors result in continued price pressure on the Companys products. Major productivity gains are essential to ensure a favorable market position at acceptable profit margins. In July 2000, three major European aerospace companies (Aerospatiale Matra of France, DaimlerChrysler Aerospace of Germany, and Construcciones Aeronautica of Spain) combined to form the European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS). As a result of the formation, EADS became an 80% owner of Airbus Industrie (AI) and led the effort for the formation of the Airbus Integrated Company (AIC) in early 2001. The creation of the AIC effectively changes the Airbus role, from that of a marketer/distributor of large commercial airplanes to one including complete manufacturing responsibility. The AIC is incorporated under French law as a privately held corporation owned 80% by EADS and 20% by BAE Systems. Over the past five years, sales outside the United States have accounted for approximately 53% of the Companys total Commercial Airplanes third party segment sales; approximately 50% of the Commercial Airplanes segment contractual backlog as of December 31, 2002, was with customers based outside the United States. Continued access to global markets remains vital to the Companys ability to fully realize its sales potential and projected long term investment returns. Summary Although near term market uncertainties remain, particularly with respect to the recovery post September 11, the long term market outlook appears favorable. The Company is well positioned in all segments of the commercial jet airplane market, and intends to remain the airline industrys preferred supplier through emphasis on product offerings and customer service that provide the best overall value in the industry. Military Aircraft and Missile Systems (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $13,990 $12,451 $11,924 % Of Total Company Revenues 26% 21% 23% Operating Earnings $1,652 $1,346 $1,245 Operating Margins 11.8% 10.8% 10.4% Research and Development $345 $258 $257 Contractual Backlog $21,073 $17,630 $17,113 Revenues Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment revenues were $14.0 billion in 2002, $12.5 billion in 2001 and $11.9 billion in 2000. Increased revenues in 2002 were primarily due to additional deliveries on the C 17 Globemaster, F/A 18E/F Super Hornet, F 15 Eagle, JDAM, AH 64 Apache programs and increased Aerospace Support volume. The Military Aircraft and Missile Systems business segment is broadly diversified, and no program other than the C 17 Globemaster program and the F/A 18E/F Super Hornet program accounted for more than 6% of total 2002 segment revenues. Revenues include amounts attributable to production programs and amounts recognized on a cost reimbursement basis for developmental programs such as the F/A 22 Raptor, V 22 Osprey, and the RAH 66 Comanche. The increase in revenues between 2001 and 2000 is primarily due to increased aircraft deliveries in 2001, one additional C 17 Globemaster, four 737 C 40A Clippers and four CH 47 Chinook helicopters. 31 Deliveries of units for principal production programs, including deliveries under operating lease, which are identified by parentheses, were as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 C 17 Globemaster 16 14 (4) 13 F/A 18E/F Super Hornet 40 36 26 T 45TS Goshawk 14 15 16 F 15E Eagle 3 5 CH 47 Chinook 7 11 7 737 C 40A Clipper 3 4 AH 64 Apache 15 7 8 Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment revenues for 2003 are projected to be in the $14 billion range. Operating Earnings Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment operating earnings for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were $1,652 million, $1,346 million and $1,245 million, respectively. The segment operating margins for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were 11.8%, 10.8% and 10.4%, respectively. The 2002 operating results reflect strong profits on major production programs. The segment operating margins for 2002 were 11.2% after adjusting for gains of $64 million related to the divestiture of equity investments and a favorable adjustment of $24 million attributable to F 15 Eagle program charges taken in 1999. Increased earnings in 2001 from 2000 were associated with the additional delivery of one C 17 Globemaster, four 737 C 40A Clippers and four CH 47 deliveries. The segment operating earnings for 2001 include the recognition of $48 million of charges relating to asset reductions attributable to reduced work volume at the Philadelphia site, and $46 million of charges associated with the Joint Strike Fighter program and idle manufacturing assets. The 2001 operating earnings also included a favorable adjustment of $57 million attributable to F 15 Eagle program charges taken in 1999. Exclusive of these items, the segment operating margins for 2001 were 11.1%. Research and Development The Company is continuing to invest in business opportunities where it can use its customer knowledge, technical strength and large scale systems integration capabilities to shape the market. Investments in Unmanned Systems continue to leverage the Companys capabilities in architectures, system of systems integration and weapon systems technologies to provide transformational capabilities for the U.S. military. Investment is continuing in the 767 Tanker programs for the U.S. Air Force and international customers. Company investments in Airborne Electronic Attack and Precision Weapons and advanced Rotorcraft systems are expanding its breadth of products and capabilities enabling it to access larger portions of the combat systems markets. Military Aircraft and Missile Systems research and development expense in 2002 was $345 million, compared with $258 million in 2001 and $257 million in 2000. Current research and development activities are focused on the international and domestic 767 Tanker program, reflected in the 2002 increased expenditures over 2001. This program represents a large opportunity to provide state of the art tanking capabilities to our potential domestic and international customers. It demonstrates the synergistic value of the diversified Boeing portfolio in providing best value solutions to our customers. Italy recently became the first customer of the 767 tanker ordering four aircraft with first aircraft delivery scheduled in 2005. The Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment continues to pursue business opportunities where it can use its customer knowledge, technical strength and large scale integration capabilities. The segments level of research and development expenditures is consistent with this approach, and reflects the recent business environment, which has presented few major new start opportunities. Other research and development efforts include upgrade and technology insertions to enhance the capability and competitiveness of current product lines, as well as exploration of new markets such as unmanned air vehicles (UAVs). 32 Backlog Total contractual backlog for Military Aircraft and Missile Systems was $21.1 billion at December 31, 2002, $17.6 billion at December 31, 2001 and $17.1 billion at December 31, 2000. Military Aircraft and Missiles Systems contractual backlog increased by 20% in 2002 compared to 2001. The increase in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily attributed to the capture of several key international awards including the Korean F 15 Eagle contract and the Italian 767 Tanker contract. Backlog also increased due to rate increases on several domestic programs in low rate initial production including V 22 Osprey and the F/A 22 Raptor. The C 17 Globemaster program maintained consistent backlog as new orders replaced sales on the existing production contracts. The program is well positioned for continued sales well into this decade. The F/A 18E/F Super Hornet program backlog increased moderately as the customer continues to increase production rate. The JDAM program backlog also increased moderately with additional orders from both the Navy and Air Force. Aerospace Support orders continued to increase this past year. Business Environment and Trends Overview The U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), represents nearly 50% of the worlds defense budget, and remains the principal customer of the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems business unit. Several trends are emerging that are shaping customer behavior in this market. U.S. military force structure is shrinking, its platforms are aging, and the tempo of operations and engagements worldwide remains high. The United States current military activity demonstrates the value of systems solutions that allow all systems to communicate with each other, to operate over longer ranges, are unmanned and provide the advantages of precision, persistence and selective engagement. These factors are driving the U.S. DoD, along with militaries worldwide, to focus on ways to transform their forces and the way they operate. Military Transformation The transformation in forces is evidenced by a trend toward smaller, but more capable and more technologically advanced force structures. The transformation in acquisition is evidenced by an increasing trend toward spiral development programs, cooperative international development programs and a demonstrated willingness to explore new forms of acquisition and ownership including the lease of military support aircraft. Institutions and events continue to shape the defense industrial environment. From an institutional perspective, the establishment of the Homeland Defense and U.S. Northern Command are creating new organizations with responsibilities for national airspace control, coastal protection and civil support. The creation of the U.S. Strategic Command is consolidating responsibilities for global strike, integrated missile defense, information operations, command, control, communications and computers, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaisance into a single organization. Events like Operation Enduring Freedom and the continuing war on global terrorism reaffirms the need for the rapid projection of decisive combat power around the world and emphasizes the need for new capabilities and solutions for the warfighter. Toward that end, the DoD is fully committed to a transformation that will achieve and maintain advantages through changes in operational concepts, organizational structure and technologies that significantly improve warfighting capabilities. Competitive environment The global competitive environment continues to intensify, with increased focus on the U.S. defense market, the worlds largest and most attractive. Military Aircraft and Missile Systems faces strong competition in all market segments, primarily from Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, EADS and Northrop Grumman. The financial problems plaguing some domestic industry competitors appear to be resolved, enabling them to acquire new assets and compete more vigorously. EADS continues to strategically build a presence in the U.S. market through building its North American operations and by partnering with U.S. defense companies. Continued industry consolidation and market concentration was marked by the acquisition of TRW by Northrop Grumman. Northrops position in the UAV, space, systems integration, and strike markets has been strengthened. However, all prime contractors continue to partner or serve as major suppliers to each other on various programs. At the lower tiers, consolidation persists and select companies have been positioning for larger roles, especially in the Aerospace Support market. In addition to leveraging its internal resources and capabilities, the Company is creating a competitive advantage by developing global strategic relationships to provide superior value for its customers, both in the U.S. and abroad. 33 Summary Events like nuclear proliferation in North Korea, Operation Enduring Freedom and the continued war on terrorism, highlight the fact that our National Security goals are not rhetorical. There is an immediate and a durable need to maintain strong U.S. defense capabilities covering a very broad spectrum of threats and responses. Near term DoD budgets have increased, and longer range forecasts expect DoD budgets to grow faster than anticipated prior to September 11, 2001. However, with a softening global economy and anticipated federal budget tensions, allocations to DoD procurement are unlikely to increase significantly. This suggests that the DoD will continue to focus on affordability strategies emphasizing network centric operations, long range strike, unmanned air combat and reconnaissance vehicles, precision guided weapons and continued privatization of logistics and support activities as a means to improve overall effectiveness while maintaining control over costs. The Companys capabilities and programs are well suited to provide the military capabilities essential to meet the challenges facing our nation. Space and Communications (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $10,967 $10,364 $8,039 % Of Total Company Revenues 20% 18% 16% Operating Earnings (Loss) $357 $619 $(243) Operating Margins 3.3% 6.0% (3.0%) Research and Development $397 $526 $526 Contractual Backlog $14,941 $13,111 $13,707 Revenues Space and Communications segment revenues were $11.0 billion in 2002, compared with $10.4 billion in 2001 and $8.0 billion in 2000. The segment remains broadly diversified. The contributors to 2002 Space and Communications segment revenues included five market segments: Integrated Battlespace, Missile Defense, Human Space Flight and Exploration, Launch and Satellite and Homeland Security. The increase in revenues from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to increased activity in Missile Defense offset by decreases in Launch and Satellite due to continued market downturn. 2001 revenues were higher than 2000 revenues due primarily to increased activity on Integrated Battlespace programs and the acquisition of Boeing Satellite Systems (BSS) in October 2000. Deliveries of production units were as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 Delta II 3 12 10 Delta IV 1 BSS Satellites 6 7 5 Space and Communications segment revenues for 2003 are projected to be in the $12 billion range. The greatest growth is expected in the Integrated Battlespace market as Space and Communications has become the DoDs leading industry partner in executing the military transformation with the capture of the Future Combat Systems program, Joint Tactical Radio System, and the Family of Advanced Beyond Line of Sight Terminals program. Missile Defense expects continued growth as the Missile Defense Agency continues its emphasis on the development of various missile defense capabilities. Operating Earnings Space and Communications segment operating earnings for 2002 were $357 million compared with $619 million in 2001 and $(243) million in 2000, and the related operating margins were 3.3%, 6.0% and (3.0)% for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The 2002 operating results include a $100 million pre tax charge to write down an equity investment in Teledesic, LLC. Also contributing to the 2002 decreased operating earnings was cost growth on Satellite programs and the continued downturn in the Launch and Commercial Satellite market. The 2000 operating results included a pre tax charge of $505 million associated with the in process research and development from the acquisition of the Hughes space and communications businesses and Autometric businesses, along with $78 million in costs associated with a Delta III demonstration launch in August 2000. The 2002 segment operating margins were reduced from 2001 due to factory cost, schedule performance and a satellite contract termination in the commercial satellite business along with 737 AEW&C development cost growth. The reduced 2002 margins were offset by favorable commercial space contract actions, improved margins for Integrated Battlespace, and Ground based Midcourse Defense program performance. The 2001 operating margins were improved over the 2000 operating margins primarily due to reduced new product development expenses associated with the Delta IV RS 68 engine as it completed developmental engine certification and transitioned to production. The Company projects that 2003 operating earnings will continue to be impacted by new program development expenses but to a lesser degree than in prior years, primarily due to the transition of the Delta IV launch vehicle into production. 34 In February 2002, Space and Communications undertook a reorganization of its commercial satellite manufacturing activities in response to poor performance compounded by unfavorable market conditions. The impact to earnings by Satellite program cost growth was partially offset by favorable contractual actions. The net impact to the year for BSS was a reduction in operating earnings of approximately $146 million. Progress has been made in implementing process improvements and program management best practices, however, factory problems that arise out of acceptance testing continue to impact existing contracts. As a result, completion schedules have slipped which has resulted in exposing the Company to the risk of contract Termination for Default (TFD) notification. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company received a TFD notification on a commercial satellite contract that had an expected delivery beyond the contractual TFD date. The customer no longer required the satellite for their current business base. The Company is currently marketing the satellite, which was adjusted to the estimated net realizable value. Early in the first quarter of 2003, the Company passed the TFD dates for two commercial satellite contracts. Management believes a TFD situation for each of these contracts is not likely to result in a material financial impact due to continuing legal, production, and contractual efforts in work. Certain launch and satellite contracts include provisions for replacement launch services or hardware if specified performance criteria are not met. The Company has historically purchased insurance to cover these obligations when allowed under the terms of the contract. Due to recent events, the current insurance market reflects unusually high premium rates and also suffers from a lack of capacity to handle all insurance requirements. Although the Company does not intend to do so, it may elect to forego the procurement of third party insurance and, instead, retain such risks internally. Management believes the contract cost estimates have sufficient provisions to cover the expected value for these risks. Previously identified market based risks associated with Delta III inventory is being mitigated by a combination of reusing inventory on other Delta programs, customer payments provided to reassign payloads to other launch vehicles, and the retention of existing customer deposits should those customers terminate their contract for Delta III launches. At this time the Delta III inventory is no longer considered a material financial risk. The Sea Launch venture, in which the Company is a 40% partner with RSC Energia (25%) of Russia, Kvaerner ASA (20%) of Norway, and KB Yuzhnoye/PO Yuzhmash (15%) of Ukraine, provides ocean based launch services to commercial satellite customers. The venture had one successful launch in 2002. The Companys investment in this venture as of December 31, 2002, is reported at zero, which reflects the recognition of losses reported by Sea Launch in prior years. The venture incurred losses in 2002, due to the relatively low volume of launches, reflecting a depressed satellite market. The Company has financial exposure with respect to the venture, which relates to guarantees by the Company provided to certain Sea Launch creditors, performance guarantees provided by the Company to a Sea Launch customer of $33 million and financial exposure related to accounts receivable/inventory of $253 million. The exposures related to guarantees are included in the Off Balance Sheet Arrangements discussion and disclosed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company and Lockheed Martin are 50 50 partners in United Space Alliance, which is responsible for all ground processing of the Space Shuttle fleet and for space related operations with the U.S. Air Force. United Space Alliance also performs modifications, testing and checkout operations that are required to ready the Space Shuttle for launch. United Space Alliance operations are performed under cost plus type contracts. The Companys proportionate share of joint venture earnings is recognized as income. The segments operating earnings include earnings of $68 million, $72 million, and $60 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, attributable to United Space Alliance. On February 1, 2003, the country experienced the tragic loss of Space Shuttle Columbia and its seven person crew. The Company is assisting NASA to determine the cause of this accident. This accident did not impact the Companys results of operations for 2002, and it is too early to determine the effect on the Companys business operations for 2003 and beyond. Research and Development Within the Space and Communications businesses the Company continued investing in the new Delta IV expendable launch vehicle which resulted in its successful inaugural commercial launch in November of 2002. This product gives the Company greater access to a portion of the launch market that was previously unavailable with the Delta II rocket alone. 35 In the communications market, the Company is investing to enable connectivity between existing air/ground platforms, increase communications availability and bandwidth through more robust space systems, and leverage innovative communications concepts. Investments were made in Global Situational Awareness concepts to develop communication system architectures to support various business opportunities including Future Combat Systems, Joint Tactical Radio System, FAB T and Global Missile Defense. A major contributor to the Companys support of these DoD transformation programs is the investment in the Boeing Integration Center where the Companys Network Centric Operations concepts are developed in partnership with its customers. The Company also will continue to make focused investments that will lead to the development of next generation space intelligence systems. Space and Communications research and development expense, excluding in process research and development, was $397 million in 2002 compared to $526 million in 2001 and 2000. Significant investment in development programs at the Space and Communications segment continued during 2002. Company sponsored research and development expenditures supported the development of the Delta IV launch vehicle. Delta IV development expense has been reduced by the U.S. Governments participation in developing the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV). AEW&C System research and development program expenses decreased as the effort transitioned to work that is specifically required for the Australian Wedgetail program. Company sponsored research and development levels are expected to decline in 2003 due to the transition of the Delta IV launch vehicle into production. Backlog Total contractual backlog for Space and Communications was $14.9 billion at December 31, 2002 and $13.1 billion at December 31, 2001 and $13.7 billion at December 31, 2000. Space and Communications contractual backlog increased by 14% in 2002 compared to 2001. The 2002 increase is primarily due to orders for Proprietary Programs, an order by the Department of Transportation for Airport Security, a NASA award for space flight payload processing and orders for Delta IV launch vehicles. This increase was partially offset by the declines in commercial satellite backlog due to decreases in new orders and sales on existing orders. Business Environment and Trends Overview Space and Communications products and services, as part of Integrated Defense Systems, will span five distinctive markets: Integrated Battlespace, Missile Defense, Homeland Security, Human Space Flight and Exploration, and Commercial Launch and Satellite. Each of these markets has unique customers and requirements, and therefore, will be discussed individually below. Integrated Battlespace U.S. military force structure is shrinking, its platforms are aging, and the tempo of operations and engagements worldwide remains high. Several of the recent United States military actions have demonstrated the value of systems solutions that allow all systems to communicate with each other; operate over longer ranges; and are unmanned and provide the advantages of precision, persistence and selective engagement. Refer to Military Aircraft and Missile Systems Business Environment and Trends beginning on page 33 for further discussion on Military Transformation. Missile Defense Funding for the missile defense market is primarily driven by the U.S. Government Missile Defense Agency (MDA) budget. The primary thrusts in this market are the continued development and deployment of theater missile defense systems and the Ground based Missile Defense (GMD) program. The overall MDA missile defense budget is approximately $8 billion. There is continued Congressional support for development of strong missile defense capabilities as evidenced by the fact that the fiscal year 2003 budgets were fully funded in all four defense committees by Congress. In January 2002, a new GMD Program Strategy was released in which the MDA stated their objective to put a Test Bed capability in place by September 2004. This Test Bed would allow critical testing of the Ground based Midcourse Defense segment along with the addition of other systems and sensors into the test scenario. These new requirements for a Test Bed and Development Program were baselined by the Company and the U.S. Government in 2002. The resulting contract change was finalized in December 2002. Additionally on December 17, 2002, President George W. Bush called for our nations missile defense capabilities to move from the test only category into a deployed system. The Company, in conjunction with MDA, has initiated efforts to fulfill the direction of the President. Through our leadership position on the Missile Defense National Team and our prime contractor role on the Ground based Midcourse Defense segment program and on the Airborne Laser program, Space and Communications is positioned to maintain its role as MDAs #1 contractor. 36 Homeland Security Since the events of September 11, 2001, the world has permanently changed. The President quickly issued an executive order establishing an Office of Homeland Security. This office was officially designated as a cabinet level department led by Governor Tom Ridge on January 24, 2003. This department will be responsible for a budget of nearly $40 billion annually with a workforce of 170,000 consolidating from 22 disparate agencies. Over the past year, the Company has aligned internally to meet the challenges of the new threat. In June 2002, the Company was chosen to lead the team that installed explosive detection technology for baggage screening in all U.S. airports by December 31, 2002. This was the largest Homeland Security contract awarded to date, representing one of the largest short term projects in government history. The Company is focusing on the federal Homeland Security marketplace, and will leverage its experience and capabilities in network centric operations to enhance the solutions for Homeland Security opportunities. Human Space Flight and Exploration The total human space flight and exploration market is forecasted to be relatively flat over the next ten years. This forecast is based on budget projections for NASA, the primary customer in this market. But within this flat forecast the Company is observing changes in direction and emphasis with the establishment of a new vision and mission. Over the past year, NASA has developed a new Integrated Space Transportation Plan (ISTP) to implement their new vision. This plan is designed to benefit the International Space Station, Space Shuttle program, and the agencys science and research objectives. The new ISTP dedicates more resources to the space station program, provides additional funding to extend the life and enhance the safety and reliability of the agencys orbiter fleet, boosts funding for science based payloads and research, and restructures NASAs Space Launch Initiative. The Space Launch Initiative will now focus on the development of a crew transport vehicle to ferry space station crewmembers, along with a continued technology effort to identify future reusable launch vehicle technologies. The Company is well positioned to join with NASA to help realize their vision using the expertise the Company has gained from its prime contractor role on the Space Shuttle program and the International Space Station and an integral player in the Space Launch Initiative program. As NASAs investigation of the Columbia accident continues the Company may see some budget reprioritizing, but it is far too early in the investigation to speculate on that. What we do know is that this administration is committed to finding the cause of the accident, fixing it, and successfully returning the Space Shuttle fleet back to operational status. We will participate fully in these efforts. Commercial Launch and Satellite The commercial market has softened significantly since the late 1990s in conjunction with the downturn in the telecommunications industry. These markets are now characterized by overcapacity, commodity pricing and limited near term opportunities. The recovery in the commercial satellite market may take several years at which time we believe the market will stabilize in the 15 20 satellites per year range. This recovery in satellite orders should also produce new opportunities in the launch services business. We have taken aggressive actions to right size and restructure our organizations to meet the future commercial demand, while continuing to meet our government customer requirements. In addition, we have worked diligently over the last year to improve processes in our quality, engineering and manufacturing disciplines. We believe Boeing Satellite Systems and Boeing Launch Services (Delta II, III, IV and Sea Launch) are positioned to bring unique and competitive offerings to our commercial customers as their requirements for new or replacement satellites resurfaces. Boeing Capital Corporation (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $994 $815 $545 Operating Earnings $482 $562 $397 Operating Margins 48.5% 69.0% 72.8% Debt $9,465 $7,295 $4,318 Debt to Equity Ratio 5.7 to 1 5.3 to 1 6.4 to 1 Revenues Revenues for BCC consisted principally of income earned on portfolio assets (direct finance leases, operating leases, notes receivable and investments). The major revenue components include commercial aircraft and commercial equipment financing. Interest expense on debt is not included in BCCs operating earnings as the Company reports interest expense below operating earnings on the consolidated statements of operations. However, interest expense of $410 million, $324 million, and $229 million was associated with debt relating to BCC financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Beginning in 2003, interest expense will be reported as a component of operating earnings for BCC. 37 Operating revenues for BCC were $994 million in 2002, compared with $815 million in 2001 and $545 million in 2000. A larger portfolio, resulting from new business volume and portfolio transfers from Boeing over the last two years, is primarily responsible for the increased revenues in 2002 and 2001. Operating Earnings Operating earnings for BCC were $482 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared with $562 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to the impairment and valuation allowance charges recognized in 2002, offset by additional income due to the growth in the portfolio. Operating earnings for 2001 were $562 million compared with $397 million in 2000. The growth in investment in financing assets was principally responsible for the increase. The increase was partially offset by higher provision for losses, and higher operating and other expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recognized a pre tax expense of $426 million primarily in recognition of the deterioration of aircraft values and customer credit ratings. Total impairment expense recognized in 2001 and 2000 was not significant. BCCSegment OtherSegment Consolidated Increased valuation allowance $ 100 $ 80 $ 180 Impairment of investment in equipment trust certificates 13 66 79 Impairment of joint venture aircraft 48 48 Other assets impairments 39 80 119 $ 200 $ 226 $ 426 A pre tax expense of $180 million was recorded to increase the valuation allowance based on the Companys assessment of the adequacy of customer financing reserves. A specific pre tax impairment of $79 million was recorded during the third quarter of 2002 related to a long held investment in ETCs secured by aircraft on lease to United Airlines (United). The write down was based on the decline in credit ratings of United, the long term maturity of the investment and the decline in the underlying aircraft collateral valuations. The ultimate realization of this investment will depend upon legal developments in Uniteds bankruptcy proceedings and Uniteds ability to meet its related contractual obligations. A specific pre tax impairment of $48 million was recorded related to a joint venture investment that was established to lease and eventually convert 24 727 passenger aircraft to full cargo configuration. Based on the Companys assessment of current market conditions and the average age of the aircraft (averaging over twenty years old), the Company recorded an impairment for its share of the adjustment to estimated fair market value for the joint ventures 727 aircraft. The BCC portfolio does not include any 727 aircraft other than those held through this joint venture. Other pre tax charges of $119 million related to valuations of other assets in the portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2002. Included in this amount was a $66 million impairment charge recorded during the fourth quarter of 2002 on the return of 24 717s to the Company by AMR Corporation. The total BCC portfolio was $11.8 billion as of December 31, 2002, compared with $9.2 billion as of December 31, 2001. At December 31, 2002, BCCs debt to equity ratio was 5.7 to 1, compared with 5.3 to 1 at December 31, 2001. Business Environment and Trends BCC acts as a captive finance subsidiary for the Company and provides market based lease and loan financing primarily to airlines that purchase or lease commercial aircraft manufactured by the Company or others. BCC competes for aircraft finance business with other finance companies, commercial banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. BCC also competes in the commercial equipment leasing and finance markets, primarily in the United States, against a number of large ticket competitors, mainly heavily capitalized leasing companies and relationship banks. Approximately 22% of BCCs portfolio has been generated from commercial equipment leasing and financing activities. Commercial equipment consists of executive aircraft, machine tools and production equipment, containers and marine equipment, chemical, oil and gas equipment and other equipment. New business volume of BCC is funded with debt obtained in the capital markets, cash from operations, and contributions from the Company. 38 Published sources and recent market transactions indicate that values for various aircraft types used as collateral in BCCs portfolio remained depressed. At the same time, the credit ratings of many airlines, particularly in the United States, have continued to deteriorate. A substantial portion of BCCs portfolio is concentrated among commercial airline customers. Certain customers have filed for bankruptcy protection or requested lease or loan restructurings; these negotiations were in various stages as of December 31, 2002. These bankruptcies or restructurings could have a material adverse effect on the Companys earnings, cash flows or financial position. United filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on December 9, 2002. As of the filing date, the Company has not reached agreement with United on a restructuring of its various transactions. Future negotiations may result in changes to the agreements under which United has agreed to perform. So long as United remains in bankruptcy, United has the right to reject or abandon its transaction with the Company. In the event that future negotiations or proceedings result in the return of a substantial number of aircraft, there could be a material adverse effect on the Companys earnings, cash flows or financial position at least until such time as the aircraft are sold or redeployed for adequate consideration. As of December 31, 2002, there were $311 million of assets, principally commercial aircraft that were held for sale or re lease at BCC, of which $308 million were not yet identified with a firm contract to sell or place on lease. Additionally, approximately $207 million of BCCs assets are currently scheduled to come off lease in 2003. The inability of BCC to sell such assets or place such assets into revenue generating service could pose a potential risk to results of operations should some of these assets be deemed to be impaired. Airlines regularly utilize a special purpose entity (SPE) known as a Pass Through Trust. The Pass Through Trust enables the airline to aggregate a large number of aircraft secured notes into one trust vehicle, facilitating the issuance of larger bonds called Pass Through Certificates (PTCs). The most common form of PTCs issued by airlines is the EETCs. EETCs provide investors with tranched rights to cash flows from a financial instrument, as well as a collateral position in the related asset. While the underlying classes of equipment notes vary by maturity and or coupon depending upon tenor or level of subordination of the specific equipment notes and their corresponding claim on the aircraft, the basic function of the Pass Through Trust in an EETC remains: to passively hold separate debt investments to enhance liquidity for investors, whom in turn pass this liquidity benefit directly to the airline in the form of lower coupon and or greater debt capacity. BCC participates in several EETCs as an investor. The EETC investments are related to customers the Company believes have less than investment grade credit. BCC also utilizes certain SPEs to isolate individual transactions for legal liability, perfect security interest from the perspective of the Company and a third party lender in certain leveraged transactions, and realize certain income and sales tax benefits. These SPEs are fully consolidated in the Companys financial statements. In December 2002, BCC completed an asset securitization that raised $299 million of secured debt through the use of a bank sponsored Commercial Paper Conduit (C/P Conduit). As collateral for the debt, BCC transferred $331 million of assets from its portfolio to the C/P Conduit. These portfolio assets consisted of the cash flows associated with specific financing leases, notes and other receivables and operating leases. BCC also assigned to the C/P Conduit perfected security interests in $278 million of collateral underlying the transferred portfolio assets. The collateral pledged indirectly provides the C/P Conduit with additional protection in the event that the cash flows from the leases and notes are insufficient to cover the total debt outstanding under the transaction. The secured debt and securitized assets remain on BCCs balance sheet. Other Other segment earnings were $(424) million in 2002, $(354) million in 2001, and $43 million in 2000. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, operating earnings of $44 million and $23 million were attributable to four C 17 transport aircraft on lease to the United Kingdom Royal Air Force. These leases began in 2001. Offsetting the operating earnings of the C 17 leases were increases in losses during both 2002 and 2001 primarily due to increases in intercompany guarantees and asset impairments, lease accounting differences and other subsidies related to BCC. See Note 24. Research and development expense attributable to the Other segment was $129 million in 2002, $294 million in 2001, and $84 million in 2000. Research and development activities in the Other segment relate primarily to Connexion by BoeingSM and, to a lesser extent, Air Traffic Management. Astro Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, operates as a captive insurance company. This subsidiary enables the Companys exposures to be insured at the lowest possible cost to the Company regardless of whether the market is overpriced. In addition, it provides flexibility to the Company in handling its changing risk financing needs and provides access to the reinsurance markets. Currently, Astro Ltd. insures aviation liability, workers compensation, general liability, property, as well as various smaller risk liability insurances. 39 Events of September 11, 2001 On September 11, 2001, the United States was the target of severe terrorist attacks that involved the use of U.S. commercial aircraft manufactured by the Company. These attacks resulted in a significant loss of life and property and caused major disruptions in business activities and in the U.S. economy overall. See Note 3. Employees and Labor Relations As of December 31, 2002, the Companys principal collective bargaining agreements were with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM) representing 20% of employees (current agreements expiring in May 2004, and September and October 2005); the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA) representing 13% of employees (current agreements expiring February 2004 and December 2005); and the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) representing 4% of employees (current agreements expiring May 2003, April 2004, and September 2005). The Companys workforce level was 166,000 at December 31, 2002. Contingent Items Various legal proceedings, claims and investigations related to products, contracts and other matters are pending against the Company. Most significant legal proceedings are related to matters covered by insurance. Major contingencies are discussed below. The Company is subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment, including those for discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. Due in part to their complexity and pervasiveness, such requirements have resulted in the Company being involved with related legal proceedings, claims and remediation obligations since the 1980s. The Company routinely assesses, based on in depth studies, expert analyses and legal reviews, its contingencies, obligations and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites, including assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other responsible parties who have and have not agreed to a settlement and of recoveries from insurance carriers. The Companys policy is to immediately accrue and charge to current expense identified exposures related to environmental remediation sites based on estimates of investigation, cleanup and monitoring costs to be incurred. The costs incurred and expected to be incurred in connection with such activities have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact to the Companys financial position. With respect to results of operations, related charges have averaged less than 2% of annual net earnings. Such accruals as of December 31, 2002, without consideration for the related contingent recoveries from insurance carriers, are less than 2% of total liabilities. Because of the regulatory complexities and risk of unidentified contaminated sites and circumstances, the potential exists for environmental remediation costs to be materially different from the estimated costs accrued for identified contaminated sites. However, based on all known facts and expert analyses, the Company believes it is not reasonably likely that identified environmental contingencies will result in additional costs that would have a material adverse impact to the Companys financial position or operating results and cash flow trends. The Company is subject to U.S. Government investigations from which civil, criminal or administrative proceedings could result. Such proceedings could involve claims by the government for fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages, restitution and or forfeitures. Under government regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating divisions or subdivisions, can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts, or lose its export privileges, based on the results of investigations. The Company believes, based upon all available information, that the outcome of any such government disputes and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or continuing operations. In 1991, the U.S. Navy notified McDonnell Douglas (now a subsidiary of the Company) and General Dynamics Corporation (the Team) that it was terminating for default the Teams contract for development and initial production of the A 12 aircraft. The Team filed a legal action to contest the Navys default termination, to assert its rights to convert the termination to one for the convenience of the Government, and to obtain payment for work done and costs incurred on the A 12 contract but not paid to date. As of December 31, 2002, inventories included approximately $583 million of recorded costs on the A 12 contract, against which the Company has established a loss provision of $350 million. The amount of the provision, which was established in 1990, was based on McDonnell Douglass belief, supported by an opinion of outside counsel, that the termination for default would be converted to a termination for convenience, and that the best estimate of possible loss on termination for convenience was $350 million. 40 On August 31, 2001, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a decision after trial upholding the U.S. Governments default termination of the A 12 contract on the grounds that the Team could not meet the revised contract schedule unilaterally imposed by the U.S. Government. This followed an earlier trial court decision in favor of the contractors and reversal of that initial decision on appeal. The Team appealed that decision to the Court of Appeals and is awaiting a decision. The Team also obtained a stay of the trial courts judgment to prevent the Navy from collecting any amounts prior to the decision by the Court of Appeals. If, after all judicial proceedings have ended, the courts determine that a termination for default was appropriate, the Company would incur an additional loss of approximately $275 million, consisting principally of remaining inventory costs and adjustments, and would be required to pay the U.S. Government one half of the unliquidated progress payments of $1,350 million plus statutory interest from February 1991 (currently totaling approximately $1,040 million). The loss to the Company would total approximately $1,465 million in pre tax charges. Although the Court of Federal Claims sustained the default termination in 2001, the Company believes that the courts ruling is contrary to law and fact and that the loss provision established by McDonnell Douglas in 1990 continues to provide adequately for the reasonably possible reduction in value of A 12 net contracts in process as of December 31, 2002. Final resolution of the A 12 litigation will depend upon the outcome of further proceedings or possible negotiations with the U.S. Government. The Company is a defendant in seven employment discrimination matters in which class certification is sought or has been granted. These matters are pending in Seattle, Los Angeles, St. Louis, Tulsa, and Wichita. The Company intends to continue its aggressive defense of these cases. It is not possible to predict what impact, if any, these cases could have on the financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Interest rate risk The Company has financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk, principally short term investments, fixed rate debt obligations, and customer financing assets and liabilities. Historically, the Company has not experienced material gains or losses due to interest rate changes. Additionally, the Company uses interest rate swaps to manage exposure to interest rate changes. Based on the current holdings of short term investments, as well as related swaps, the unhedged exposure to interest rate risk is not material for these instruments. Fixed rate debt obligations issued by the Company are generally not puttable until maturity and are not actively traded by the Company in the market. Therefore, exposure to interest rate risk is not believed to be material for the Companys fixed rate debt. Boeing Capital Corporations assets and liabilities, both fixed rate and floating rate, may be subject to interest rate risk to the extent that the maturities and repricing characteristics of the liabilities do not perfectly match those of the assets. The types and terms of borrowing and hedging instruments that are available to BCC in the market and possible changes in asset terms limit BCCs ability to match assets and liabilities. BCC attempts to keep this mismatch risk small, partly through the use of interest rate swaps, and does not believe it is materially exposed to gains or losses due to interest rate changes. BCC has used public market information and common valuation methods to determine the fair value of its assets and liabilities. The estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts BCC could realize in a current market exchange, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methods could have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. 41 At December 31, 2002, the book values of BCCs assets and liabilities were approximately $13 billion and $11 billion, respectively. BCC uses duration gap analysis to estimate the impact of changes in interest rates. Potential changes in twelve month net interest income and in the current discounted value of the assets and liabilities are calculated based on the amount and timing of cash flows projected from each. At December 31, 2002, the Company estimated that if market interest rates for all maturities were affected by an immediate, one time, 100 basis point increase, BCCs net earnings, taking into account increases in both revenue and interest expense, would have increased by an amount that is immaterial to the results of operations. Additionally, although the assets and liabilities impacted by a change in interest rates are generally not traded, BCC estimated that the net present value of these assets and liabilities would have changed by an amount that is immaterial to its financial position. Foreign currency exchange rate risk The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers in foreign currencies. The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts and options from time to time to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted foreign denominated payments and receipts related to its ongoing business and operational financing activities. Foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2002, a 10% unfavorable exchange rate movement in the Companys portfolio of foreign currency forward contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized loss of $30 million. Consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. When taken together, these forward contracts and the offsetting underlying commitments do not create material market risk. Commodity price risk The Company is subject to commodity price risk relating principally to energy used in production. The Company periodically uses commodity derivatives, such as fixed price purchase commitments, to hedge against potentially unfavorable price changes of commodities. Commodity price exposure related to unhedged contracts is not material. 42 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Information Is Subject to Risk and Uncertainty Certain statements in this report may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, intends, plans, projects, believes, estimates, and similar expressions are used to identify these forward looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward looking statements. As a result, these statements speak only as of the date they were made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our actual results and future trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including the continued operation, viability and growth of major airline customers and non airline customers (such as the U.S. Government); adverse developments in the value of collateral securing customer and other financings; the occurrence of any significant collective bargaining labor dispute; the Companys successful execution of internal performance plans, price escalation, production rate increases and decreases (including any reduction in or termination of an aircraft product), acquisition and divestiture plans, and other cost reduction and productivity efforts; charges from any future SFAS No. 142 review; an adverse development in rating agency credit ratings or assessments; the actual outcomes of certain pending sales campaigns and U.S. and foreign government procurement activities, including the timing of procurement of tankers by the U.S. Department of Defense; the cyclical nature of some of the Companys businesses; unanticipated financial market changes which may impact pension plan assumptions; domestic and international competition in the defense, space and commercial areas; continued integration of acquired businesses; performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and customers; factors that could result in significant and prolonged disruption to air travel worldwide (including future terrorist attacks); any additional impacts from the attacks of September 11, 2001; global trade policies; worldwide political stability; domestic and international economic conditions; price escalation; the outcome of political and legal processes, including uncertainty regarding government funding of certain programs; changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government or foreign government defense and space budgets; termination of government or commercial contracts due to unilateral government or customer action or failure to perform; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; legal proceedings; tax settlements with the IRS; and other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in the Companys SEC filings, including, without limitation, the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001 and the Forms 10 Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2002, June 30, 2002 and September 30, 2002. 11 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND STANDARDS ISSUED AND NOT YET IMPLEMENTED Application of Critical Accounting Policies The Companys primary operating segments are Commercial Airplanes, Military Aircraft and Missile Systems, Space and Communications, and Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The following is a summary of the Companys most critical accounting policies. Contract accounting Contract accounting is used predominately by the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems and Space and Communications segments. The majority of the business conducted in these segments is performed under contracts for the U.S. Government and foreign governments that extend over a number of years. The process to estimate the total contract cost revenue relationship results in the development of gross margin and cost of sales percentages. These percentages are utilized in the recognition of earnings and are significant factors in contract accounting. The amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentages to the amount of revenue recognized for each contract. Total contract revenue estimates are based on the negotiated contract price modified by assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance, and contract terms that provide for the adjustment of prices in the event of variations from projected inflationary trends. Total contract cost estimates are based in a large part on historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections, and information provided by suppliers. Factors that influence these estimates include technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset utilization, anticipated labor agreements, and inflationary trends. Revenues under contracts with fixed prices are generally recognized as deliveries are made. For certain fixed price contracts that require substantial performance over an extended period before deliveries begin, revenues are recorded based on the attainment of performance milestones. Revenues under contracts with terms that reimburse for costs incurred plus an agreed upon profit are recorded as costs are incurred. Contracts may contain provisions to earn incentive and award fees if targets are achieved. Incentive and award fees that can be reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentive and award fees that cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded. The development of gross margin and cost of sales percentages involves procedures and personnel in all areas of the Company that provide financial or production information on the status of contracts. This contract management process produces the Companys best estimate of contract cost and contract revenue. Estimates of each significant contracts cost and revenue are reviewed and reassessed quarterly. Changes in these estimates result in recognition of cumulative adjustments to the contract profit in the period in which changes are made. The experience over the past two years has resulted in a range of plus or minus 0.5% for the combined gross margin of all contracts in the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems and the Space and Communications segments. If combined gross margin for all contracts in the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems and the Space and Communications segments for all of 2002 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 0.5% it would have increased or decreased income for the year by approximately $125 million. 12 Program accounting The Company uses program accounting for its 7 series commercial airplane programs. Program accounting is a method of accounting for the costs of certain products manufactured for delivery under production type contracts where profitability is realized over multiple contracts and years. Under program accounting, inventoriable production costs (including overhead), program tooling costs and warranty costs are accumulated and charged to revenue by program instead of by individual units or contracts. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long term production effort for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. To establish the relationship of revenue to cost of sales, program accounting requires estimates of (a) the number of units to be produced and sold in a program, (b) the period over which the units can reasonably be expected to be produced, and (c) their expected selling prices, production costs, program tooling, and warranty costs for the total program. The reliance on estimates in the use of program accounting requires the demonstrated ability to reliably estimate the cost revenue relationship for the defined program accounting quantity. The factors that must be estimated include selling price, labor and employee benefit costs, material costs, procured parts and major component costs, and overhead costs. To meet this requirement the Company employs a rigorous estimating process that is reviewed and updated on a quarterly basis. Changes in estimate are recognized on a prospective basis. Underlying all estimates used for program accounting is the assumed market and the corresponding production rates. The program accounting quantity is established based upon the assumed market. The total program revenue is determined by estimating the model mix and sales price for all unsold units within the accounting quantity added together with the revenue for all undelivered units under contract. The sales prices for all undelivered units within the accounting quantity include an escalation adjustment that is based on projected escalation rates. Cost estimates are based in a large part on historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections, and information provided by suppliers. Factors that influence these estimates include production rates, internal and subcontractor performance trends, asset utilization, anticipated labor agreements, and inflationary trends. The Company recognizes revenue for commercial airplanes when a unit is completed and accepted by the customer. The revenue recognized is the price negotiated with the customer including special features adjusted by an escalation formula. The amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage for the total remaining program to the amount of revenue recognized for the quarter. Because of the higher unit production costs experienced at the beginning of a new airplane program (known as the learning curve effect), the actual costs incurred for production of the early units in the program will exceed the amount reported as cost of sales for those units. This difference known as deferred production costs is included in inventory along with unamortized tooling costs. The experience of the last two years, with all programs being relatively mature, has been that estimate changes due to model mix, escalation, cost performance, and accounting quantity increases have resulted in a range of plus or minus 0.5% for the combined gross margin of all commercial airplane programs. If combined gross margin for all commercial airplane programs for all of 2002 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 0.5% it would have increased or decreased income for the year by approximately $122 million. Aircraft valuation Used aircraft under trade in agreements The Company enters into certain trade in agreements to purchase used aircraft from customers at a specific price at a future point in time when those customers purchase new aircraft from the Company. In the event the Company accepts an aircraft under a trade in agreement, the aircraft purchased by the Company serves as collateral to offset amounts paid by the Company to the customer. Obligations recorded from trade in aircraft agreements are measured as the difference between gross amounts payable to customers and the estimated fair value of the collateral. The fair value of collateral is determined using a process based on the net present value of expected future cash flows from the trade in aircraft, assuming the most likely market placement of the aircraft. The first step in this process uses the Companys assessment of the market for each trade in aircraft, which in most instances begins years before the return of the aircraft. There are several possible markets to which the Company continually pursues opportunities to place used aircraft. These markets include, but are not limited to, (1) the resale market, which could potentially include the cost of long term storage, (2) the leasing market, with the potential for refurbishment costs to meet the leasing customers requirements, or (3) the scrap market. Collateral valuation varies significantly depending on which market the Company determines is most likely for each aircraft. On a quarterly basis, the Company updates its valuation analysis based on the actual activities associated with placing each aircraft into a market. This quarterly collateral valuation process yields results that are typically lower than residual value estimates by independent sources and tends to more accurately reflect results upon the actual placement of the aircraft. 13 Based on the best market information available at the time, the Company deemed it probable that it would be obligated to perform on trade in agreements with gross amounts payable to customers totaling $1,370 million and $1,340 million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Accounts payable and other liabilities included $156 million and $189 million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, which represents the trade in aircraft exposure related to these trade in agreements. Using a measurement date of December 31, 2002, had the estimate of collateral value used to calculate its obligation related to trade in agreements been 10% higher or lower than the Companys actual assessment, accounts payable and other liabilities would have decreased or increased by approximately $121 million. The Company continually updates its assessment of the likelihood of its trade in aircraft purchase obligations and continues to monitor all these obligations for adverse developments. Asset valuation for equipment under operating lease, held for re lease and collateral on receivables The fair value of owned assets (equipment under operating leases and assets held for re lease) and collateral on receivables is periodically assessed to determine if the fair value is less than the carrying value. Differences between carrying value and fair value are considered in determining the allowance for losses on receivables and, in certain circumstances, recorded as impairment for owned assets. The Company uses the average published value from multiple sources based on the type and age of the aircraft to determine the fair value of aircraft. Under certain circumstances, the Company applies judgment based on the attributes of the specific aircraft to determine fair value, usually when the features or utilization of the aircraft varies significantly from the more generic aircraft attributes covered by outside publications. Impairment review for equipment under operating leases and held for re lease The Company reviews these assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. An asset under operating lease or held for re lease is considered impaired when the expected undiscounted cash flow over the remaining useful life is less than the book value. Various assumptions are used when determining the expected undiscounted cash flow. These assumptions include lease rates, lease term(s), periods in which the asset may be held in preparation for a follow on lease, maintenance costs, remarketing costs and the life of the asset. The determination of expected lease rates is generally based on outside publications. The Company uses historical information and current economic trends to determine the remaining assumptions. When impairment is indicated for an asset, the amount of impairment loss is the excess of carrying value over fair value. The Company estimates that had the fair value of such assets deemed impaired during 2002 been 10% higher or lower at the time each specific impairment had been taken, the impairment expense would have decreased or increased by approximately $6 million. The Company is unable to predict the magnitude of any future impairments. Allowance for losses on receivables The allowance for losses on receivables (valuation allowance) is a valuation account used to provide for potential impairment of receivables on the balance sheet. The balance is an accounting estimate of probable but unconfirmed losses in the receivable portfolio. The valuation allowance relates to two components of receivables: (a) specifically identified receivables that are evaluated individually for impairment, and (b) pools of receivables that are evaluated for impairment. A specific receivable is reviewed for impairment when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect amounts due according to the contractual terms of the receivable agreement. Factors considered in assessing uncollectibility include a customers extended delinquency, requests for restructuring and filing for bankruptcy. A specific impairment allowance is provided based on the difference between the carrying value of the receivable and the estimated fair value of the related collateral. The Company reviews the adequacy of the general valuation allowance attributable to the remaining pool of receivables by assessing both the collateral exposure and the applicable default rate. Collateral exposure for a particular receivable is the excess of the carrying value over the applicable collateral value of the related asset. A receivable with an estimated collateral value in excess of the carrying value is considered to have no collateral exposure. The applicable default rate is determined using two components: customer credit ratings and weighted average remaining portfolio term. Credit ratings are identified for each customer in the portfolio. Customer credit ratings are updated based on current rating agency information or the Companys best estimates. 14 For each credit rating category, the collateral exposure is multiplied by an applicable historical default rate, yielding a credit adjusted collateral exposure. Historical default rates are published by Standard & Poors reflecting both the customer credit rating and the weighted average remaining portfolio term. The sum of the credit adjusted collateral exposures generates an initial estimate of the general valuation allowance. In recognition of the uncertainty of the ultimate loss experience and relatively long duration of the portfolio, a range of reasonably possible outcomes of the portfolios credit adjusted collateral exposure is calculated by varying the applicable default rate by approximately plus and minus 15%. The valuation allowance recorded represents the best estimate within the resulting range of credit adjusted collateral exposure, factoring in considerations of risk of individual credits, current and projected economic and political conditions, and prior loss experience. The resulting range of the credit adjusted collateral exposure as of December 31, 2002, was approximately $280 million to $355 million. The Company adjusted the valuation allowance to $342 million at December 31, 2002. Goodwill impairment The Company accounts for its goodwill under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. This statement requires an impairment only approach to accounting for goodwill. Because the composition of the Company has changed significantly due to various acquisitions, goodwill constitutes a significant portion of the Companys long term assets. As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company recorded a pre tax goodwill impairment charge of $2,410 million during the first quarter of 2002. The SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment model is a two step process. First, it requires a comparison of the book value of net assets to the fair value of the related operations that have goodwill assigned to them. If the fair value is determined to be less than book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. In this process, a fair value for goodwill is estimated, based in part on the fair value of the operations used in the first step, and is compared to its carrying value. The shortfall of the fair value below carrying value represents the amount of goodwill impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires goodwill to be tested for impairment annually at the same time every year, and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that an impairment may exist. The Company selected April 1 as its annual testing date. The Company estimates the fair values of the related operations using discounted cash flows. The forecasts of future cash flows are based on the Companys best estimate of future revenues and operating costs, based primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements, and general market conditions, and are subject to review and approval by senior management and the Board of Directors. Changes in these forecasts could cause a particular operating group to either pass or fail the first step in the SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment model, which could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded. The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an appropriate discount rate derived from the Companys market capitalization plus a suitable control premium at the date of evaluation. Therefore, changes in the stock price will also affect the amount of impairment recorded. At the date of the previous impairment, a 10% increase in the value of Boeing common stock would have reduced the impairment charge recorded in the first quarter of 2002 by approximately $190 million. A 10% decrease in the value of Boeing common stock would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $160 million. Postretirement plans The Company sponsors various pension plans covering substantially all employees. The Company also provides postretirement benefit plans other than pensions, consisting principally of health care coverage, to eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. The liabilities and annual income or expense of the Companys pension and other postretirement plans are determined using methodologies that involve several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the long term rate of asset return, and medical trend (rate of growth for medical costs). Not all net periodic pension income or expense is recognized in net earnings in the year incurred because it is allocated to production as product costs, and a portion remains in inventory at the end of a reporting period. The Company uses a discount rate that is based on a point in time estimate as of the September 30 measurement date. This rate is determined based on a review of long term, high quality corporate bonds as of the measurement date and use of models that match projected benefit payments of the Companys major United States pension and other postretirement plans to coupons and maturities from high quality bonds. A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate would decrease the 2002 pension and other postretirement liabilities by approximately $1,000 million (3%) and $230 million (3%), respectively, and decrease the 2002 net periodic pension and other postretirement expense by approximately $16 million and $11 million, respectively. A 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase the 2002 pension and other postretirement liabilities by approximately $1,250 million (3.5%) and $250 million (3.5%), respectively, and increase the 2002 net periodic pension and other postretirement expense by approximately $18 million and $13 million, respectively. 15 Net periodic pension costs include an underlying expected long term rate of asset return. In developing this assumption, the Company looks at a number of factors: a review of asset class return by several of the Companys trust fund investment advisors, long term inflation assumptions, and long term historical returns for the Companys plans. The expected long term rate of asset return is based on a diversified portfolio including domestic and international equities, fixed income, real estate, private equities and uncorrelated assets. Pension income or expense is especially sensitive to changes in the long term rate of asset return. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the expected long term rate of asset return would have increased or decreased 2002 pension income by approximately $95 million. The 2002 postretirement benefit obligation for non pension plans reflects a significant increase in medical trend. Recent losses due to higher than expected increases in medical claims costs have created an unrecognized loss in 2002. The Company increased its short term medical trend for 2003 to reflect the revised expectations of continued cost increases in the next few years. Standards Issued and Not Yet Implemented In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which is effective January 1, 2003. This standard addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated retirement costs. The Company has determined that the implementation of this standard will not have a material effect on its financial statements. In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. This standard requires costs associated with exit or disposal activities to be recognized when they are incurred. The requirements of SFAS No. 146 apply prospectively to activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, and as such, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the impact of adopting these new rules until and unless it undertakes relevant activities in future periods. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of the Indebtedness of Others, which clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, relating to a guarantors accounting for and disclosures of certain guarantees issued. FIN 45 requires enhanced disclosures for certain guarantees. It also will require certain guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31, 2002, including certain third party guarantees, to be initially recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. For guarantees issued on or before December 31, 2002, liabilities are recorded when and if payments become probable and estimable. The Company expects FIN 45 to have the general effect of delaying recognition for a portion of the revenue for product sales that are accompanied by certain third party guarantees. The financial statement recognition provisions are effective prospectively, and the Company cannot reasonably estimate the impact of adopting FIN 45 until guarantees are issued or modified in future periods, at which time their results will be initially reported in the financial statements. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements discussion. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, relating to consolidation of certain entities. First, FIN 46 will require identification of the Companys participation in variable interests entities (VIE), which are defined as entities with a level of invested equity that is not sufficient to fund future activities to permit them to operate on a stand alone basis, or whose equity holders lack certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest. For entities identified as VIE, FIN 46 sets forth a model to evaluate potential consolidation based on an assessment of which party to the VIE, if any, bears a majority of the exposure to its expected losses, or stands to gain from a majority of its expected returns. FIN 46 also sets forth certain disclosures regarding interests in VIE that are deemed significant, even if consolidation is not required. The Company is currently assessing the application of FIN 46 as it relates to its variable interests. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements discussion. 16 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The Company operates in four principal segments: Commercial Airplanes, Military Aircraft and Missile Systems, Space and Communications, and BCC. All other activities fall within the Other segment, principally made up of Boeing Technology, Connexion by BoeingSM and Air Traffic Management. Consolidated Results of Operations (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $54,069 $58,198 $51,321 Operating Earnings $3,868 $3,896 $3,058 Operating Margins 7.2% 6.7% 6.0% Net Earnings $492 $2,827 $2,128 Research and Development* $1,639 $1,936 $1,998 Effective Income Tax Rate 27.1% 20.7% 29.0% Contractual Backlog $104,173 $106,591 $120,600 *Includes In Process Research & Development in 2000 Revenues Revenues for 2002 were $54.1 billion compared with $58.2 billion in 2001 and $51.3 billion in 2000. The lower revenues in 2002 principally reflect decreased deliveries in the Commercial Airplanes segment. Fewer commercial airplane deliveries in 2002 were offset by growth of $1.5 billion in the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment revenues. The higher revenues in 2001 compared to 2000 principally reflect increased deliveries in the Commercial Airplanes segment, but also reflect an increase in Space and Communications segment revenues. Based on current schedules and plans, the Company projects total 2003 revenues to be approximately $49 billion. Operating Earnings Operating earnings for 2002 were $3,868 million compared with $3,896 million in 2001 and $3,058 million in 2000. 2001 operating earnings were significantly impacted by $935 million of pre tax special charges related to the events of September 11, 2001. See Note 3. Excluding the September 11, 2001, special charges, operating earnings in 2002 would have been $963 million lower than 2001 operating earnings. This decrease in operating earnings reflected lower commercial airplane deliveries offset by production efficiencies in the Commercial Airplanes segment and higher deliveries of Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment products. Space and Communications segment operating earnings also decreased as commercial satellite losses offset growth and performance on other programs. In addition, $426 million of asset impairment charges and additional valuation reserves related to customer and commercial financing assets were recorded by BCC and the Other segment during 2002. Operating earnings of $3,896 million for 2001 were $838 million higher than 2000 operating earnings of $3,058 million. Excluding the September 11, 2001, pre tax special charges of $935 million, operating earnings in 2001 would have been $1,773 million higher than 2000 operating earnings. The increase in operating earnings during 2001 was primarily related to higher commercial airplane deliveries and an increase in Space and Communications segment operating earnings. 17 As indicated in Note 16, the Company has generated significant net periodic benefit income related to pensions: $404 million in 2002, $920 million in 2001, and $428 million in 2000. Not all net periodic pension benefit income or expense is recognized in net earnings in the year incurred because it is allocated to production as product costs, and a portion remains in inventory at the end of a reporting period. Accordingly, the operating earnings for 2002, 2001 and 2000, included $537 million, $785 million and $403 million, respectively, of pension income. Due to the significant investment losses incurred in recent years, the expected future market related value of assets is expected to decrease significantly in the near future. This decrease, when combined with the decrease of 25 basis points in the expected long term asset return is expected to reduce pension income reflected in operating earnings from $537 million in 2002 to approximately $75 million in 2003. In 2004, the pension impact to earnings will depend on market conditions, but based upon current assumptions, the Company expects to recognize a non cash pension expense estimated to range from $200 million to $300 million. Net Earnings Net earnings of $492 million for 2002 were $2,335 million lower than 2001 earnings of $2,827 million. The decrease in net earnings principally reflected a $1,827 million charge recorded in 2002 upon the adoption of SFAS No. 142, decreased commercial airplane deliveries, increased customer financing charges and higher commercial satellite production costs. Other income decreased $276 million in 2002, to $42 million in 2002 from $318 million in 2001. Other income in 2001 included $210 million of interest income associated with federal income tax audit settlements; 2002 did not include similar interest income. Also contributing to lower other income in 2002 was $46 million of losses on long held equity investments. Interest and debt expense increased $80 million in 2002, to $730 million in 2002 from $650 million in 2001. The increased interest expense resulted from increased debt, primarily associated with the increased customer and commercial financing activities of BCC. Interest expense is expected to increase concurrent with increasing future financing activity. Net earnings of $2,827 million for 2001 were $699 million higher than 2000 net earnings of $2,128 million. The increase in net earnings principally reflected increased operating earnings associated with the increase in revenue for 2001. Net earnings in 2001 were significantly reduced by $935 million of pre tax special charges ($633 million after tax) related to the events of September 11, 2001. The increase in net earnings for 2001 over 2000 also reflected the in process research and development expense of $557 million ($348 million after tax) that was recognized in 2000, of which $500 million was associated with the acquisition of the Hughes space and communications businesses, which were renamed Boeing Satellite Systems. Other income decreased $68 million in 2001, to $318 million in 2001 from $386 million in 2000. The decrease in other income in 2001 principally reflected lower interest income from cash, but was partially offset by higher interest income associated with federal income tax audit settlements ($210 million in 2001, compared with $73 million in 2000). Other income in 2000 also included a $42 million gain on sale of a long held equity investment. Interest and debt expense increased $205 million in 2001, to $650 million in 2001 from $445 million in 2000. The increased interest expense resulted from increased debt, primarily associated with the increased customer and commercial financing activities of BCC. Research and Development Research and development expenditures involve design, development and related test activities for defense systems, new and derivative commercial jet aircraft, advance space, other company sponsored product development, and basic research and development. These expenditures are either charged directly against earnings or are included in amounts allocable as reimbursable overhead costs on U.S. Government contracts. Research and development highlights for each of the major business segments are discussed in Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition. In addition, Boeing Technology, the advanced research and development organization of the Company, focuses on improving its competitive position by investing in certain technologies and processes that apply to multiple business units. Technology investments currently being pursued within Boeing Technology include network centric operations, affordable structures and manufacturing technology, lean and efficient design processes and tools, lean support and service initiatives, advanced platform systems and safe and clean products. 18 Total research and development expense in 2002 was $1,639 million, compared with $1,936 million in 2001 and $1,998 million in 2000. Excluding the $557 million of in process research and development expense in 2000, research and development expense increased $495 million in 2001, principally reflecting increases in the Commercial Airplanes segment and the Other segment, which includes activities relating to Connexion by BoeingSM. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for 2002 was 27.1% compared with 20.7% in 2001 and 29.0% in 2000. The 2002 effective income tax rate of 27.1% varies from the federal statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) and Extraterritorial Income (ETI) Exclusion tax benefits of $195 million. This rate also reflects tax credits, state income taxes and favorable resolution of certain audit issues. The effective income tax rates of 20.7% for 2001 and 29.0% for 2000 also vary from the federal statutory tax rate principally due to FSC benefits of $222 million in 2001 and $291 million in 2000. The 2001 income tax rate also reflects a one time benefit of $343 million reflecting a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) relating to research credit claims on McDonnell Douglas Corporation fixed price government contracts applicable to the 1986 1992 federal income tax returns. In December 1996, The Boeing Company filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington for the refund of over $400 million in federal income taxes and related interest. If the Company were to prevail, the refund of the amount in dispute would include interest computed to the payment date. However, the Company cannot predict the likelihood of a favorable outcome. The suit challenged the IRS method of allocating research and development costs for the purpose of determining tax incentive benefits on export sales through the Companys Domestic International Sales Corporation (DISC) and its FSC for the years 1979 through 1987. The Company prevailed with the District Court, but lost an appeals decision with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Company appealed to the Supreme Court and is awaiting their decision, which is expected in the first half of 2003. The Companys financial statements will not be negatively impacted as a result of the suits outcome. Beginning in 1999 and continuing through 2002 the European Union (EU) has issued a series of objections with the World Trade Organization (WTO) to both U.S. FSC and ETI provisions. The WTO has agreed with the EU and ruled that the FSC and ETI provisions constitute prohibited export subsidies. In response the WTO has authorized the EU to impose retaliatory tariffs. A list of products upon which the retaliatory tariff would be imposed is not yet final, but at this point no Boeing products have been included on the list. President Bush has stated that the U.S. will bring its tax laws into compliance with the WTO ruling that the Extraterritorial Income regime constitutes a prohibited export subsidy. Both the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee are continuing to assess alternatives for a replacement of the ETI legislation. It is not possible to predict what impact this issue will have on future earnings pending final resolution of these matters. If ETI is repealed and replacement legislation is not enacted, the loss of benefit to the Company could be substantial. Income taxes have been settled with the IRS for all years through 1978, and IRS examinations have been completed through 1991. In connection with these examinations, the Company disagrees with IRS proposed adjustments, and the years 1979 through 1987 are in litigation. The IRS examination for McDonnell Douglas Corporation for the years 1993 through 1995 has been settled and the Company received a refund of $102 million in 2002. The Company believes adequate provision for all outstanding issues has been made for all open years. 19 Backlog Contractual backlog of unfilled orders excludes purchase options, announced orders for which definitive contracts have not been executed, and unobligated U.S. and foreign government contract funding. Total contractual backlog balances were $104.2 billion at December 31, 2002, $106.6 billion at December 31, 2001, and $120.6 billion at December 31, 2000. The decreases in contractual backlog from 2001 to 2002 and 2000 to 2001 were related to decreases in contractual backlog for Commercial Airplanes offset by increases in contractual backlog for both Space and Communications and Military Aircraft and Missile Systems. Unobligated backlog includes U.S. and foreign government definitive contracts for which funding has not been appropriated. Unobligated backlog totaled $34.7 billion, $27.5 billion and $31.3 billion at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in unobligated backlog from 2001 to 2002 is primarily related to Military Aircraft and Missile Systems, partially offset by Space and Communications. Overall, unobligated backlog decreased from 2000 to 2001 due to a decrease in unobligated backlog for Military Aircraft and Missile Systems, which was partially offset by an increase in unobligated backlog for Space and Communications. Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that affect the Companys investment requirements and liquidity position, other than operating results associated with current sales activity, include the following: timing of new and derivative programs requiring both high developmental expenditures and initial inventory buildup; cyclical factors, including growth and expansion requirements and requirements associated with reducing sales levels; customer financing assistance; the timing of federal income tax payments; the Companys stock repurchase plan; and potential acquisitions. Cash flow summary The Company has generated strong cash flow from operating activities with $4.4 billion provided in 2002, $3.9 billion in 2001 and $6.2 billion in 2000. Earnings, adjusted for non cash items, continue to be the primary source of operating cash flow with over $4 billion provided in each of the last three years. (Dollars in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net earnings $ 492 $ 2,827 $ 2,128 Non cash items 3,772 1,786 1,977 Changes in working capital 111 (719) 2,121 Net cash provided by operating activities 4,375 3,894 6,226 Net cash used by investing activities (3,421) (4,789) (7,911) Net cash provided (used) by financing activities 746 518 (659) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,700 (377) (2,344) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 633 1,010 3,354 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 2,333 $ 633 $ 1,010 Non cash items Non cash items in earnings primarily include depreciation, amortization, share based plans expense, impairments, valuation provisions and the cumulative effect of accounting change relating to the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Non cash items and corresponding amounts are listed in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Working capital Working capital from operations excluding cash contributions for pensions generated approximately $0.5 billion of net cash in 2002. Due to the decline in the airline industry, lower inventory balances and production rates resulted in a $1.5 billion increase in cash flow. The amount of customer advance payments received in excess of costs was $0.9 billion less in 2002 than the previous year due primarily to lower advance payments received. There was also a substantial reduction in vendor payables. The reduction in tax payments in 2002 resulted principally from lower earnings and a $0.1 billion tax refund from settlements of several tax audits. 20 The working capital trend as reflected in the Five Year Summary indicates that the Company has been able to use lower amounts of working capital to support the volume of business transacted and is using capital more efficiently. This trend does not reflect a change in the Companys ability to meet obligations. Pensions 2002 operating cash flow included $0.3 billion of cash funding to the pension plans. On April 15, 2002, the Company voluntarily funded three of its defined benefit plans to ensure that each of its plans would have assets that were at least approximately equal to (and in most cases greater than) the liability for vested benefits as measured by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The Company does not expect significant pension funding requirements in 2003, although it may make additional discretionary contributions. The Company measures its pension plan using a September 30 year end for financial accounting purposes. The significant declines experienced in the financial markets have unfavorably impacted asset performance. As a result, the Company has reduced its expected long term rate of asset return by 25 basis points to 9.0% beginning in 2003. The expected long term rate of asset return is based on target asset allocations of 60% equity with a return of 10.0%, 30% fixed income with a return of 6.8%, and 10% other (including real estate) with a return of 9.2%. Current allocations are within 1 to 3% of each of the long term targets. The decline in asset performance coupled with historically low interest rates (a key factor when estimating plan liabilities), caused the Company to recognize a significant non cash charge to equity in the fourth quarter of 2002. This charge, which amounted to a $5.7 billion increase to the accrued pension plan liability and a $3.6 billion after tax decrease to the accumulated other comprehensive income account within shareholders equity, did not impact earnings or cash flow, and could reverse in future periods should either interest rates increase or market performance and plan returns improve. The Company uses a discount rate that is based on a point in time estimate as of the September 30 measurement date. Although future changes to the discount rate are unknown, had the discount rate increased or decreased 100 basis points, the pension and postretirement liability would have decreased $3.6 billion or increased $4.4 billion, respectively. Investing activities The majority of BCCs customer financing is funded by debt and cash flow from its own operations. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had outstanding irrevocable commitments of approximately $3.2 billion to arrange or provide financing related to aircraft on order or under option for deliveries scheduled through the year 2007. Not all these commitments are likely to be used; however, a significant portion of these commitments are with parties with relatively low credit ratings. See Note 20 and 21. Outstanding loans and commitments are primarily secured by the underlying aircraft. Additional investments of $0.4 billion were made by BCC in Enhanced Equipment Trust Certificates (EETCs) offered by various airlines in 2002. EETCs are widely used in the airline industry as a method of financing aircraft. BCC provides financing for airlines and has begun investing in these types of instruments as an investor. See BCC Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Financing activities Debt maturities during this three year period included $1.3 billion in 2002, $0.5 billion in 2001, and $0.5 billion in 2000. Additionally, BCC issued $2.8 billion of debt in 2002, $3.9 billion in 2001 and $2.0 billion in 2000. The significant BCC debt issuance in 2000 and 2001 was performed in conjunction with the transfer of a significant portion of the Companys customer financing assets to BCC as well as growth in the customer financing portfolio. In 2002, BCC debt issuance was generally used for growth in the customer financing portfolio. The Company has a share repurchase program, but there were no share repurchases in 2002. See Note 18. 21 Disclosures about contractual obligations and commitments The following table summarizes the Companys known obligations to make future payments or other consideration pursuant to certain contracts as of December 31, 2002, as well as an estimate of the timing in which these obligations are expected to be satisfied. Contractual obligations (Dollars in millions) Total Less than 1year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5years Long term debt $ 13,704 $ 1,377 $ 2,808 $ 2,843 $ 6,676 Capital lease obligations 699 437 120 116 26 Operating leases 1,915 349 497 373 696 Other long term liabilities 12,247 291 2,743 2,762 6,451 Total contractual obligations $ 28,565 $ 2,454 $ 6,168 $ 6,094 $ 13,849 Other long term liabilities in the table above include accrued retiree health care, accrued pension plan liability and deferred lease income. Inventory procurement contacts The Company has entered into certain significant inventory procurement contracts that specify determinable prices and quantities, and long term delivery timeframes. These agreements require suppliers and vendors to be prepared to build and deliver items in sufficient time to meet the Companys production schedules. The need for such arrangements with suppliers and vendors arises due to the extended production planning horizon for many of its products, including commercial aircraft, military aircraft and other products where the delivery to the customer is over an extended period of time. A significant portion of these inventory commitments are either supported by a firm contract from a customer or have historically resulted in settlement through either termination payments or contract adjustments, when necessary, should the customer base not materialize to support delivery from the supplier. Although there are no plans to do so, if any of the Companys programs were to be terminated, the Company would be exposed to potentially material termination costs. Industrial participation agreements The Company has entered into various industrial participation agreements with customers in foreign countries to effect economic flow back and or technology transfer to their businesses or government agencies as the result of their procurement of goods and or services from the Company. These commitments may be satisfied by the Companys placement of direct work, placement of vendor orders for supplies, opportunities to bid on supply contracts, transfer of technology, or other forms of assistance to the foreign country. The Company does not commit to industrial participation obligations unless a contract for sale of the Companys products or services is signed. To be eligible for such a commitment from the Company, the foreign country or customer must have sufficient capability and capacity and must be competitive in cost, quality and schedule. In certain cases, if a contract is placed with a foreign supplier to satisfy an industrial participation obligation, failure of that supplier to comply with any or all of these terms and conditions relieves the Company of its obligations pursuant to that portion of its industrial participation commitment. In certain cases, penalties could be imposed if the Company does not meet its industrial participation obligations. During 2002, no penalties were incurred by the Company. As of December 31, 2002, the Company has outstanding industrial participation obligations totaling approximately $8.2 billion that extend through 2013. Capital resources The Company has the following Standard & Poors credit ratings: short term, A 1; senior debt, A+. BCC has the following Standard & Poors credit ratings: short term, A 1; senior debt, A+. The Company has the following Moodys credit ratings: short term, P 1; senior debt, A2. BCC has the following Moodys credit ratings: short term, P 2; senior debt, A3. The Company has the following Fitchs credit ratings: short term, F 1; senior debt, A+. BCC has the following Fitchs credit ratings: short term, F 1; senior debt, A+. The events of September 11, 2001, negatively impacted the liquidity and capital resources of the Company. Subsequent to September 11, 2001, the Company established a commercial paper program providing additional short term liquidity. Commercial paper remains a significant liquidity source. 22 The Company has debt obligations of $14.4 billion, which are unsecured. Approximately $1.8 billion will mature in 2003, and the balance has an average maturity of 12.4 years. Excluding BCC debt of $9.5 billion and non recourse debt of $0.6 billion, total debt is at 42% of total shareholders equity plus debt. The consolidated debt, including BCC, is at 65% of total shareholders equity plus debt. As previously noted, the Company has recognized a significant non cash charge to equity of $3.6 billion, net of tax. Excluding this item and BCC debt, the consolidated debt was 31% of shareholders equity plus debt. The Company has additional substantial borrowing capability. Currently, the Company has $4.3 billion that remains available from shelf registrations filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and $4.5 billion ($2.0 billion exclusively available for BCC) of unused borrowing on revolving credit line agreements with a group of major banks. See Note 15. The Company believes its internally generated liquidity, together with access to external capital resources, will be sufficient to satisfy existing commitments and plans, and also to provide adequate financial flexibility to take advantage of potential strategic business opportunities should they arise within the next year. Due to the continuing downturn in the commercial aviation market and the recent airline announcements in the United States that confirm the delayed recovery of airline traffic and profitability, several customers have rescheduled aircraft delivery dates. The rescheduling of delivery dates will reduce aircraft advance payments in the near term. The reduction in advance payments will be offset by reduced inventory spending, resulting in an immaterial impact on the Companys liquidity. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company is a party to certain off balance sheet arrangements, as defined by the SEC, including certain guarantees and variable interests in unconsolidated entities. Guarantees The following tables provide quantitative data regarding the Companys third party guarantees. The maximum potential payment amounts represent worst case scenarios, and do not necessarily reflect results expected by the Company. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets the Company could liquidate or receive from other parties to offset its payments under guarantees. The carrying amount of liabilities recorded on the balance sheet reflects the Companys best estimate of future payments it may be required to make as part of fulfilling its guarantee obligations. Portions of certain liabilities were established in prior periods as part of the Companys special charges due to the events of September 11, 2001. As of December 31, 2002, MaximumPotentialPayments EstimatedProceeds fromCollateral/Recourse CarryingAmounts ofLiabilities* Portion ofLiabilitiesRelated to theEvents of Septemer 11, 2001 Asset related guarantees $ 790 $ 629 $ 17 $ 7 Credit guarantees related to the Sea Launch venture 535 186 200 Other credit guarantees 245 72 19 Equipment trust certificates 182 101 Performance guarantees 57 1 *Amounts included in accounts payable and other liabilities The Company has issued various asset related guarantees, principally to facilitate the sale of certain commercial aircraft. Under these arrangements, the Company is obligated to make payments to a guaranteed party in the event the related aircraft fair values fall below a specified amount at a future point in time. These obligations are collateralized principally by commercial aircraft. No aircraft have been delivered with these types of guarantees in several years. Recent declines in asset values of commercial aircraft increase the risk of future payment by the Company under these guarantees. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recorded a reduction to expense of $3 million and made net cash payments totaling $138 million related to its asset related guarantees. 23 The Company has issued credit guarantees to creditors of the Sea Launch venture, of which the Company is a 40% owner, to assist the venture in obtaining financing. In the event the Company is required to perform on these guarantees, it has the right to recover a portion of the loss from another venture partner, and has collateral rights to certain assets of the venture. In addition, the Company has issued credit guarantees, principally to facilitate the sale of certain commercial aircraft. Under these arrangements, the Company is obligated to make payments to a guaranteed party in the event that lease or loan payments are not made by the original debtor or lessee. The Companys commercial aircraft credit related guarantees are collateralized by the underlying commercial aircraft. A substantial portion of these guarantees have been extended on behalf of original debtors or lessees with less than investment grade credit. Recent financial weakness in certain airlines further exposes the Company to loss under its credit guarantees. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recorded no expenses and made net cash payments totaling $9 million related to its credit guarantees. As a liquidity provider for equipment trust certificate (ETC) pass through arrangements, the Company has certain obligations to investors in the trusts, which requires funding to the trust to cover interest due to such investors resulting from an event of default by United Airlines. In the event of funding, the Company receives a first priority position in the ETC collateral in the amount of the funding. On February 7, 2003, the Company advanced $101 million to the trust perfecting its collateral position and terminating its liquidity obligation. The trust currently has collateral value that significantly exceeds the amount due to the Company. Also relating to an ETC investment, the Company has potential obligations relating to shortfall interest payments in the event that the interest rates in the underlying agreements are reset below a certain level. These obligations would cease if United Airlines were to default on its interest payments to the trust. There were no significant payments made by the Company during 2002. The Company has outstanding performance guarantees issued in conjunction with joint venture investments. Pursuant to these guarantees, the Company would be required to make payments in the event a third party fails to perform specified services. Material variable interests in unconsolidated entities The Company is currently assessing the application of FIN 46 as it relates to its variable interests. While the Company is currently not required to consolidate the full amount of the ETCs, EETCs or the Sea Launch venture in which it has invested, it is unable to definitively conclude at this time whether consolidation or disclosure will be required for these investments upon full adoption of FIN 46. The Companys investment in ETCs and EETCs aggregated $455 million at December 31, 2002. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recorded revenues of $25 million, cash inflows of $41 million, and impairment expense of $79 million relating to these investments. As of December 31, 2002, the VIE (ETCs and EETCs) in which the Company has invested have total assets of approximately $4.2 billion and total debt (which is non recourse to the Company) of approximately $3.7 billion. The total assets and total liabilities of the Sea Launch venture each represent less than 4% of the Companys consolidated total assets and total liabilities as of December 31, 2002. The Company made no additional capital contributions to the Sea Launch venture during the year ended December 31, 2002. Disclosures about commercial commitments The following table summarizes the Companys commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2002, as well as an estimate of the timing in which these commitments are expected to expire. Commercial commitments (Dollars in millions) Total AmountsCommitted/Maximum Amount of Loss Less than 1year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5years Standby letters of credit and surety bonds $ 1,663 $ 1,079 $ 221 $ 70 $ 293 Guarantees: Asset related guarantees 790 63 60 667 Credit guarantees 780 4 40 614 122 Equipment trust certificates 182 182 Performance guarantees 57 12 33 12 Trade in commitments 1,993 617 1,054 220 102 Other commercial commitments 3,329 1,569 1,715 45 Total commercial commitments $ 8,794 $ 3,344 $ 3,063 $ 964 $ 1,423 24 Related to the issuance of certain standby letters of credit and surety bonds included in the above table, the Company received $608 million of advance payments from customers. The Company enters into certain trade in agreements to purchase used aircraft from customers at a specific price at a future point in time when those customers purchase new aircraft from the Company. In the event the Company accepts an aircraft under a trade in agreement, the aircraft purchased by the Company serves as collateral to offset amounts paid by the Company to the customer. As of December 31, 2002, accounts payable and other liabilities included $156 million related to trade in commitments, of which $93 million was related to the events of September 11, 2001. The total contractual trade in value of all aircraft that customers had the right to sell to the Company was $1,993 million as of December 31, 2002, and the Company estimated the fair value of those aircraft was $1,837 million. There is a high degree of uncertainty inherent in the assessment of the likelihood of trade in commitments. Generally, as commercial aircraft values decline, the probability of the Companys performance on trade in commitments increases. There have been recent declines in value for certain aircraft models, including those for which the Company has trade in agreements. Updates on the likelihood that trade in commitments will be exercised using both quantitative information from valuation sources and qualitative information from other sources are continually assessed. The Company continues to monitor all trade in commitments for adverse developments. Other commercial commitments include irrevocable financing commitments related to aircraft on order and commercial equipment financing. These are previously discussed and also disclosed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Commercial Airplanes (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $28,387 $35,056 $31,171 % Of Total Company Revenues 53% 60% 61% Unit Cost Method Operating Earnings $2,847 $2,632 $2,736 Operating Margins 10.0% 7.5% 8.8% Program Accounting Method Operating Earnings $2,017 $1,911 $2,099 Operating Margins 7.1% 5.5% 6.7% Research and Development $768 $858 $574 Contractual Backlog $68,159 $75,850 $89,780 Revenues Commercial Airplanes segment revenues were $28.4 billion in 2002 compared with $35.1 billion in 2001 and $31.2 billion for 2000. Commercial Airplanes revenue is derived primarily from jet aircraft deliveries. The decline in revenue in 2002 compared to 2001 was due primarily to the decline in the commercial aviation market and resulting jet aircraft deliveries and revenue. 2001 revenue was higher than in 2000 due primarily to the increase in commercial jet aircraft deliveries. Commercial jet aircraft deliveries were 381 in 2002 compared with 527 in 2001 and 489 in 2000 summarized as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 717 20 49 (10) 32 (23) 737 Classic 2 737 Next Generation 223 (2) 299 (5) 279 747 27 (1) 31 (1) 25 757 29 45 45 767 35 (1) 40 44 777 47 61 55 MD 11 2 4 MD 90 3 Total 381 527 489 25 Commercial jet aircraft deliveries included deliveries under operating lease, which are identified by parentheses in the table above. Deliveries in 2002 included intercompany deliveries of four 737 Next Generation aircraft, consisting of three C 40 aircraft and one Project Wedgetail Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) System aircraft. Deliveries in 2001 included intercompany deliveries of two 737 Next Generation aircraft, and in 2000 included intercompany deliveries of four 737 Next Generation aircraft and one 747 aircraft. Final deliveries of the MD 11 aircraft program occurred in 2001. Final deliveries of the 737 Classic and MD 90 aircraft programs occurred in 2000. The cumulative number of commercial aircraft deliveries as of December 31 were as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 717 113 93 44 737 Next Generation 1,247 1,024 725 747 1,319 1,292 1,261 757 1,022 993 948 767 892 857 817 777 424 377 316 The undelivered units under firm order* as of December 31 were as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 717 26 30 107 737 Next Generation 765 857 997 747 52 59 77 757 28 55 94 767 39 77 82 777 173 198 241 * Firm orders represent new aircraft purchase agreements where the customers rights to cancel without penalty have expired. Typical customer rights to cancel without penalty include receiving Board of Directors approval, shareholder approval, government approval and completing financing arrangements. All such cancellation rights must be satisfied or expired even if satisfying such conditions are highly certain. Firm orders exclude option aircraft and aircraft subject to reconfirmation. Total commercial jet aircraft deliveries for 2003 are currently projected to approximate 280 aircraft. For 2004, commercial aircraft deliveries are currently projected to be in the range of 275 to 300 aircraft. As of January 30, 2003, the delivery forecast for 2003 is virtually sold out and approximately 80% sold for 2004 at the lower end of the range. Commercial Airplanes segment revenues for 2003 are projected to be in the range of $22 billion. Operating Earnings Commercial Airplanes segment calculates its operating earnings using both the unit cost and program accounting methods. For segment reporting purposes, as disclosed in Note 24, the Commercial Airplanes operating earnings as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, are provided on the unit cost basis. Beginning in first quarter 2003, Commercial Airplanes segment data will be based on the program accounting method. Commercial Airplanes segment 2002 operating earnings, based on the unit cost of airplanes delivered, were $2,847 million, compared with $2,632 million in 2001 and $2,736 million in 2000. The related operating margins were 10.0%, 7.5% and 8.8%, respectively. 2002 and 2001 operating earnings included $(2) million and $908 million, respectively, of (recoveries)/charges associated with the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Excluding these (recoveries)/charges, Commercial Airplanes segment operating earnings in 2002 and 2001 were $2,845 million and $3,540 million, resulting in operating margins of 10.0% and 10.1%, respectively. Excluding the September 11 (recoveries)/charges, 2002 operating margin was slightly lower than 2001 due to the decline in revenue offset by improved operating efficiency and reduced research and development expense. 2001 operating earnings and margin, excluding September 11 charges, increased from 2000 principally due to increased revenue and continued improvement in the production process. 26 Commercial Airplanes segment operating earnings, based on the program method of accounting and including intercompany transactions, as discussed in Note 24, were $2,017 million, $1,911 million and $2,099 million as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The related operating margins were 7.1%, 5.5%, and 6.7%. Excluding the 2002 and 2001 (recoveries)/charges associated with September 11, 2001, the operating earnings for these periods were $2,015 million and $2,819 million, respectively. The comparable margins were 7.1% and 8.0%. The decline in margins from 2001 to 2002 is primarily due to the reduction in revenue offset by improved operating efficiency and reduced research and development expense. In addition, the margins have been adversely impacted compared to 2001 due to the aircraft market decline. In general, this has resulted in the lengthening of the time needed to produce the accounting quantity. Commercial aircraft production costs include a significant amount of infrastructure costs, a portion of which do not vary with production rates. As the amount of time needed to produce the accounting quantity increases, the average cost of the accounting quantity also increases as these infrastructure costs are included in the total cost estimates, thus reducing the gross margin and related earnings provided other factors do not change. The favorable cost performance reflected in the current year earnings and margin is recognized over current and future deliveries under the program method of accounting. For segment reporting purposes, the favorable cost performance is a cumulative adjustment to unit cost over current and prior deliveries. The Company will continue to experience a higher than normal quantity of used airplanes through 2003 as a result of commitments entered into through purchase agreements with customers for new aircraft and services. Due to the current market for used airplanes, the Companys used airplane inventory may increase and these purchases and commitments to purchase may result in future charges. Accounting Quantity A program consists of the estimated accounting quantity for each aircraft to be produced for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. The Company has a policy that determines the appropriate accounting quantity for each commercial aircraft program. This policy takes into account several factors influenced by the demand for the particular product. The Company reviews and reassesses its program accounting quantities on a quarterly basis in compliance with relevant program accounting guidance. The current market for commercial aircraft is adversely affecting all of Commercial Airplanes commercial aircraft programs. The resulting reduction in production rates is extending the time frame for production and delivery of the accounting quantities used for program accounting. This is particularly true for the 747, 757 and 767 programs. The 757 and 767 programs have been experiencing the most difficulty acquiring new orders. Current market projections indicate that the Company will be successful in selling the unsold units within the current accounting quantity for all programs, therefore no accounting quantities have been reduced. The estimate of total program accounting quantities and changes, if any, as of December 31 were: 717 737 Next Generation 747 757 767 777 2002 140 2,000 1,401 1,100 1,000 600 Additions 5 200 2001 135 1,800 1,401 1,100 1,000 600 Additions/(deletions) (65) 150 50 50 50 2000 200 1,650 1,351 1,050 950 600 The accounting quantity for the 717 program continues to be based on firm orders as it has been since fourth quarter of 2001. The increase of five units in the 717 program accounting quantity during the second quarter of 2002 was the result of net new order activity on the program. The reduction of 65 units in the 717 program accounting quantity during the fourth quarter of 2001 was driven by a lack of firm demand for the 717 aircraft subsequent to September 11, 2001. See Note 3. This decrease in demand is demonstrated in the table below by the sharp decrease in the 717 programs anticipated orders as a percentage of cumulative firm orders between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000. Program accounting quantity increases between December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2000 on other programs were the result of the normal progression of business; delivering aircraft; and obtaining additional orders. 27 Within the accounting quantity for all programs there are units that have been delivered, undelivered units under contract, and units anticipated to be under contract in the future (anticipated orders). In developing total program estimates all of these conditions within the accounting quantity must be addressed. The percentage of anticipated orders included in the program accounting estimates as compared to the number of cumulative firm orders* as of December 31 were as follows: 717 737 Next Generation 747 757 767 777 2002 Cumulative firm orders (CFO) 139 2,012 1,371 1,050 931 597 Anticipated orders 0 n/a 29 49 67 3 Anticipated orders as a % CFO 0% n/a 2% 5% 7% 1% 2001 Cumulative firm orders (CFO) 123 1,881 1,351 1,048 934 575 Anticipated orders 11 n/a 49 51 64 25 Anticipated orders as a % CFO 9% n/a 4% 5% 7% 4% 2000 Cumulative firm orders (CFO) 151 1,722 1,338 1,042 899 557 Anticipated orders 48 n/a 12 7 49 43 Anticipated orders as a % CFO 32% n/a 1% 1% 5% 8% * Cumulative firm orders represent the cumulative number of commercial jet aircraft deliveries as of December 31 (see table on page 26) plus undelivered units under firm order (see table on page 26). Cumulative firm orders include orders that fall within the current accounting quantities as well as orders that extend beyond the current accounting quantities. Cumulative firm orders exclude program test aircraft that will not be refurbished for sale. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had cumulatively delivered 113 717 program aircraft. The Company will record 717 deliveries on a break even basis until such time as program reviews indicate changes to the gross margin. The Company has potentially material exposures related to the 717 program, principally attributable to termination costs that could result from a lack of longer term market acceptance. The Company is anticipating an order from the U.S. Air Force for 100 767 tankers, which will have a long term positive impact on the 767 program. This order has been incorporated into the program estimates to the extent the aircraft fall within the current accounting quantity. Based on the anticipated delivery schedule and forecasted production rates most of these aircraft fall beyond the current accounting quantity. The order from the U.S. Air Force for 100 767 tankers is anticipated to become a firm contract during 2003. Deferred Production Costs Inventory production costs incurred on in process and delivered units in excess of the estimated average cost of such units determined as described in Note 1 represent deferred production costs. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were no significant excess deferred production costs or unamortized tooling costs not recoverable from existing firm orders for the 737 Next Generation and 777 programs. The unamortized tooling and deferred production costs included in inventory at December 31are summarized in the following table: 2002 2001 Unamortized tooling 737 Next Generation $ 239 $ 305 777 709 821 Deferred production costs 737 Next Generation 57 429 777 785 863 As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the balance of deferred production costs and unamortized tooling related to the 717, 747, 757 and 767 programs was insignificant. 28 Fleet Support The Company provides the operators of all its commercial airplane models assistance and services to facilitate efficient and safe aircraft operation. Collectively known as fleet support services, these activities and services include flight and maintenance training, field service support costs, engineering services and technical data and documents. Fleet support activity begins prior to aircraft delivery as the customer receives training, manuals and technical consulting support, and continues throughout the operational life of the aircraft. Services provided after delivery include field service support, consulting on maintenance, repair, and operational issues brought forth by the customer or regulators, updating manuals and engineering data, and the issuance of service bulletins that impact the entire models fleet. Field service support involves Company personnel located at customer facilities providing and coordinating fleet support activities and requests. The costs for fleet support are expensed as incurred and have been historically less than 1.5% of total consolidated costs of products and services. This level of expenditures is anticipated to continue in the upcoming years. These costs do not vary significantly with current production rates. Research and Development The Company continually evaluates opportunities to improve current aircraft models, and assesses the marketplace to ensure that its family of commercial jet aircraft are well positioned to meet future requirements of the airline industry. The fundamental strategy is to maintain a broad product line that is responsive to changing market conditions by maximizing commonality among the Boeing family of commercial aircraft. Additionally, the Company is determined to continue to lead the industry in customer satisfaction by offering products with the highest standards of quality, safety, technical excellence, economic performance and in service support. Commercial Airplanes segment research and development expense was $768 million in 2002, $858 million in 2001 and $574 million in 2000. The decrease in 2002 from 2001 was due primarily to reduced spending on the development of the 777 300ER and 747 400ER. The increase in 2001 over 2000 was due primarily to increased spending on the development of the 777 300ER, 777 200LR, 747 400ER and a sonic cruiser airplane. The initial delivery of the 747 400ER and the rollout of the first 777 300ER occurred in the fourth quarter of 2002. The initial delivery of the 777 300ER is expected to occur in 2004. The initial delivery of the 737 900, the largest member of the 737 Next Generation family occurred in the second quarter of 2001. The initial delivery of the 767 400ER, a stretched version of 767 300ER, occurred in the third quarter of 2000. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company announced it will focus its product development efforts on the development of an efficient 200 to 250 seat airplane that will fly 7,000 to 8,000 nautical miles with 15 to 20 percent lower fuel usage at the top end of todays commercial jet speeds. The market potential for a new airplane of this size is forecasted at up to 3,000 units over the next 20 years. The Company expects to formally offer the new airplane to customers in early 2004, with entry into service targeted for 2008. The following chart summarizes the time horizon between go ahead and certification/initial delivery for major Commercial Airplanes derivatives and programs. Backlog Commercial Airplanes segment contractual firm backlog balances were $68.2 billion at December 31, 2002, $75.9 billion at December 31, 2001, and $89.8 billion at December 31, 2000. Contractual firm backlog for Commercial Airplanes segment excludes customers deemed by management to be high risk or in bankruptcy as of the reporting date. The contractual backlog decline reflects the impact that the economic downturn has had on the airline industry. The decline in backlog of $7.7 billion from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002, and $13.9 billion from December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2001, represents higher delivery volume on all airplane programs relative to new orders. December 31, 2002, backlog does not include the anticipated order of 100 U.S. Air Force 767 tankers. This order is anticipated to become a firm contract during 2003. 29 Business Environment and Trends Overview The worldwide market for commercial jet airplanes continues to be predominantly driven by long term trends in airline passenger traffic. The principal factors underlying long term traffic growth are sustained economic growth, both in developed and emerging countries, and political stability. Demand for the Companys commercial airplanes is further influenced by airline industry profitability, world trade policies, government to government relations, environmental constraints imposed upon airplane operations, technological changes, and price and other competitive factors. Airline industry environment Commercial aviation has been impacted by an economic downturn that began in 2001 and continued through 2002. In addition, the industry suffered a tremendous shock from the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Air travel in most areas of the world has not recovered to the volume carried by the airlines in 2000, which is affecting profitability for many airlines. U.S. full service airlines have suffered the greatest losses. Holiday traffic in 2002 for the U.S. airlines showed an improvement and most carriers indicated better financial performance. However, this improvement was for only a short period of time and the major U.S. full service airlines reported significant losses for 2002. In contrast, low fare airlines in the U.S. and in Europe are reporting positive financial results and are growing. European network airlines are expected to show better results than their U.S. counterparts for the fiscal period ending in March of 2003. Traffic between Asia and Europe has rebounded to pre September 11 levels. This trend combined with stronger traffic within the region is offsetting the slow growth over the Pacific permitting most Asian airlines to show profits. Our timetable for industry recovery has been delayed. We presently see 2003 to be the year of recovery for world air travel; late 2003/early 2004 to be the year of airline profitability recovery; 2004 to be the year of airplane order recovery; and 2005 to be the year of delivery recovery. The major uncertainty that is curbing economic growth and a stronger and sooner rebound in the industry is the Iraqi situation in terms of timing, scale of military engagement, effect on oil prices, and clarity of political resolution. The Companys 20 year forecast of the average long term growth rate in passenger traffic is 4.9% annually, based on projected average worldwide annual economic real growth of 2.9%. Based on global economic growth projections over the long term, and taking into consideration an increasingly competitive environment, increasing utilization levels of the worldwide airplane fleet and requirements to replace older airplanes, the Company projected almost a $5 trillion market for new airplanes and services over the next 20 years. This is a long term forecast; historically, while factors such as the Gulf War and ticket charges for security have had significant impact over the span of several years, they have not dramatically affected the longer term trends in the world economy, and therefore, the Companys market outlook. Airline deregulation Worldwide, the airline industry has experienced progressive deregulation of domestic markets and increasing liberalization of international markets. Twenty five years ago virtually all air travel took place within a framework of domestic and international regulatory oversight. Since then, an increasing number of countries, most notably the United States, Australia, Japan and the countries in Western Europe, have eliminated restrictive regulations for domestic airline markets and promoted a more open market climate for international services. These trends are expected to continue, but at varying rates in different parts of the world. At the end of the next decade, an estimated two thirds of air travel will be in open markets. Liberalization of government regulations, together with increased airplane range capabilities, gives airlines greater freedom to pursue optimal fleet mix strategies. This increased flexibility allows the airlines to accommodate traffic growth by selecting the best mix of flight frequencies and airplane size and capabilities for their route systems. In intercontinental markets, more liberal bilateral air service agreements provide an important stimulus to opening new city pair markets, which favor increased flight frequency over capacity growth. In parallel with regulatory liberalization, improvements in airplane range performance will continue to allow airlines to expand the number of direct city to city routes, thus reducing the reliance on indirect routes through central hubs that require larger capacity airplanes. 30 Industry competitiveness The Company currently faces aggressive international competitors that are seeking to increase market share. This competitive factor was demonstrated by the decision of Airbus to introduce the A380, a proposed aircraft with passenger seating greater than the 747, to increase market share at the upper end of the large airplane market. This market environment has resulted in intense pressures on pricing and other competitive factors. The Companys focus on improving processes and other cost reduction efforts is intended to enhance its ability to pursue pricing strategies that enable the Company to maintain leadership at satisfactory margins. Additionally, the Companys extensive customer support services network for airlines throughout the world plays a key role in maintaining high customer satisfaction. As an example, on line access is available to all airline customers for engineering drawings, parts lists, service bulletins and maintenance manuals. The commercial jet aircraft market and the airline industry remain extremely competitive. Competitive pressures and increased lower fare travel have combined to cause a long term downward trend in passenger revenue yields worldwide (measured in real terms). Market liberalization within Europe has enabled low cost airlines to enter the market. These airlines increase the downward pressure on airfares, similar to the competitive environment in the United States. Airfares between Asia and the United States are among the lowest yield (airfare divided by revenue passenger miles) of any in the world. These factors result in continued price pressure on the Companys products. Major productivity gains are essential to ensure a favorable market position at acceptable profit margins. In July 2000, three major European aerospace companies (Aerospatiale Matra of France, DaimlerChrysler Aerospace of Germany, and Construcciones Aeronautica of Spain) combined to form the European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS). As a result of the formation, EADS became an 80% owner of Airbus Industrie (AI) and led the effort for the formation of the Airbus Integrated Company (AIC) in early 2001. The creation of the AIC effectively changes the Airbus role, from that of a marketer/distributor of large commercial airplanes to one including complete manufacturing responsibility. The AIC is incorporated under French law as a privately held corporation owned 80% by EADS and 20% by BAE Systems. Over the past five years, sales outside the United States have accounted for approximately 53% of the Companys total Commercial Airplanes third party segment sales; approximately 50% of the Commercial Airplanes segment contractual backlog as of December 31, 2002, was with customers based outside the United States. Continued access to global markets remains vital to the Companys ability to fully realize its sales potential and projected long term investment returns. Summary Although near term market uncertainties remain, particularly with respect to the recovery post September 11, the long term market outlook appears favorable. The Company is well positioned in all segments of the commercial jet airplane market, and intends to remain the airline industrys preferred supplier through emphasis on product offerings and customer service that provide the best overall value in the industry. Military Aircraft and Missile Systems (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $13,990 $12,451 $11,924 % Of Total Company Revenues 26% 21% 23% Operating Earnings $1,652 $1,346 $1,245 Operating Margins 11.8% 10.8% 10.4% Research and Development $345 $258 $257 Contractual Backlog $21,073 $17,630 $17,113 Revenues Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment revenues were $14.0 billion in 2002, $12.5 billion in 2001 and $11.9 billion in 2000. Increased revenues in 2002 were primarily due to additional deliveries on the C 17 Globemaster, F/A 18E/F Super Hornet, F 15 Eagle, JDAM, AH 64 Apache programs and increased Aerospace Support volume. The Military Aircraft and Missile Systems business segment is broadly diversified, and no program other than the C 17 Globemaster program and the F/A 18E/F Super Hornet program accounted for more than 6% of total 2002 segment revenues. Revenues include amounts attributable to production programs and amounts recognized on a cost reimbursement basis for developmental programs such as the F/A 22 Raptor, V 22 Osprey, and the RAH 66 Comanche. The increase in revenues between 2001 and 2000 is primarily due to increased aircraft deliveries in 2001, one additional C 17 Globemaster, four 737 C 40A Clippers and four CH 47 Chinook helicopters. 31 Deliveries of units for principal production programs, including deliveries under operating lease, which are identified by parentheses, were as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 C 17 Globemaster 16 14 (4) 13 F/A 18E/F Super Hornet 40 36 26 T 45TS Goshawk 14 15 16 F 15E Eagle 3 5 CH 47 Chinook 7 11 7 737 C 40A Clipper 3 4 AH 64 Apache 15 7 8 Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment revenues for 2003 are projected to be in the $14 billion range. Operating Earnings Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment operating earnings for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were $1,652 million, $1,346 million and $1,245 million, respectively. The segment operating margins for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were 11.8%, 10.8% and 10.4%, respectively. The 2002 operating results reflect strong profits on major production programs. The segment operating margins for 2002 were 11.2% after adjusting for gains of $64 million related to the divestiture of equity investments and a favorable adjustment of $24 million attributable to F 15 Eagle program charges taken in 1999. Increased earnings in 2001 from 2000 were associated with the additional delivery of one C 17 Globemaster, four 737 C 40A Clippers and four CH 47 deliveries. The segment operating earnings for 2001 include the recognition of $48 million of charges relating to asset reductions attributable to reduced work volume at the Philadelphia site, and $46 million of charges associated with the Joint Strike Fighter program and idle manufacturing assets. The 2001 operating earnings also included a favorable adjustment of $57 million attributable to F 15 Eagle program charges taken in 1999. Exclusive of these items, the segment operating margins for 2001 were 11.1%. Research and Development The Company is continuing to invest in business opportunities where it can use its customer knowledge, technical strength and large scale systems integration capabilities to shape the market. Investments in Unmanned Systems continue to leverage the Companys capabilities in architectures, system of systems integration and weapon systems technologies to provide transformational capabilities for the U.S. military. Investment is continuing in the 767 Tanker programs for the U.S. Air Force and international customers. Company investments in Airborne Electronic Attack and Precision Weapons and advanced Rotorcraft systems are expanding its breadth of products and capabilities enabling it to access larger portions of the combat systems markets. Military Aircraft and Missile Systems research and development expense in 2002 was $345 million, compared with $258 million in 2001 and $257 million in 2000. Current research and development activities are focused on the international and domestic 767 Tanker program, reflected in the 2002 increased expenditures over 2001. This program represents a large opportunity to provide state of the art tanking capabilities to our potential domestic and international customers. It demonstrates the synergistic value of the diversified Boeing portfolio in providing best value solutions to our customers. Italy recently became the first customer of the 767 tanker ordering four aircraft with first aircraft delivery scheduled in 2005. The Military Aircraft and Missile Systems segment continues to pursue business opportunities where it can use its customer knowledge, technical strength and large scale integration capabilities. The segments level of research and development expenditures is consistent with this approach, and reflects the recent business environment, which has presented few major new start opportunities. Other research and development efforts include upgrade and technology insertions to enhance the capability and competitiveness of current product lines, as well as exploration of new markets such as unmanned air vehicles (UAVs). 32 Backlog Total contractual backlog for Military Aircraft and Missile Systems was $21.1 billion at December 31, 2002, $17.6 billion at December 31, 2001 and $17.1 billion at December 31, 2000. Military Aircraft and Missiles Systems contractual backlog increased by 20% in 2002 compared to 2001. The increase in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily attributed to the capture of several key international awards including the Korean F 15 Eagle contract and the Italian 767 Tanker contract. Backlog also increased due to rate increases on several domestic programs in low rate initial production including V 22 Osprey and the F/A 22 Raptor. The C 17 Globemaster program maintained consistent backlog as new orders replaced sales on the existing production contracts. The program is well positioned for continued sales well into this decade. The F/A 18E/F Super Hornet program backlog increased moderately as the customer continues to increase production rate. The JDAM program backlog also increased moderately with additional orders from both the Navy and Air Force. Aerospace Support orders continued to increase this past year. Business Environment and Trends Overview The U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), represents nearly 50% of the worlds defense budget, and remains the principal customer of the Military Aircraft and Missile Systems business unit. Several trends are emerging that are shaping customer behavior in this market. U.S. military force structure is shrinking, its platforms are aging, and the tempo of operations and engagements worldwide remains high. The United States current military activity demonstrates the value of systems solutions that allow all systems to communicate with each other, to operate over longer ranges, are unmanned and provide the advantages of precision, persistence and selective engagement. These factors are driving the U.S. DoD, along with militaries worldwide, to focus on ways to transform their forces and the way they operate. Military Transformation The transformation in forces is evidenced by a trend toward smaller, but more capable and more technologically advanced force structures. The transformation in acquisition is evidenced by an increasing trend toward spiral development programs, cooperative international development programs and a demonstrated willingness to explore new forms of acquisition and ownership including the lease of military support aircraft. Institutions and events continue to shape the defense industrial environment. From an institutional perspective, the establishment of the Homeland Defense and U.S. Northern Command are creating new organizations with responsibilities for national airspace control, coastal protection and civil support. The creation of the U.S. Strategic Command is consolidating responsibilities for global strike, integrated missile defense, information operations, command, control, communications and computers, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaisance into a single organization. Events like Operation Enduring Freedom and the continuing war on global terrorism reaffirms the need for the rapid projection of decisive combat power around the world and emphasizes the need for new capabilities and solutions for the warfighter. Toward that end, the DoD is fully committed to a transformation that will achieve and maintain advantages through changes in operational concepts, organizational structure and technologies that significantly improve warfighting capabilities. Competitive environment The global competitive environment continues to intensify, with increased focus on the U.S. defense market, the worlds largest and most attractive. Military Aircraft and Missile Systems faces strong competition in all market segments, primarily from Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, EADS and Northrop Grumman. The financial problems plaguing some domestic industry competitors appear to be resolved, enabling them to acquire new assets and compete more vigorously. EADS continues to strategically build a presence in the U.S. market through building its North American operations and by partnering with U.S. defense companies. Continued industry consolidation and market concentration was marked by the acquisition of TRW by Northrop Grumman. Northrops position in the UAV, space, systems integration, and strike markets has been strengthened. However, all prime contractors continue to partner or serve as major suppliers to each other on various programs. At the lower tiers, consolidation persists and select companies have been positioning for larger roles, especially in the Aerospace Support market. In addition to leveraging its internal resources and capabilities, the Company is creating a competitive advantage by developing global strategic relationships to provide superior value for its customers, both in the U.S. and abroad. 33 Summary Events like nuclear proliferation in North Korea, Operation Enduring Freedom and the continued war on terrorism, highlight the fact that our National Security goals are not rhetorical. There is an immediate and a durable need to maintain strong U.S. defense capabilities covering a very broad spectrum of threats and responses. Near term DoD budgets have increased, and longer range forecasts expect DoD budgets to grow faster than anticipated prior to September 11, 2001. However, with a softening global economy and anticipated federal budget tensions, allocations to DoD procurement are unlikely to increase significantly. This suggests that the DoD will continue to focus on affordability strategies emphasizing network centric operations, long range strike, unmanned air combat and reconnaissance vehicles, precision guided weapons and continued privatization of logistics and support activities as a means to improve overall effectiveness while maintaining control over costs. The Companys capabilities and programs are well suited to provide the military capabilities essential to meet the challenges facing our nation. Space and Communications (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $10,967 $10,364 $8,039 % Of Total Company Revenues 20% 18% 16% Operating Earnings (Loss) $357 $619 $(243) Operating Margins 3.3% 6.0% (3.0%) Research and Development $397 $526 $526 Contractual Backlog $14,941 $13,111 $13,707 Revenues Space and Communications segment revenues were $11.0 billion in 2002, compared with $10.4 billion in 2001 and $8.0 billion in 2000. The segment remains broadly diversified. The contributors to 2002 Space and Communications segment revenues included five market segments: Integrated Battlespace, Missile Defense, Human Space Flight and Exploration, Launch and Satellite and Homeland Security. The increase in revenues from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to increased activity in Missile Defense offset by decreases in Launch and Satellite due to continued market downturn. 2001 revenues were higher than 2000 revenues due primarily to increased activity on Integrated Battlespace programs and the acquisition of Boeing Satellite Systems (BSS) in October 2000. Deliveries of production units were as follows: Model 2002 2001 2000 Delta II 3 12 10 Delta IV 1 BSS Satellites 6 7 5 Space and Communications segment revenues for 2003 are projected to be in the $12 billion range. The greatest growth is expected in the Integrated Battlespace market as Space and Communications has become the DoDs leading industry partner in executing the military transformation with the capture of the Future Combat Systems program, Joint Tactical Radio System, and the Family of Advanced Beyond Line of Sight Terminals program. Missile Defense expects continued growth as the Missile Defense Agency continues its emphasis on the development of various missile defense capabilities. Operating Earnings Space and Communications segment operating earnings for 2002 were $357 million compared with $619 million in 2001 and $(243) million in 2000, and the related operating margins were 3.3%, 6.0% and (3.0)% for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The 2002 operating results include a $100 million pre tax charge to write down an equity investment in Teledesic, LLC. Also contributing to the 2002 decreased operating earnings was cost growth on Satellite programs and the continued downturn in the Launch and Commercial Satellite market. The 2000 operating results included a pre tax charge of $505 million associated with the in process research and development from the acquisition of the Hughes space and communications businesses and Autometric businesses, along with $78 million in costs associated with a Delta III demonstration launch in August 2000. The 2002 segment operating margins were reduced from 2001 due to factory cost, schedule performance and a satellite contract termination in the commercial satellite business along with 737 AEW&C development cost growth. The reduced 2002 margins were offset by favorable commercial space contract actions, improved margins for Integrated Battlespace, and Ground based Midcourse Defense program performance. The 2001 operating margins were improved over the 2000 operating margins primarily due to reduced new product development expenses associated with the Delta IV RS 68 engine as it completed developmental engine certification and transitioned to production. The Company projects that 2003 operating earnings will continue to be impacted by new program development expenses but to a lesser degree than in prior years, primarily due to the transition of the Delta IV launch vehicle into production. 34 In February 2002, Space and Communications undertook a reorganization of its commercial satellite manufacturing activities in response to poor performance compounded by unfavorable market conditions. The impact to earnings by Satellite program cost growth was partially offset by favorable contractual actions. The net impact to the year for BSS was a reduction in operating earnings of approximately $146 million. Progress has been made in implementing process improvements and program management best practices, however, factory problems that arise out of acceptance testing continue to impact existing contracts. As a result, completion schedules have slipped which has resulted in exposing the Company to the risk of contract Termination for Default (TFD) notification. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company received a TFD notification on a commercial satellite contract that had an expected delivery beyond the contractual TFD date. The customer no longer required the satellite for their current business base. The Company is currently marketing the satellite, which was adjusted to the estimated net realizable value. Early in the first quarter of 2003, the Company passed the TFD dates for two commercial satellite contracts. Management believes a TFD situation for each of these contracts is not likely to result in a material financial impact due to continuing legal, production, and contractual efforts in work. Certain launch and satellite contracts include provisions for replacement launch services or hardware if specified performance criteria are not met. The Company has historically purchased insurance to cover these obligations when allowed under the terms of the contract. Due to recent events, the current insurance market reflects unusually high premium rates and also suffers from a lack of capacity to handle all insurance requirements. Although the Company does not intend to do so, it may elect to forego the procurement of third party insurance and, instead, retain such risks internally. Management believes the contract cost estimates have sufficient provisions to cover the expected value for these risks. Previously identified market based risks associated with Delta III inventory is being mitigated by a combination of reusing inventory on other Delta programs, customer payments provided to reassign payloads to other launch vehicles, and the retention of existing customer deposits should those customers terminate their contract for Delta III launches. At this time the Delta III inventory is no longer considered a material financial risk. The Sea Launch venture, in which the Company is a 40% partner with RSC Energia (25%) of Russia, Kvaerner ASA (20%) of Norway, and KB Yuzhnoye/PO Yuzhmash (15%) of Ukraine, provides ocean based launch services to commercial satellite customers. The venture had one successful launch in 2002. The Companys investment in this venture as of December 31, 2002, is reported at zero, which reflects the recognition of losses reported by Sea Launch in prior years. The venture incurred losses in 2002, due to the relatively low volume of launches, reflecting a depressed satellite market. The Company has financial exposure with respect to the venture, which relates to guarantees by the Company provided to certain Sea Launch creditors, performance guarantees provided by the Company to a Sea Launch customer of $33 million and financial exposure related to accounts receivable/inventory of $253 million. The exposures related to guarantees are included in the Off Balance Sheet Arrangements discussion and disclosed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company and Lockheed Martin are 50 50 partners in United Space Alliance, which is responsible for all ground processing of the Space Shuttle fleet and for space related operations with the U.S. Air Force. United Space Alliance also performs modifications, testing and checkout operations that are required to ready the Space Shuttle for launch. United Space Alliance operations are performed under cost plus type contracts. The Companys proportionate share of joint venture earnings is recognized as income. The segments operating earnings include earnings of $68 million, $72 million, and $60 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, attributable to United Space Alliance. On February 1, 2003, the country experienced the tragic loss of Space Shuttle Columbia and its seven person crew. The Company is assisting NASA to determine the cause of this accident. This accident did not impact the Companys results of operations for 2002, and it is too early to determine the effect on the Companys business operations for 2003 and beyond. Research and Development Within the Space and Communications businesses the Company continued investing in the new Delta IV expendable launch vehicle which resulted in its successful inaugural commercial launch in November of 2002. This product gives the Company greater access to a portion of the launch market that was previously unavailable with the Delta II rocket alone. 35 In the communications market, the Company is investing to enable connectivity between existing air/ground platforms, increase communications availability and bandwidth through more robust space systems, and leverage innovative communications concepts. Investments were made in Global Situational Awareness concepts to develop communication system architectures to support various business opportunities including Future Combat Systems, Joint Tactical Radio System, FAB T and Global Missile Defense. A major contributor to the Companys support of these DoD transformation programs is the investment in the Boeing Integration Center where the Companys Network Centric Operations concepts are developed in partnership with its customers. The Company also will continue to make focused investments that will lead to the development of next generation space intelligence systems. Space and Communications research and development expense, excluding in process research and development, was $397 million in 2002 compared to $526 million in 2001 and 2000. Significant investment in development programs at the Space and Communications segment continued during 2002. Company sponsored research and development expenditures supported the development of the Delta IV launch vehicle. Delta IV development expense has been reduced by the U.S. Governments participation in developing the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV). AEW&C System research and development program expenses decreased as the effort transitioned to work that is specifically required for the Australian Wedgetail program. Company sponsored research and development levels are expected to decline in 2003 due to the transition of the Delta IV launch vehicle into production. Backlog Total contractual backlog for Space and Communications was $14.9 billion at December 31, 2002 and $13.1 billion at December 31, 2001 and $13.7 billion at December 31, 2000. Space and Communications contractual backlog increased by 14% in 2002 compared to 2001. The 2002 increase is primarily due to orders for Proprietary Programs, an order by the Department of Transportation for Airport Security, a NASA award for space flight payload processing and orders for Delta IV launch vehicles. This increase was partially offset by the declines in commercial satellite backlog due to decreases in new orders and sales on existing orders. Business Environment and Trends Overview Space and Communications products and services, as part of Integrated Defense Systems, will span five distinctive markets: Integrated Battlespace, Missile Defense, Homeland Security, Human Space Flight and Exploration, and Commercial Launch and Satellite. Each of these markets has unique customers and requirements, and therefore, will be discussed individually below. Integrated Battlespace U.S. military force structure is shrinking, its platforms are aging, and the tempo of operations and engagements worldwide remains high. Several of the recent United States military actions have demonstrated the value of systems solutions that allow all systems to communicate with each other; operate over longer ranges; and are unmanned and provide the advantages of precision, persistence and selective engagement. Refer to Military Aircraft and Missile Systems Business Environment and Trends beginning on page 33 for further discussion on Military Transformation. Missile Defense Funding for the missile defense market is primarily driven by the U.S. Government Missile Defense Agency (MDA) budget. The primary thrusts in this market are the continued development and deployment of theater missile defense systems and the Ground based Missile Defense (GMD) program. The overall MDA missile defense budget is approximately $8 billion. There is continued Congressional support for development of strong missile defense capabilities as evidenced by the fact that the fiscal year 2003 budgets were fully funded in all four defense committees by Congress. In January 2002, a new GMD Program Strategy was released in which the MDA stated their objective to put a Test Bed capability in place by September 2004. This Test Bed would allow critical testing of the Ground based Midcourse Defense segment along with the addition of other systems and sensors into the test scenario. These new requirements for a Test Bed and Development Program were baselined by the Company and the U.S. Government in 2002. The resulting contract change was finalized in December 2002. Additionally on December 17, 2002, President George W. Bush called for our nations missile defense capabilities to move from the test only category into a deployed system. The Company, in conjunction with MDA, has initiated efforts to fulfill the direction of the President. Through our leadership position on the Missile Defense National Team and our prime contractor role on the Ground based Midcourse Defense segment program and on the Airborne Laser program, Space and Communications is positioned to maintain its role as MDAs #1 contractor. 36 Homeland Security Since the events of September 11, 2001, the world has permanently changed. The President quickly issued an executive order establishing an Office of Homeland Security. This office was officially designated as a cabinet level department led by Governor Tom Ridge on January 24, 2003. This department will be responsible for a budget of nearly $40 billion annually with a workforce of 170,000 consolidating from 22 disparate agencies. Over the past year, the Company has aligned internally to meet the challenges of the new threat. In June 2002, the Company was chosen to lead the team that installed explosive detection technology for baggage screening in all U.S. airports by December 31, 2002. This was the largest Homeland Security contract awarded to date, representing one of the largest short term projects in government history. The Company is focusing on the federal Homeland Security marketplace, and will leverage its experience and capabilities in network centric operations to enhance the solutions for Homeland Security opportunities. Human Space Flight and Exploration The total human space flight and exploration market is forecasted to be relatively flat over the next ten years. This forecast is based on budget projections for NASA, the primary customer in this market. But within this flat forecast the Company is observing changes in direction and emphasis with the establishment of a new vision and mission. Over the past year, NASA has developed a new Integrated Space Transportation Plan (ISTP) to implement their new vision. This plan is designed to benefit the International Space Station, Space Shuttle program, and the agencys science and research objectives. The new ISTP dedicates more resources to the space station program, provides additional funding to extend the life and enhance the safety and reliability of the agencys orbiter fleet, boosts funding for science based payloads and research, and restructures NASAs Space Launch Initiative. The Space Launch Initiative will now focus on the development of a crew transport vehicle to ferry space station crewmembers, along with a continued technology effort to identify future reusable launch vehicle technologies. The Company is well positioned to join with NASA to help realize their vision using the expertise the Company has gained from its prime contractor role on the Space Shuttle program and the International Space Station and an integral player in the Space Launch Initiative program. As NASAs investigation of the Columbia accident continues the Company may see some budget reprioritizing, but it is far too early in the investigation to speculate on that. What we do know is that this administration is committed to finding the cause of the accident, fixing it, and successfully returning the Space Shuttle fleet back to operational status. We will participate fully in these efforts. Commercial Launch and Satellite The commercial market has softened significantly since the late 1990s in conjunction with the downturn in the telecommunications industry. These markets are now characterized by overcapacity, commodity pricing and limited near term opportunities. The recovery in the commercial satellite market may take several years at which time we believe the market will stabilize in the 15 20 satellites per year range. This recovery in satellite orders should also produce new opportunities in the launch services business. We have taken aggressive actions to right size and restructure our organizations to meet the future commercial demand, while continuing to meet our government customer requirements. In addition, we have worked diligently over the last year to improve processes in our quality, engineering and manufacturing disciplines. We believe Boeing Satellite Systems and Boeing Launch Services (Delta II, III, IV and Sea Launch) are positioned to bring unique and competitive offerings to our commercial customers as their requirements for new or replacement satellites resurfaces. Boeing Capital Corporation (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $994 $815 $545 Operating Earnings $482 $562 $397 Operating Margins 48.5% 69.0% 72.8% Debt $9,465 $7,295 $4,318 Debt to Equity Ratio 5.7 to 1 5.3 to 1 6.4 to 1 Revenues Revenues for BCC consisted principally of income earned on portfolio assets (direct finance leases, operating leases, notes receivable and investments). The major revenue components include commercial aircraft and commercial equipment financing. Interest expense on debt is not included in BCCs operating earnings as the Company reports interest expense below operating earnings on the consolidated statements of operations. However, interest expense of $410 million, $324 million, and $229 million was associated with debt relating to BCC financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Beginning in 2003, interest expense will be reported as a component of operating earnings for BCC. 37 Operating revenues for BCC were $994 million in 2002, compared with $815 million in 2001 and $545 million in 2000. A larger portfolio, resulting from new business volume and portfolio transfers from Boeing over the last two years, is primarily responsible for the increased revenues in 2002 and 2001. Operating Earnings Operating earnings for BCC were $482 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared with $562 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to the impairment and valuation allowance charges recognized in 2002, offset by additional income due to the growth in the portfolio. Operating earnings for 2001 were $562 million compared with $397 million in 2000. The growth in investment in financing assets was principally responsible for the increase. The increase was partially offset by higher provision for losses, and higher operating and other expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recognized a pre tax expense of $426 million primarily in recognition of the deterioration of aircraft values and customer credit ratings. Total impairment expense recognized in 2001 and 2000 was not significant. BCCSegment OtherSegment Consolidated Increased valuation allowance $ 100 $ 80 $ 180 Impairment of investment in equipment trust certificates 13 66 79 Impairment of joint venture aircraft 48 48 Other assets impairments 39 80 119 $ 200 $ 226 $ 426 A pre tax expense of $180 million was recorded to increase the valuation allowance based on the Companys assessment of the adequacy of customer financing reserves. A specific pre tax impairment of $79 million was recorded during the third quarter of 2002 related to a long held investment in ETCs secured by aircraft on lease to United Airlines (United). The write down was based on the decline in credit ratings of United, the long term maturity of the investment and the decline in the underlying aircraft collateral valuations. The ultimate realization of this investment will depend upon legal developments in Uniteds bankruptcy proceedings and Uniteds ability to meet its related contractual obligations. A specific pre tax impairment of $48 million was recorded related to a joint venture investment that was established to lease and eventually convert 24 727 passenger aircraft to full cargo configuration. Based on the Companys assessment of current market conditions and the average age of the aircraft (averaging over twenty years old), the Company recorded an impairment for its share of the adjustment to estimated fair market value for the joint ventures 727 aircraft. The BCC portfolio does not include any 727 aircraft other than those held through this joint venture. Other pre tax charges of $119 million related to valuations of other assets in the portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2002. Included in this amount was a $66 million impairment charge recorded during the fourth quarter of 2002 on the return of 24 717s to the Company by AMR Corporation. The total BCC portfolio was $11.8 billion as of December 31, 2002, compared with $9.2 billion as of December 31, 2001. At December 31, 2002, BCCs debt to equity ratio was 5.7 to 1, compared with 5.3 to 1 at December 31, 2001. Business Environment and Trends BCC acts as a captive finance subsidiary for the Company and provides market based lease and loan financing primarily to airlines that purchase or lease commercial aircraft manufactured by the Company or others. BCC competes for aircraft finance business with other finance companies, commercial banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. BCC also competes in the commercial equipment leasing and finance markets, primarily in the United States, against a number of large ticket competitors, mainly heavily capitalized leasing companies and relationship banks. Approximately 22% of BCCs portfolio has been generated from commercial equipment leasing and financing activities. Commercial equipment consists of executive aircraft, machine tools and production equipment, containers and marine equipment, chemical, oil and gas equipment and other equipment. New business volume of BCC is funded with debt obtained in the capital markets, cash from operations, and contributions from the Company. 38 Published sources and recent market transactions indicate that values for various aircraft types used as collateral in BCCs portfolio remained depressed. At the same time, the credit ratings of many airlines, particularly in the United States, have continued to deteriorate. A substantial portion of BCCs portfolio is concentrated among commercial airline customers. Certain customers have filed for bankruptcy protection or requested lease or loan restructurings; these negotiations were in various stages as of December 31, 2002. These bankruptcies or restructurings could have a material adverse effect on the Companys earnings, cash flows or financial position. United filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on December 9, 2002. As of the filing date, the Company has not reached agreement with United on a restructuring of its various transactions. Future negotiations may result in changes to the agreements under which United has agreed to perform. So long as United remains in bankruptcy, United has the right to reject or abandon its transaction with the Company. In the event that future negotiations or proceedings result in the return of a substantial number of aircraft, there could be a material adverse effect on the Companys earnings, cash flows or financial position at least until such time as the aircraft are sold or redeployed for adequate consideration. As of December 31, 2002, there were $311 million of assets, principally commercial aircraft that were held for sale or re lease at BCC, of which $308 million were not yet identified with a firm contract to sell or place on lease. Additionally, approximately $207 million of BCCs assets are currently scheduled to come off lease in 2003. The inability of BCC to sell such assets or place such assets into revenue generating service could pose a potential risk to results of operations should some of these assets be deemed to be impaired. Airlines regularly utilize a special purpose entity (SPE) known as a Pass Through Trust. The Pass Through Trust enables the airline to aggregate a large number of aircraft secured notes into one trust vehicle, facilitating the issuance of larger bonds called Pass Through Certificates (PTCs). The most common form of PTCs issued by airlines is the EETCs. EETCs provide investors with tranched rights to cash flows from a financial instrument, as well as a collateral position in the related asset. While the underlying classes of equipment notes vary by maturity and or coupon depending upon tenor or level of subordination of the specific equipment notes and their corresponding claim on the aircraft, the basic function of the Pass Through Trust in an EETC remains: to passively hold separate debt investments to enhance liquidity for investors, whom in turn pass this liquidity benefit directly to the airline in the form of lower coupon and or greater debt capacity. BCC participates in several EETCs as an investor. The EETC investments are related to customers the Company believes have less than investment grade credit. BCC also utilizes certain SPEs to isolate individual transactions for legal liability, perfect security interest from the perspective of the Company and a third party lender in certain leveraged transactions, and realize certain income and sales tax benefits. These SPEs are fully consolidated in the Companys financial statements. In December 2002, BCC completed an asset securitization that raised $299 million of secured debt through the use of a bank sponsored Commercial Paper Conduit (C/P Conduit). As collateral for the debt, BCC transferred $331 million of assets from its portfolio to the C/P Conduit. These portfolio assets consisted of the cash flows associated with specific financing leases, notes and other receivables and operating leases. BCC also assigned to the C/P Conduit perfected security interests in $278 million of collateral underlying the transferred portfolio assets. The collateral pledged indirectly provides the C/P Conduit with additional protection in the event that the cash flows from the leases and notes are insufficient to cover the total debt outstanding under the transaction. The secured debt and securitized assets remain on BCCs balance sheet. Other Other segment earnings were $(424) million in 2002, $(354) million in 2001, and $43 million in 2000. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, operating earnings of $44 million and $23 million were attributable to four C 17 transport aircraft on lease to the United Kingdom Royal Air Force. These leases began in 2001. Offsetting the operating earnings of the C 17 leases were increases in losses during both 2002 and 2001 primarily due to increases in intercompany guarantees and asset impairments, lease accounting differences and other subsidies related to BCC. See Note 24. Research and development expense attributable to the Other segment was $129 million in 2002, $294 million in 2001, and $84 million in 2000. Research and development activities in the Other segment relate primarily to Connexion by BoeingSM and, to a lesser extent, Air Traffic Management. Astro Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, operates as a captive insurance company. This subsidiary enables the Companys exposures to be insured at the lowest possible cost to the Company regardless of whether the market is overpriced. In addition, it provides flexibility to the Company in handling its changing risk financing needs and provides access to the reinsurance markets. Currently, Astro Ltd. insures aviation liability, workers compensation, general liability, property, as well as various smaller risk liability insurances. 39 Events of September 11, 2001 On September 11, 2001, the United States was the target of severe terrorist attacks that involved the use of U.S. commercial aircraft manufactured by the Company. These attacks resulted in a significant loss of life and property and caused major disruptions in business activities and in the U.S. economy overall. See Note 3. Employees and Labor Relations As of December 31, 2002, the Companys principal collective bargaining agreements were with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM) representing 20% of employees (current agreements expiring in May 2004, and September and October 2005); the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA) representing 13% of employees (current agreements expiring February 2004 and December 2005); and the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) representing 4% of employees (current agreements expiring May 2003, April 2004, and September 2005). The Companys workforce level was 166,000 at December 31, 2002. Contingent Items Various legal proceedings, claims and investigations related to products, contracts and other matters are pending against the Company. Most significant legal proceedings are related to matters covered by insurance. Major contingencies are discussed below. The Company is subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment, including those for discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. Due in part to their complexity and pervasiveness, such requirements have resulted in the Company being involved with related legal proceedings, claims and remediation obligations since the 1980s. The Company routinely assesses, based on in depth studies, expert analyses and legal reviews, its contingencies, obligations and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites, including assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other responsible parties who have and have not agreed to a settlement and of recoveries from insurance carriers. The Companys policy is to immediately accrue and charge to current expense identified exposures related to environmental remediation sites based on estimates of investigation, cleanup and monitoring costs to be incurred. The costs incurred and expected to be incurred in connection with such activities have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact to the Companys financial position. With respect to results of operations, related charges have averaged less than 2% of annual net earnings. Such accruals as of December 31, 2002, without consideration for the related contingent recoveries from insurance carriers, are less than 2% of total liabilities. Because of the regulatory complexities and risk of unidentified contaminated sites and circumstances, the potential exists for environmental remediation costs to be materially different from the estimated costs accrued for identified contaminated sites. However, based on all known facts and expert analyses, the Company believes it is not reasonably likely that identified environmental contingencies will result in additional costs that would have a material adverse impact to the Companys financial position or operating results and cash flow trends. The Company is subject to U.S. Government investigations from which civil, criminal or administrative proceedings could result. Such proceedings could involve claims by the government for fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages, restitution and or forfeitures. Under government regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating divisions or subdivisions, can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts, or lose its export privileges, based on the results of investigations. The Company believes, based upon all available information, that the outcome of any such government disputes and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or continuing operations. In 1991, the U.S. Navy notified McDonnell Douglas (now a subsidiary of the Company) and General Dynamics Corporation (the Team) that it was terminating for default the Teams contract for development and initial production of the A 12 aircraft. The Team filed a legal action to contest the Navys default termination, to assert its rights to convert the termination to one for the convenience of the Government, and to obtain payment for work done and costs incurred on the A 12 contract but not paid to date. As of December 31, 2002, inventories included approximately $583 million of recorded costs on the A 12 contract, against which the Company has established a loss provision of $350 million. The amount of the provision, which was established in 1990, was based on McDonnell Douglass belief, supported by an opinion of outside counsel, that the termination for default would be converted to a termination for convenience, and that the best estimate of possible loss on termination for convenience was $350 million. 40 On August 31, 2001, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a decision after trial upholding the U.S. Governments default termination of the A 12 contract on the grounds that the Team could not meet the revised contract schedule unilaterally imposed by the U.S. Government. This followed an earlier trial court decision in favor of the contractors and reversal of that initial decision on appeal. The Team appealed that decision to the Court of Appeals and is awaiting a decision. The Team also obtained a stay of the trial courts judgment to prevent the Navy from collecting any amounts prior to the decision by the Court of Appeals. If, after all judicial proceedings have ended, the courts determine that a termination for default was appropriate, the Company would incur an additional loss of approximately $275 million, consisting principally of remaining inventory costs and adjustments, and would be required to pay the U.S. Government one half of the unliquidated progress payments of $1,350 million plus statutory interest from February 1991 (currently totaling approximately $1,040 million). The loss to the Company would total approximately $1,465 million in pre tax charges. Although the Court of Federal Claims sustained the default termination in 2001, the Company believes that the courts ruling is contrary to law and fact and that the loss provision established by McDonnell Douglas in 1990 continues to provide adequately for the reasonably possible reduction in value of A 12 net contracts in process as of December 31, 2002. Final resolution of the A 12 litigation will depend upon the outcome of further proceedings or possible negotiations with the U.S. Government. The Company is a defendant in seven employment discrimination matters in which class certification is sought or has been granted. These matters are pending in Seattle, Los Angeles, St. Louis, Tulsa, and Wichita. The Company intends to continue its aggressive defense of these cases. It is not possible to predict what impact, if any, these cases could have on the financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Interest rate risk The Company has financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk, principally short term investments, fixed rate debt obligations, and customer financing assets and liabilities. Historically, the Company has not experienced material gains or losses due to interest rate changes. Additionally, the Company uses interest rate swaps to manage exposure to interest rate changes. Based on the current holdings of short term investments, as well as related swaps, the unhedged exposure to interest rate risk is not material for these instruments. Fixed rate debt obligations issued by the Company are generally not puttable until maturity and are not actively traded by the Company in the market. Therefore, exposure to interest rate risk is not believed to be material for the Companys fixed rate debt. Boeing Capital Corporations assets and liabilities, both fixed rate and floating rate, may be subject to interest rate risk to the extent that the maturities and repricing characteristics of the liabilities do not perfectly match those of the assets. The types and terms of borrowing and hedging instruments that are available to BCC in the market and possible changes in asset terms limit BCCs ability to match assets and liabilities. BCC attempts to keep this mismatch risk small, partly through the use of interest rate swaps, and does not believe it is materially exposed to gains or losses due to interest rate changes. BCC has used public market information and common valuation methods to determine the fair value of its assets and liabilities. The estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts BCC could realize in a current market exchange, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methods could have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. 41 At December 31, 2002, the book values of BCCs assets and liabilities were approximately $13 billion and $11 billion, respectively. BCC uses duration gap analysis to estimate the impact of changes in interest rates. Potential changes in twelve month net interest income and in the current discounted value of the assets and liabilities are calculated based on the amount and timing of cash flows projected from each. At December 31, 2002, the Company estimated that if market interest rates for all maturities were affected by an immediate, one time, 100 basis point increase, BCCs net earnings, taking into account increases in both revenue and interest expense, would have increased by an amount that is immaterial to the results of operations. Additionally, although the assets and liabilities impacted by a change in interest rates are generally not traded, BCC estimated that the net present value of these assets and liabilities would have changed by an amount that is immaterial to its financial position. Foreign currency exchange rate risk The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers in foreign currencies. The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts and options from time to time to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted foreign denominated payments and receipts related to its ongoing business and operational financing activities. Foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2002, a 10% unfavorable exchange rate movement in the Companys portfolio of foreign currency forward contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized loss of $30 million. Consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. When taken together, these forward contracts and the offsetting underlying commitments do not create material market risk. Commodity price risk The Company is subject to commodity price risk relating principally to energy used in production. The Company periodically uses commodity derivatives, such as fixed price purchase commitments, to hedge against potentially unfavorable price changes of commodities. Commodity price exposure related to unhedged contracts is not material. 42 
 
