ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FISCAL YEAR CHANGE In July 2001, we changed our fiscal year end from March 31 to December 31. The change was first effective with respect to the nine months ended December 31, 2001. FACTORS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY SALE OF PEABODY RESOURCES LIMITED OPERATIONS In December 2000, we signed a share purchase agreement for the sale of the stock in two U.K. holding companies which, in turn, owned our Peabody Resources Limited subsidiaries in Australia, to a subsidiary of Rio Tinto Limited. These operations consisted of interests in six coal mines, as well as a mining services operation in Brisbane, Australia. The sale price was $455.0 million in cash, plus the assumption of all liabilities. The sale closed on January 29, 2001. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS In August 2000, we sold Citizens Power, our subsidiary that marketed and traded electric power and energy related commodity risk management products, to Edison Mission Energy. We classified Citizens Power as a discontinued operation as of March 31, 2000, and recorded an estimated loss on the sale of $78.3 million, net of income taxes. 37 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources is based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles require that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. EMPLOYEE RELATED LIABILITIES Our subsidiaries have significant long term liabilities for postretirement benefit costs, workers compensation obligations and defined benefit pension plans. Detailed information related to these liabilities is included in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Liabilities for postretirement benefit costs and workers compensation obligations are not funded. Our pension obligations are funded in accordance with the provisions of federal law. Each of these liabilities are actuarially determined and we use various actuarial assumptions, including the discount rate and future cost trends, to estimate the costs and obligations for these items. We make assumptions related to future trends for medical care costs in the estimates of retiree health care and work related injuries and illnesses obligations. In addition, we make assumptions related to future compensation increases and rates of return on plan assets in the estimates of pension obligations. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, actual cash expenditures and costs that we incur could differ materially from our current estimates. Moreover, regulatory changes could increase our obligation to satisfy these or additional obligations. Expense for the year ended December 31, 2002 for these liabilities totaled $134.6 million, while payments were $143.9 million. RECLAMATION Our subsidiaries have significant long term liabilities relating to mine reclamation and end of mine closure costs. Liabilities are recorded for the estimated costs to reclaim land as the acreage is disturbed during the ongoing surface mining process. The estimated costs to reclaim support acreage and perform other functions at both surface and underground mines are recorded ratably over the lives of the mines. Reclamation liabilities are not funded. The liability is determined on a by mine basis and we use various assumptions, including estimates of disturbed acreage as determined from engineering data and the costs to reclaim the disturbed acreage. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, actual cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially different than currently estimated. Moreover, regulatory changes could increase our obligation to perform reclamation and mine closing activities. Expense related to reclamation liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $11.0 million, and payments totaled $21.4 million. Our method for accounting for reclamation activities changed on January 1, 2003 as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." The estimated effect of the adoption of SFAS No. 143 is discussed in the "Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Implemented" section of Item 7 of this report, below. 38 TRADING ACTIVITIES We engage in the buying and selling of coal and emission allowances in over the counter markets. During 2002, accounting requirements related to our trading activities changed due to the rescission of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 98 10 "Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities." Contracts we entered into after October 25, 2002 were only accounted for on a fair value basis if they met the SFAS No. 133 definition of a derivative. This accounting change is discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. To establish fair values for our trading contracts, we use bid/ask price quotations obtained from multiple, independent third party brokers to value coal and emission allowance positions. Prices from these sources are then averaged to obtain trading position values. We would experience difficulty in valuing our market positions if the number of third party brokers should decrease or market liquidity is reduced. Eighty nine percent of the contracts in our trading portfolio as of December 31, 2002 were valued utilizing prices from over the counter market sources. The remaining 11% of our contracts were valued based on over the counter market source prices adjusted for differences in coal quality and content, as well as contract duration. As of December 31, 2002, the timing of trading portfolio contract expirations is as follows: PERCENTAGE OF YEAR OF EXPIRATION PORTFOLIO 2003........................................................ 48% 2004........................................................ 43% 2005........................................................ 8% 2006........................................................ 1% 100% YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 (NOT PRESENTED HEREIN) Sales. Sales for the year ended December 31, 2002 increased $115.8 million, or 4.6%, to $2,630.4 million. U.S. sales increased $121.9 million, a 4.9% increase from the prior year. Pricing increases in all regions drove the sales increase. Our average sales price was 5.6% higher than the prior year. The average price increase was impacted by higher priced contracts signed in 2001 and a $27.7 million increase in sales related to a favorable arbitration ruling that resulted in a retroactive price increase on our Navajo station coal supply agreement. This ruling is discussed in detail in Note 24 to our consolidated financial statements. The pricing increase was partially mitigated by sales mix, as higher priced tons in the Appalachia and Midwest regions represented a lower percentage of overall sales in the current year compared to the prior year. U.S. mining and broker operations sales volume for the year ended December 31, 2002 was 183.5 million tons, which was 2.2 million tons below the prior year. We had lower sales volume at our Appalachia and Midwest operations, driven by soft market demand as a result of mild weather early in the year, a slower U.S. economy and more aggressive management of coal stockpile levels by customers. Volume decreases at our eastern operations more than offset a 1.4 million ton increase in sales volume at our western operations. Powder River Basin sales increased $130.3 million, due to improved pricing and slightly higher volume in the current year, driven by continued strong customer demand. Sales in the Southwest region were $33.9 million higher than the prior year, primarily due to the effect of the arbitration ruling previously discussed, combined with slightly higher pricing and volume. Appalachia region sales increased $7.7 million, as higher pricing offset lower volume from softer demand, which resulted in suspension of the Big Mountain Mine twice during the year and the Colony Bay Mine during the fourth quarter. Midwest region sales decreased $31.0 million, as higher prices were more than offset by lower volume due to 39 geologic problems at the Camp No. 11 Mine and delays in the startup of two new mines in the region, combined with softer coal demand in the current year. Finally, sales from coal brokerage activities decreased $20.3 million due to a change in sales mix and slightly lower volume. Sales from our Australian mining operations decreased $6.1 million compared to the prior year. The current year includes $9.9 million of sales related to the Wilkie Creek mining operations purchased in 2002, while the prior year included $16.0 million of sales from our Peabody Resources Limited operations that were sold in January 2001. Other Revenues. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002 decreased $7.9 million from the prior year, to $86.7 million. The current year included a $15.1 million gain from a mediated settlement related to the Mohave generating station coal supply agreement. This settlement is discussed in detail in Note 24 to our consolidated financial statements. Revenues from trading operations increased $9.0 million, primarily due to $10.0 million related to a forward sale that will settle during 2003 and 2004. These improvements were offset by significantly lower coal royalty revenues. Other revenues in the prior year included higher coal royalties of $12.0 million, primarily due to two non refundable advance royalties, $9.9 million related to the monetization of coal brokerage agreements that had increased in value due to favorable market conditions and $4.5 million of mining services revenues from our Peabody Resources Limited operations. Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses of $101.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 were $4.5 million lower than the prior year, due to the reduction of corporate expenses in response to difficult market conditions in the current year, combined with stock compensation charges recorded in the prior year related in part to our initial public offering. Gain on Sale of Peabody Resources Limited Operations. On January 29, 2001, we sold our Peabody Resources Limited operations to Coal & Allied, a 71% owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto Limited. The selling price was $455.0 million, plus the assumption of all liabilities. We recorded a pretax gain of $171.7 million on the sale ($124.2 million after taxes). Net Gain on Property and Equipment Disposals. Net gain on property and equipment disposals of $15.8 million was $0.8 million higher than the prior year. The current year included a $10.1 million gain related to the sale of a landfill site that we developed and permitted using idle assets to serve Los Angeles County. The prior year included a $6.4 million gain on the sale of certain idle coal reserves and other reserve and equipment sales. Operating Profit. Excluding the effect of the $171.7 million gain on sale of our Peabody Resources Limited operations, operating profit increased $21.1 million, or 13.8%, to $173.7 million. Operating profit from U.S. operations increased $22.6 million, or 15.3%, to $170.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase at the U.S. operations was driven by higher operating profit of $75.8 million from U.S. mining operations (excluding operating costs related to post mining activities and net gains on property disposals) as a result of higher overall pricing due to contracts signed in 2001, combined with the effects of the Navajo station arbitration ruling and Mohave station mediated settlement, which increased operating profit by $37.1 million. In the west, the Powder River Basin regions operating profit increased $31.5 million as improved prices and higher volume overcame higher royalty and tax expenses associated with improved prices, higher repair and maintenance costs and higher fixed costs associated with running mines at lower than anticipated capacity in the current year. The Southwest regions operating profit increased $21.6 million as the $37.1 million increase related to the Navajo arbitration ruling and Mohave mediated settlement was partially offset by higher truck, dragline and shovel maintenance and repairs expense. In addition, two outages of the Southwest regions coal transportation pipeline contributed to higher costs in the current year. In the east, both regions profits were negatively impacted by running mines at lower than anticipated capacity in the current year and charges in the fourth quarter related to the suspension of two mines in Appalachia due to lower than anticipated demand and the early closure of the Camp No. 11 Mine in the 40 Midwest due to geologic difficulties. Despite these issues, operating profit in the Midwest region increased $12.1 million compared to the prior year, as lower overall sales levels in the region and geologic difficulties at the Camp No. 11 mine were more than offset by improved pricing and lower fuel and maintenance and repair costs at Black Beauty. The Appalachia regions operating profit increased $10.6 million due to strong sales price improvement, which overcame higher per ton mining costs due to lower than planned production volume, the mine suspensions previously mentioned and production difficulties at the Harris Mines longwall. Operating profit from trading and brokerage operations increased $7.3 million over the prior year, primarily due to the $10.0 million transaction discussed above in "Other Revenues." Our trading volume increased to 66.9 million tons in 2002 from 53.7 million tons traded in the prior year. Operating costs related to post mining activities were $36.2 million higher in the year ended December 31, 2002, primarily due to $14.1 million of higher excise tax refunds in the prior year and a $17.2 million charge in the current year related to an adverse U.S. Supreme Court decision which assigned us responsibility for the health care premiums of certain beneficiaries previously withdrawn by the Social Security Administration as a result of a prior U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals decision. The remainder of the year over year increase related primarily to higher retiree healthcare costs. U.S. operations operating profit was also affected by lower coal royalty income of $12.8 million and lower results from other commercial activities of $7.3 million. The current year also included $2.8 million from our Wilkie Creek operations in Australia, while the prior year included operating profit of $4.3 million from Peabody Resources Limited operations prior to their sale in January 2001. Interest Expense. Interest expense for 2002 was $102.5 million, a decrease of $30.5 million, or 22.9%, from the prior year. The decrease in borrowing cost was due to the significant long term debt repayments made during 2001, and lower short term interest rates in the current year. Utilizing proceeds from the sale of our Peabody Resources Limited operations in January 2001 and our initial public offering in May 2001, we reduced long term debt by approximately $0.8 billion during 2001. As of December 31, 2002, our debt totaled approximately $1.0 billion. Interest Income. Interest income increased $3.7 million, to $7.6 million, for 2002. The current year included $4.6 million in interest income received related to excise tax refunds, while the prior year included interest earned on cash received from the sale of our Peabody Resources Limited operations in January 2001. Income Taxes. For 2002, we had an income tax benefit of $40.0 million on income before income taxes and minority interests of $78.8 million, compared to income tax expense of $41.5 million on income before income taxes and minority interests of $195.3 million in the prior year. Overall, our effective tax rate is sensitive to the benefit of the percentage depletion tax deduction relative to our annual profitability, as well as our ability to utilize our existing net operating loss carryforwards of over $500 million available for federal income tax purposes. In the prior year, the provision was affected by the sale of our Peabody Resources Limited operations. In 2002, our tax provision reflected significant tax benefits realized as a result of utilizing net operating loss carryforwards to offset taxable gains recognized in connection with the Penn Virginia (discussed in Item 2 of this report) and landfill sale transactions. Utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards allowed for the reduction of a previously recorded valuation allowance that had reduced the carrying value of our net operating loss carryforward tax benefits. Gain from Disposal of Discontinued Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2001, we reduced our loss on the sale of Citizens Power by $1.2 million. Extraordinary Loss from Early Extinguishment of Debt. During the year ended December 31, 2001, we repaid debt using proceeds from the sale of our Australian operations and our initial public offering. We recorded an extraordinary loss of $37.5 million, net of income taxes, which represented the excess of 41 cash paid over the carrying value of the debt retired and the write off of debt issuance costs associated with the debt retired. NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 (NOT PRESENTED HEREIN) Sales. Sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2001 for the U.S. operations (represents all of our operations, except for Australian operations sold in January 2001) increased $153.8 million, to $1,869.3 million, a 9.0% increase from the prior year nine month period. Improved sales volume in all mining operating regions and price improvements in all regions except the Midwest, where pricing remained level with the prior year nine month period, led the increase. Sales volume for the U.S. operations was 146.5 million tons for the nine months ended December 31, 2001, compared to 133.7 million tons for the prior year nine month period, an increase of 9.6%. Higher sales volume at our Powder River Basin, Southwest and Midwest operations led the increase, as our previous capital investments in these regions allowed us to meet increased customer demand. Overall U.S. operations average sales price was 2.8% higher than the prior year nine month period due to improved prices in the Appalachia and Powder River Basin markets that were driven by strong customer demand in those regions. The average pricing increase was slightly mitigated by sales mix, as the Appalachia and Midwest regions higher priced tons represented a lower percentage of overall sales in the nine months ended December 31, 2001 compared to the prior year nine month period. Total sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2001 decreased $20.4 million, or 1.1%, from the prior nine month period, as the prior period included $174.2 million in sales from our Peabody Resources Limited operations, from sales volume of 9.8 million tons. Powder River Basin sales increased $58.8 million, due to improved pricing and volume from strong customer demand. Sales in the Midwest region increased $35.0 million, led by improved operational performance and higher sales volume at our Black Beauty operations. This improvement was partially offset by lower production at the Camps operating unit related to equipment problems in the nine months ended December 31, 2001, combined with the closure of the Camp No. 1 Mine in October 2000. Appalachian sales increased $33.0 million, as a result of improved demand driven pricing. Sales in the Southwest region increased $28.1 million, as we expanded production at the Lee Ranch Mine to meet new sales commitments, and had higher demand at both of our Arizona mines. Other Revenues. Other revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2001 for U.S. operations increased $45.2 million over the prior year nine month period. The increase was primarily driven by higher revenues from trading and brokerage operations, and $9.9 million in proceeds from the profitable monetization of coal brokerage agreements with Enron. In addition, coal royalty income increased $10.9 million, primarily due to two non refundable advance coal royalties received during the nine months ended December 31, 2001. Other revenues from Peabody Resources Limited operations included in the prior nine month period were $43.8 million. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense at U.S. operations increased $17.7 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2001, as compared with the prior year nine month period. Higher production volume, combined with $3.6 million of additional depletion associated with the new coal royalty agreements discussed above, and $2.0 million of depletion associated with coalbed methane operations acquired early in 2001 led to the increase. Total depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of $174.6 million decreased $5.6 million, as the nine months ended December 31, 2000 included $23.3 million of expense from Australian operations. Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses of $73.6 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2001 increased $6.6 million compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2000. Selling and administrative expenses associated with increased volume, power plant development projects, higher insurance costs, and additional costs associated with being a public company drove the increase. 42 Net Gain on Property and Equipment Disposals. Net gain on property and equipment disposals increased $9.3 million, mainly due to gains on the sale of certain idle coal reserves in the nine months ended December 31, 2001. Operating Profit. Operating profit from U.S. operations increased $31.5 million, or 37.6%, for the nine months ended December 31, 2001. Overall operating profit decreased $17.5 million, or 13.2%, compared to the prior year nine month period, which included $49.0 million of operating profit from Australian operations. Operating profit from U.S. mining operations increased $17.0 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2001, driven primarily by increased sales prices, especially in Appalachia and the Powder River Basin. The profit increase was achieved despite increased royalty and tax expense, increased energy related mining costs, and higher maintenance, repair, and overtime costs. Royalty and tax expense, driven by higher sales prices, increased $20.5 million. Energy related mining costs, particularly explosives costs, increased $17.4 million. Finally, maintenance and repair costs and overtime costs increased in most regions due to extended periods of producing at peak levels. In the west, the Powder River Basin regions operating profit increased $14.0 million, as higher volume and improved prices overcame higher explosives, fuel and repair and maintenance costs. In the Southwest region, operating profit was flat as higher sales volume was offset by higher explosives and power costs. In the east, the Appalachia regions operating profit increased $12.7 million due to strong sales prices, which overcame higher maintenance and repairs and labor costs driven by certain production difficulties and severe flooding in the current nine month period. Operating profit in the Midwest region declined $9.3 million, as higher sales volume and improved productivity at our Black Beauty operations were more than offset by higher fuel and explosives costs at Black Beauty and production and equipment problems at the Camps operating unit in the nine months ended December 31, 2001. Operating costs related to post mining activities were $9.8 million higher in the nine months ended December 31, 2001, primarily due to a $10.0 million reduction of our UMWA Combined Fund liability related to the withdrawal of certain beneficiaries by the Social Security Administration in the prior year nine month period. In the nine months ended December 31, 2001, savings from prescription drug costs as a result of the implementation of a mail order drug program were offset by an $8.0 million reduction in the prior year nine month period of our liability for environmental cleanup related costs. Operating profit from trading and brokerage operations increased $16.4 million, as increased market volatility, liquidity and improved sourcing flexibility provided product and price arbitrage opportunities. The increase was achieved despite a $6.6 million charge related to the Enron bankruptcy in the nine months ended December 31, 2001. Operating profit also improved due to higher gains on the sale of coal reserves and increased coal royalties, discussed above. Increased selling and administrative costs decreased operating profit by $6.6 million. Interest Expense. Interest expense for the nine months ended December 31, 2001 was $88.7 million, a $64.8 million decrease, or 42.2%, from the prior year nine month period. The decrease was due to the significant long term debt repayments made since December 31, 2000. Utilizing proceeds from the sale of our Australian operations, combined with proceeds from our initial public offering in May 2001, we reduced long term debt by $835 million from December 31, 2000 to December 31, 2001. We also benefited from a decrease in our average borrowing rate on our variable rate debt in the nine months ended December 31, 2001. Additionally, we entered into fixed to floating rate interest rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million in October 2001, and realized interest savings of $0.6 million. Interest Income. Interest income decreased $4.8 million, to $2.2 million, for the nine months ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was mainly due to $3.6 million of interest income included in the prior 43 year nine month period associated with excise tax refunds for the period from January 1, 1994 to March 31, 1998. Income Taxes. For the nine months ended December 31, 2001, income tax expense was $2.5 million on income before income taxes and minority interests of $29.0 million, compared to income tax expense of $3.7 million on a loss before income taxes and minority interests of $13.4 million in the prior year nine month period. Excluding the effect of Australian operating results included in the prior year nine month period, there was an income tax benefit of $13.8 million on a loss before income taxes and minority interests of $57.4 million. Overall, our effective tax rate is sensitive to the benefit of the percentage depletion tax deduction relative to our annual profitability, as well as our ability to utilize our existing net operating loss carryforwards. Income taxes for the nine months ended December 31, 2001 reflected a reduction in our effective income tax rate from 25.0% to 8.5%, primarily resulting from the impact of the allowance for percentage depletion for tax purposes in relation to pre tax income from continuing operations. Gain from Disposal of Discontinued Operations. During the nine months ended December 31, 2000, we reduced our estimated loss on the sale of Citizens Power by $11.8 million, net of income taxes. The reduction reflected a decrease in the estimated operating losses of Citizens Power during the disposal period due to higher income from electricity trading activities driven by increased volatility and prices for electricity in the western U.S. power markets ($8.8 million) and higher estimated proceeds from the monetization of power contracts as part of the wind down of Citizens Powers operations ($3.0 million). Citizens Power was classified as a discontinued operation effective March 31, 2000, and the sale was completed during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001. Extraordinary Loss from Early Extinguishment of Debt. During the nine months ended December 31, 2001, we recorded an extraordinary loss of $29.0 million, net of income taxes, which represented the excess of cash paid over the carrying value of the debt retired and the write off of debt issuance costs associated with the debt retired. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash provided by operating activities was $231.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, an increase of $58.7 million, or 34% from the year ended December 31, 2001. Income before taxes and minority interests (excluding the gain on sale of Peabody Resources Limited operations included in the prior year) was $55.2 million higher than the prior year. Working capital cash usages were $22.8 million higher in 2002, while reclamation, workers compensation and retiree healthcare spending was $26.5 million lower in 2002. Net cash used in investing activities was $144.1 million for 2002, compared to cash provided by investing activities of $247.2 million in the prior year. The prior year included $455.0 million of proceeds from the sale of our Peabody Resources Limited operations, and $16.9 million of proceeds related to the sale of Citizens Power. Capital expenditures decreased $27.7 million, to $208.6 million, in 2002. These capital expenditures were primarily for the replacement of mining equipment, the expansion of capacity at certain mines and projects to improve the efficiency of mining operations. Proceeds from property and equipment disposals increased $110.7 million to $125.4 million; proceeds in the current year included $72.5 million received related to our contribution of reserves to Penn Virginia and $27.7 million related to the landfill sale. Finally, 2002 included higher acquisition expenditures of $38.1 million. The 2002 acquisitions are discussed in detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Net cash used by financing activities was $54.8 million for 2002, compared with cash used in financing activities of $414.1 million in the prior year. The prior year included $449.8 million of net proceeds from our initial public offering. Net debt repayments were $842.9 million higher in 2001, principally as a result of the usage of proceeds received from the sale of our Peabody Resources Limited operations and our initial public offering to repay debt. We also received a $19.9 million dividend in 2001 44 from our Peabody Resources Limited operations. In addition, we increased dividends paid to our shareholders by $10.5 million in 2002. The following table reflects our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2002 (in thousands): 9.625% Senior Subordinated Notes ("Senior Subordinated Notes") due 2008.......................................... $ 391,490 8.875% Senior Notes ("Senior Notes") due 2008............... 316,498 5.0% Subordinated Note...................................... 85,055 Senior unsecured notes under various agreements............. 58,214 Unsecured revolving credit agreement of Black Beauty........ 116,584 Other....................................................... 61,370 Total debt........................................ $1,029,211 As of December 31, 2002, our revolving credit and letter of credit borrowing facilities included the $480.0 million Revolving Credit Facility under our Senior Credit Facility and Black Beautys $140.0 million revolving credit facility. The Revolving Credit Facility has a borrowing sub limit of $350.0 million and a letter of credit sub limit of $330.0 million. Together, these facilities total $620.0 million, and had a total of $316.6 million available for borrowing as of December 31, 2002. Revolving loans under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest based on the Base Rate (as defined in the Senior Credit Facility), or LIBOR (as defined in the Senior Credit Facility) at our option. The applicable rate was 2.9% at December 31, 2002. Black Beauty has a $140.0 million revolving credit facility that matures on April 17, 2004. Black Beauty may elect one or a combination of interest rates based on LIBOR or the corporate base rate plus a margin, which fluctuates based on specified leverage ratios. The effective annual interest rate was 3.0% as of December 31, 2002. The revolving credit facility contains customary restrictive covenants including limitations on additional debt, investments and dividends. As of December 31, 2002, we had borrowings of $116.6 million outstanding under the Black Beauty revolving credit facility and no borrowings outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility. The following is a summary of commercial commitments available to us under our Revolving Credit Facility and Black Beautys revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2002 (in thousands): EXPIRATION PER YEAR TOTAL AMOUNTS WITHIN COMMITTED 1 YEAR 2 3 YEARS 4 5 YEARS OVER 5 YEARS Lines of credit............. $490,000 $490,000 Standby letters of credit... 330,000 330,000 As of December 31, 2002, we have issued letters of credit totaling $186.8 million under our Revolving Credit Facility, leaving $143.2 million of letter of credit capacity available under the Revolving Credit Facility. We are considering the acquisition of the 18.3% minority interest of Black Beauty. Should we complete this acquisition, we anticipate funding it from our available borrowing capacity. The indentures governing our Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes permit us and our Restricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the indentures) to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, subject to certain limitations. In addition, the indentures limit our and our Restricted Subsidiaries ability to: lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; issue specified types of capital stock; enter into guarantees of indebtedness; incur liens; merge or consolidate with any other person or enter into transactions with affiliates; and repurchase junior securities or make specified types of investments. The indentures permit us to pay annual dividends of up to the greater of 6% ($27.0 million) of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, or additional amounts based on, among other things, the sum of 50% of cumulative defined net income (since July 1, 1998) and 100% of the 45 proceeds of our initial public offering. We expressly reserve the right, at our sole discretion, from time to time, to purchase any notes, in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. On February 27, 2003, we commenced a tender offer to purchase for cash any and all of our outstanding Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes. The tender offer or any redemption of notes on May 15, 2003 will be conditioned upon obtaining sufficient proceeds from the refinancing initiatives announced in February 2003. These initiatives include a new $600 million revolving credit facility and a new $600 million bank term loan, and issuance of other senior debt in the amount of $500 million. We intend to use a portion of the net proceeds from these financings to fund the purchase of the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes in connection with the tender offer. We intend to call for redemption on May 15, 2003, in accordance with the applicable indenture, all notes that remain outstanding after the tender offer, at the redemption price of 104.438% of the principal amount with respect to the Senior Notes and at the redemption price of 104.813% of the principal amount with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes, plus interest accrued and unpaid up to but not including, the redemption date. We have designated interest rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million as a fair value hedge of our Senior Notes. Under the swaps, we pay a floating rate based upon the six month LIBOR rate for a period of seven years ending May 15, 2008. The applicable rate was 5.41% as of December 31, 2002. We realized interest savings of $4.2 million related to the swaps during 2002. During the year, Fitch Ratings, Inc. affirmed its investment grade BBB rating on the corporate senior unsecured notes and unsecured bank revolver of Black Beauty. On October 2, 2002, Moodys assigned us an SGL 1 liquidity rating. Under Moodys rating system, SGL 1 means "very good" liquidity. Moodys SGL ratings, an assessment of liquidity, are used to supplement the current Moodys credit ratings for companies rated from "Ba1" to "C." In January 2003, Standard & Poors announced that it assigned its BB+ rating to our Senior Credit Facility. The agency also affirmed its BB corporate credit rating and its stable outlook. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 (in thousands): PAYMENTS DUE BY YEAR WITHIN AFTER 1 YEAR 2 3 YEARS 4 5 YEARS 5 YEARS Long term debt............................. $ 47,515 $196,502 $ 70,563 $714,631 Capital lease obligations.................. 3,879 976 372 16 Operating leases........................... 100,526 165,158 100,863 87,505 Unconditional purchase obligations......... 56,825 Coal reserve obligations................... 24,676 51,696 48,617 66,027 Total contractual cash obligations.... $233,421 $414,332 $220,415 $868,179 Additionally, we have long term liabilities relating to retiree health care (postretirement benefits and multi employer benefit plans), work related injuries and illnesses, defined benefit pension plans and mine reclamation and end of mine closure costs. The following is the estimated spending related to these items as of December 31, 2002 (in thousands): ESTIMATED EXPENDITURES Within 1 Year............................................... $201,200 2 3 Years................................................... 378,300 4 5 Years................................................... 410,000 We had $56.8 million of committed capital expenditures at December 31, 2002. Total capital expenditures for 2003 are expected to range from $175 million to $200 million, and have been and will be 46 primarily used to develop existing reserves, replace or add equipment, acquire additional low sulfur or other strategic coal reserves and fund cost reduction initiatives. We anticipate funding these capital expenditures through operating cash flow. In addition, cash requirements to fund employee related and reclamation liabilities included above are expected to be funded from operating cash flow, along with obligations related to long term debt, capital and operating leases and coal reserves. We believe the risk of generating lower than anticipated operating cash flow in 2003 is reduced by our high level of sales commitments (95% of 2003 planned production) and recent efforts to improve our operating cost structure. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS In the normal course of business, we are a party to certain off balance sheet arrangements. These arrangements include guarantees, indemnifications, financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, such as bank letters of credit and performance or surety bonds and our $140.0 million accounts receivable securitization. Liabilities related to these arrangements are not reflected in our consolidated balance sheets, and we do not expect any material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to result from these off balance sheet arrangements. We use surety bonds to secure our reclamation, workers compensation, postretirement benefits and coal lease obligations. As of December 31, 2002, we had outstanding surety bonds with third parties for post mining reclamation totaling $622.6 million. We had an additional $164.4 million of surety bonds in place for workers compensation and retiree healthcare obligations and $69.0 million of surety bonds securing coal leases. Recently, surety bond costs have increased, while the market terms of surety bonds have generally become less favorable to us. To the extent that surety bonds become unavailable, we would seek to secure our obligations with letters of credit, cash deposits or other suitable forms of collateral. We have guaranteed $14.9 million of debt of an affiliate in which we have a 49% equity investment, as described in Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements. We maintain letters of credit totaling $223.8 million to secure lease, workers compensation, postretirement benefits, and other obligations, as discussed in Notes 11, 15, 17 and 22, respectively, to our consolidated financial statements. Our remaining guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements. In March 2000, we established an accounts receivable securitization program. Under the program, undivided interests in a pool of eligible trade receivables that have been contributed to the Seller are sold, without recourse, to a multi seller, asset backed commercial paper conduit ("Conduit"). Purchases by the Conduit are financed with the sale of highly rated commercial paper. We used proceeds from the sale of our accounts receivable to repay long term debt, effectively reducing our overall borrowing costs. The funding cost of the securitization program was $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The securitization program is currently scheduled to expire in 2007. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," the securitization transactions have been recorded as sales, with those accounts receivable sold to the Conduit removed from our consolidated balance sheet. The amount of undivided interests in accounts receivable sold to the Conduit were $136.4 million as of December 31, 2002. A detailed description of our $140.0 million accounts receivable securitization is included in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS NOT YET IMPLEMENTED In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 addresses accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. This Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002 (effective January 1, 2003 for Peabody), and primarily changes the manner in which we recognize expense for final reclamation of acreage disturbed during the mining process. Based on recent industry implementation guidance, we anticipate recording a cumulative gain of approximately $10 million to $15 million, net of income taxes, upon adoption of SFAS No. 143. Beginning 47 with 2003, we expect depreciation and accretion expense of approximately $10 million to $15 million in addition to the $11.0 million of expense recorded for final reclamation for the year ended December 31, 2002. Future changes to implementation guidance, if any, could result in changes to these anticipated impacts. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections," which is effective January 1, 2003 for Peabody. As a result of SFAS No. 145, gains or losses on debt extinguishment previously reported as extraordinary items will be presented as a component of results from continuing operations unless the extinguishment meets the criteria for classification as an extraordinary item in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30. On February 27, 2003, we commenced a tender offer to purchase for cash any and all of our outstanding Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes. The tender offer or any redemption of notes on May 15, 2003 will be conditioned upon obtaining sufficient proceeds from the refinancing initiatives announced in February 2003. These initiatives include a new $600 million revolving credit facility and a new $600 million bank term loan, and issuance of other senior debt in the amount of $500 million. Any charges incurred pursuant to the extinguishment of our existing debt as a result of the refinancing will impact our results from continuing operations. On October 25, 2002, the EITF rescinded EITF Issue No. 98 10 "Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities." The effects of the rescission on the Companys accounting for coal and emission allowance trading activities are discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. As a result of the rescission, energy trading contracts we entered into after October 25, 2002 are evaluated under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." The effect of the rescission on non derivative energy trading contracts entered into prior to October 25, 2002 will be recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2003. We anticipate we will record a cumulative effect loss of $15 to $20 million, net of income taxes, to reverse the net unrealized gains on non derivative energy trading contracts recorded prior to December 31, 2002. These non derivative energy trading contracts will settle in 2003 and 2004. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" (FIN 45). The disclosure requirements of FIN 45 are effective for our 2002 consolidated financial statements. For applicable guarantees issued after January 1, 2003, FIN 45 requires that a guarantor recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. We do not believe that the accounting requirements of FIN 45 will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" (FIN 46), which requires the consolidation of variable interest entities, as defined. FIN 46 is applicable to financial statements to be issued after 2002; however, disclosures are required currently if any variable interest entities are expected to be consolidated. We do not believe that any entities will be consolidated as a result of FIN 46. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY IF A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR LONG TERM COAL SUPPLY AGREEMENTS TERMINATE, OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING PROFITS COULD SUFFER IF WE WERE UNABLE TO FIND ALTERNATE BUYERS WILLING TO PURCHASE OUR COAL ON COMPARABLE TERMS TO THOSE IN OUR CONTRACTS. A substantial portion of our sales are made under coal supply agreements, which are important to the stability and profitability of our operations. The execution of a satisfactory coal supply agreement is frequently the basis on which we undertake the development of coal reserves required to be supplied under the contract. For the year ended December 31, 2002, 97% of our sales volume was sold under long term coal supply agreements. At December 31, 2002, our coal supply agreements had remaining terms ranging from one to 18 years and an average volume weighted remaining term of approximately 4.4 years. 48 Many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price upward or downward at specified times. We may adjust these contract prices based on inflation and or changes in the factors affecting the cost of producing coal, such as taxes, fees, royalties and changes in the laws regulating the mining, production, sale or use of coal. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on a price under those provisions may allow either party to terminate the contract. We sometimes experience a reduction in coal prices in new long term coal supply agreements replacing some of our expiring contracts. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Moreover, some of these agreements permit the customer to terminate the contract if transportation costs, which our customers typically bear, increase substantially. In addition, some of these contracts allow our customers to terminate their contracts in the event of changes in regulations affecting our industry that increase the price of coal beyond specified limits. The operating profits we realize from coal sold under supply agreements depend on a variety of factors. In addition, price adjustment and other provisions may increase our exposure to short term coal price volatility provided by those contracts. If a substantial portion of our coal supply agreements were modified or terminated, we could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to find alternate buyers for our coal at the same level of profitability. Some of our coal supply agreements are for prices above current market prices. Although market prices for coal increased in most regions in 2001, market prices for coal decreased in most regions in 2002. As a result, we cannot predict the future strength of the coal market and cannot assure you that we will be able to replace existing long term coal supply agreements at the same prices or with similar profit margins when they expire. In addition, two of our coal supply agreements are the subject of ongoing litigation and arbitration, as discussed in Item 3 of this report. THE LOSS OF, OR SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION IN, PURCHASES BY OUR LARGEST CUSTOMERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES. For the year ended December 31, 2002, we derived 28% of our total coal revenues from sales to our five largest customers. At December 31, 2002, we had 31 coal supply agreements with these customers that expire at various times from 2003 to 2015. We are currently discussing the extension of existing agreements or entering into new long term agreements with some of these customers, but these negotiations may not be successful and those customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long term coal supply agreements. If a number of these customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we were unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. In addition, we sold 4.6 million tons of coal to the Mohave Generating Station in 2002. We have a long term coal supply agreement with the owners of the Mohave Generating Station that expires on December 31, 2005. There is a dispute with the Hopi Tribe regarding the use of groundwater in the transportation of coal by pipeline to the Mohave Generating Station. Also, Southern California Edison (the majority owner and operator of the plant) is involved in a California Public Utility Commission proceeding related to recovery of future capital expenditures for new pollution abatement equipment for the station. As a result of these issues, the owners of the Mohave Generating Station have announced that they expect to idle the plant for at least 12 to 18 months beginning in 2006. We are in active discussions to resolve the complex issues critical to the continuation of the operation of the Mohave Generating Station and the renewal of the coal supply agreement after December 31, 2005. There is no assurance that the issues critical to the continued operation of the Mohave Generating Station will be resolved. The Mohave Generating Station is the sole customer of our Black Mesa Mine, which produces and sells 4.5 to 49 5 million tons of coal per year. If we are unable to renew the coal supply agreement with the Mohave Generating Station, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected after 2005. OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY OUR SUBSTANTIAL DEBT. Our financial performance could be affected by our substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2002, we had total indebtedness of $1,029.2 million. We currently have total borrowing capacity under our and Black Beautys revolving credit facilities of $490.0 million. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt depends upon the operating performance of our subsidiaries, which will be affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions in the markets they serve, some of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available under our revolving credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: (1) making it more difficult for us to pay dividends and satisfy our debt obligations; (2) increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (3) requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of the cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development or other general corporate uses; (4) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development or other general corporate requirements; (5) limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and (6) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. In addition, our indebtedness subjects us to financial and other restrictive covenants. Failure by us to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, substantially all of our assets, except for the assets of Black Beauty Coal Company and its affiliates, secure our indebtedness under our senior credit facility. IF TRANSPORTATION FOR OUR COAL BECOMES UNAVAILABLE OR UNECONOMIC FOR OUR CUSTOMERS, OUR ABILITY TO SELL COAL COULD SUFFER. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal, and as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customers purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make some of our operations less competitive than other sources of coal. Certain coal supply agreements permit the customer to terminate the contract if the cost of transportation increases by an amount ranging from 10% to 20% in any given 12 month period. Coal producers depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to deliver coal to markets. While U.S. coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of coal from the mine to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather related problems, strikes, lock outs or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and thus could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, the high volume of coal shipped from all Southern Powder River Basin mines could create temporary congestion on the rail systems servicing that region. RISKS INHERENT TO MINING COULD INCREASE THE COST OF OPERATING OUR BUSINESS. Our mining operations are subject to conditions beyond our control that can delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include weather and natural disasters, unexpected maintenance problems, key equipment failures, variations in coal seam thickness, variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the coal deposit, variations in rock and other natural materials and variations in geologic conditions. 50 THE GOVERNMENT EXTENSIVELY REGULATES OUR MINING OPERATIONS, WHICH IMPOSES SIGNIFICANT COSTS ON US, AND FUTURE REGULATIONS COULD INCREASE THOSE COSTS OR LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO PRODUCE COAL. Federal, state and local authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. In addition, significant legislation mandating specified benefits for retired coal miners affects our industry. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be costly and time consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new legislation and or regulations and orders may be adopted that may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and or our customers ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. The majority of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchasers plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the United States and over 160 other nations are signatories to the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide. In December 1997, in Kyoto, Japan, the signatories to the convention established a binding set of emission targets for developed nations. Although the specific emission targets vary from country to country, the United States would be required to reduce emissions to 93% of 1990 levels over a five year budget period from 2008 through 2012. Although the United States has not ratified the emission targets and no comprehensive regulations focusing on U.S. greenhouse gas emissions are in place, these restrictions, whether through ratification of the emission targets or other efforts to stabilize or reduce greenhouse gas emissions, could adversely impact the price of and demand for coal. According to the Energy Information Administrations Emissions of Greenhouse Gases in the United States 2001, coal accounts for 32% of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States, and efforts to control greenhouse gas emissions could result in reduced use of coal if electricity generators switch to sources of fuel with lower carbon dioxide emissions. Further developments in connection with regulations or other limits on carbon dioxide emissions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. OUR EXPENDITURES FOR POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT AND PENSION OBLIGATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY HIGHER THAN WE HAVE PREDICTED IF OUR UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS PROVE TO BE INCORRECT. We provide postretirement health and life insurance benefits to eligible union and non union employees. We calculated the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," which we estimate had a present value of $1,031.7 million as of December 31, 2002, $72.1 million of which was a current liability. We have estimated these unfunded obligations based on assumptions described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Moreover, regulatory changes could increase our obligations to provide these or additional benefits. We are party to an agreement with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or the PBGC, and TXU Europe Limited, an affiliate of our former parent corporation, under which we are required to make specified contributions to two of our defined benefit pension plans and to maintain a $37.0 million letter of credit in favor of the PBGC. If we or the PBGC give notice of an intent to terminate one or more of the 51 covered pension plans in which liabilities are not fully funded, or if we fail to maintain the letter of credit, the PBGC may draw down on the letter of credit and use the proceeds to satisfy liabilities under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. The PBGC, however, is required to first apply amounts received from a $110.0 million guaranty in place from TXU Europe Limited in favor of the PBGC before it draws on our letter of credit. On November 19, 2002 TXU Europe Limited was placed under the administration process in the United Kingdom (a process similar to bankruptcy proceedings in the United States). As a result of these proceedings, TXU Europe Limited may be liquidated or otherwise reorganized in such a way as to relieve it of its obligations under its guaranty. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries participate in two multi employer pension funds and have an obligation to contribute to a multi employer defined contribution benefit fund. Contributions to these funds could increase as a result of future collective bargaining with the United Mine Workers of America, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency of other coal companies who currently contribute, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets, higher medical and drug costs or other funding deficiencies. Certain of our subsidiaries are statutorily obligated to contribute to the 1992 Fund under the Coal Act. Contributions to this fund could increase as a result of a shrinking contribution base and increasing beneficiaries due to the insolvency of other coal companies who currently contribute, higher medical and drug costs or other funding deficiencies. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS UPON OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE ACQUIRING AND DEVELOPING COAL RESERVES THAT ARE ECONOMICALLY RECOVERABLE. Our recoverable reserves decline as we produce coal. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to use all of our reserves. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. Our future success depends upon our conducting successful exploration and development activities or acquiring properties containing economically recoverable reserves. Our current strategy includes increasing our reserve base through acquisitions of government and other leases and producing properties and continuing to use our existing properties. The federal government also leases natural gas and coalbed methane reserves in the west, including in the Powder River Basin. Some of these natural gas and coalbed methane reserves are located on, or adjacent to, some of our Powder River Basin reserves, potentially creating conflicting interests between us and lessees of those interests. Other lessees rights relating to these mineral interests could prevent, delay or increase the cost of developing our coal reserves. These lessees may also seek damages from us based on claims that our coal mining operations impair their interests. Additionally, the federal government limits the amount of federal land that may be leased by any company to 150,000 acres nationwide. As of December 31, 2002, we leased or had applied to lease a total of 69,402 acres from the federal government. The limit could restrict our ability to lease additional federal lands. Our planned development and exploration projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional reserves and we may not have continuing success developing additional mines. Most of our mining operations are conducted on properties owned or leased by us. Because title to most of our leased properties and mineral rights are not thoroughly verified until a permit to mine the property is obtained, our right to mine some of our reserves may be materially adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In addition, in order to develop our reserves, we must receive various governmental permits. We cannot predict whether we will continue to receive the permits necessary for us to operate profitably in the future. We may not be able to negotiate new leases from the government or from private parties or obtain mining contracts for properties containing additional reserves or maintain our leasehold interest in properties on which mining operations are not commenced during the term of the lease. From time to time, we have experienced litigation with lessors of our coal properties and with royalty holders. IF THE COAL INDUSTRY EXPERIENCES OVERCAPACITY IN THE FUTURE, OUR PROFITABILITY COULD BE IMPAIRED. During the mid 1970s and early 1980s, a growing coal market and increased demand for coal attracted new investors to the coal industry, spurred the development of new mines and resulted in added production capacity throughout the industry, all of which led to increased competition and lower coal 52 prices. Similarly, an increase in future coal prices could encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any overcapacity could reduce coal prices in the future. OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN SATISFACTORY LABOR RELATIONS. As of December 31, 2002, the United Mine Workers of America represented approximately 31% of our employees, who produced 19% of our coal sales volume during 2002. An additional 4% of our employees are represented by labor unions other than the United Mine Workers of America. These employees produced 3% of our coal sales volume during 2002. Because of the higher labor costs and the increased risk of strikes and other work related stoppages that may be associated with union operations in the coal industry, our non unionized competitors may have a competitive advantage in areas where they compete with our unionized operations. If some or all of our current non union operations were to become unionized, we could incur an increased risk of work stoppages, reduced productivity and higher labor costs. The ten month United Mine Workers of America strike in 1993 had a material adverse effect on us. Two of our subsidiaries, Peabody Coal Company and Eastern Associated Coal Corp., operate under a union contract that is in effect through December 31, 2006. Peabody Western Coal Company operates under a union contract that is in effect through September 1, 2005. OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN REQUIRED SURETY BONDS. Federal and state laws require bonds to secure our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers compensation, to secure coal lease obligations and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. As of December 31, 2002, we had outstanding surety bonds with third parties for post mining reclamation totaling $622.6 million. Furthermore, we had an additional $164.4 million of surety bonds in place for workers compensation and retiree healthcare obligations and $69.0 million of surety bonds securing coal leases. These bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis. It has become increasingly difficult for us to secure new surety bonds or renew bonds without the posting of partial collateral. In addition, surety bond costs have increased while the market terms of surety bonds have generally become less favorable to us. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand additional collateral upon those renewals. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds that are required by state and federal law would have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including the following: lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new surety bonds; restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future third party surety bond issuers under the terms of our indentures or senior credit facility; and the exercise by third party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety. LEHMAN BROTHERS MERCHANT BANKING HAS SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE ON ALL STOCKHOLDER VOTES AND MAY HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WITH OTHER STOCKHOLDERS IN THE FUTURE. At December 31, 2002, Lehman Brothers Merchant Banking and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 41% of our common stock. As a result, Lehman Brothers Merchant Banking will effectively continue to be able to influence the election of our directors and determine our corporate and management policies and actions, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of Lehman Brothers Merchant Banking may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. We have retained affiliates of Lehman Brothers Merchant Banking to perform advisory and financing services for us in the past, and may continue to do so in the future. OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE OUR COMPANY EFFECTIVELY COULD BE IMPAIRED IF WE LOSE KEY PERSONNEL. We manage our business with a number of key personnel, in particular the executive officers discussed previously in Part I, Item 4A of this report. The loss of a number of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success 53 will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We do not have "key person" life insurance to cover our executive officers. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. TERRORIST ATTACKS AND THREATS, ESCALATION OF MILITARY ACTIVITY IN RESPONSE TO SUCH ATTACKS OR ACTS OF WAR MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers, may materially adversely affect our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as energy related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR ABILITY TO COLLECT PAYMENTS FROM OUR CUSTOMERS COULD BE IMPAIRED IF THEIR CREDITWORTHINESS DETERIORATES. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. Our customer base is changing with deregulation as utilities sell their power plants to their non regulated affiliates or third parties. These new power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. In addition, the creditworthiness of certain of our customers and trading counterparties has deteriorated due to lower than anticipated demand for energy and lower volume and volatility in the traded energy markets in 2002. If deterioration of the creditworthiness of other electric power generator customers or trading counterparties continues, our $140.0 million accounts receivable securitization program and our business could be adversely affected. OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BY LAWS INCLUDE PROVISIONS THAT MAY DISCOURAGE A TAKEOVER ATTEMPT. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and by laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our by laws and certificate of incorporation impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of the stockholders rights plan adopted by our board of directors. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK TRADING ACTIVITIES TRADING ACTIVITIES We market and trade coal and emission allowances. These activities give rise to commodity price risk, which represents the potential loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular commitment. We actively measure, monitor and adjust traded position levels to remain within risk limits 54 prescribed by management. For example, we have policies in place that limit the amount of total exposure we may assume at any point in time. We account for coal and emission allowance trading using the fair value method, which requires us to reflect financial instruments with third parties, such as forwards, futures, options and swaps, at market value in our consolidated financial statements. Our policy for accounting for coal and emission allowance trading activities is described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. We perform a value at risk analysis on our trading portfolio, which includes over the counter and brokerage trading of coal and emission allowances. The use of value at risk allows us to quantify in dollars, on a daily basis, the price risk inherent in our trading portfolio. Our value at risk model is based on the industry standard risk metrics variance/co variance approach. This captures our exposure related to both option and forward positions. Our value at risk model assumes a 15 day holding period and a 95% one tailed confidence interval. The use of value at risk allows management to aggregate pricing risks across products in the portfolio, compare risk on a consistent basis and identify the drivers of risk. Due to the subjectivity in the choice of the liquidation period, reliance on historical data to calibrate the models and the inherent limitations in the value at risk methodology, including the use of delta/gamma adjustments related to options, we perform regular stress, back testing and scenario analysis to estimate the impacts of market changes on the value of the portfolio. The results of these analyses are used to supplement the value at risk methodology and identify additional market related risks. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the low, high, and average values at risk for our coal trading portfolio were $0.3 million, $3.9 million, and $1.7 million, respectively. Our emission allowance value at risk during the year ended December 31, 2002 never exceeded $0.2 million. Forty eight percent of the value of our trading portfolio is scheduled to be realized by the end of 2003, and 91% of the value of our trading portfolio is scheduled to be realized by the end of 2004. We also monitor other types of risk associated with our coal and emission allowance trading activities, including credit, market liquidity and counterparty nonperformance. NON TRADING ACTIVITIES We manage our commodity price risk for non trading purposes through the use of long term coal supply agreements, rather than through the use of derivative instruments. We sold 97% of our sales volume under long term coal supply agreements during 2002. We have sales commitments for 95% of our 2003 production. Some of the products used in our mining activities, such as diesel fuel, are subject to price volatility. We, through our suppliers, utilize forward contracts to manage the exposure related to this volatility. We have exposure to changes in interest rates due to our existing level of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2002, after taking into consideration the effects of interest rate swaps, we had $721.5 million of fixed rate borrowings and $307.7 million of variable rate borrowings outstanding. A one percent increase in interest rates would result in an annualized increase to interest expense of $3.1 million on our variable rate borrowings. With respect to our fixed rate borrowings, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would result in a $34.4 million decrease in the fair value of these borrowings. 
 
