FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20030227092811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 27, 2003 NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION (exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Virginia 1-8339 52-1188014 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Virginia 23510-9241 (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (757) 629-2680 No Change (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. On February 27 and 28, several senior officers of Norfolk Southern Corporation will give the presentations attached hereto as Exhibit 99 at the Corporation's conference facilities at Brosnan Forest in Dorchester, South Carolina. Statements about future results made in the materials furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements (which usually are introduced with words such as "expect," "anticipate," " plan," "believe" and other words having a similar meaning and used in connection with future events) are founded on expectations, estimates and projections that reflect Management's good-faith evaluation of information available at the time the statements were made. As such, they are based upon, and will be influenced by, a number of external variables -- more particularly described and identified in our most recent annual report and quarterly report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q -- over which the Corporation may have no, or incomplete, control: for example, (1) changes in the economic or credit environment in the Untied States and abroad; (2) competitive conditions and pricing levels; (3) legislative and regulatory developments; (4) changes in tax laws; and (5) other risks and uncertainties not now identified. Accordingly, actual outcomes and results already or eventually may differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION (Registrant) /s/ Dezora M. Martin Name: Dezora M. Martin Title: Corporate Secretary Date: February 27, 2003 EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number System Description 99 Presentations given by L.I. Prillaman; S.C. Tobias; J.A. Hixon; J.W. Fox, Jr.; K.B. McQuade and R.E. Martinez; J.P. Rathbone; D.W. Seale; D.H. Butler and F.M. Ehlers; T.L. Ingram; M.D. Manion; M.R. McClellan; W.J. Romig; F.B. Wimbush; and M.R. Stewart.

Vice Chairman and Chief Marketing Officer Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
L. I. Prillaman

Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
Stephen C. Tobias
Thank you and good morning, and again, welcome to Brosnan Forest. I encourage you to take advantage of the many outdoors activities we have to offer.
As some of you have commented, Brosnan Forest is indeed a unique facility. Founded here some 47 years ago on fallow-forested swampland, Brosnan Forest has been and continues to be a key element in management teambuilding that has made Norfolk Southern organizationally strong like few others. A railroad management icon, Bill Brosnan, as you know, was a legendary business innovator. In addition to his many process and equipment improvements, Bill Brosnan recognized that a cohesive, focused, and united group of employees was central to the success of the company. He started "The Forest" as a place to mingle, first with customers, then with employees, on a personal basis to discuss each other's concerns, solutions and ideas, both big and small. Many of the improvements, cost savings ideas, and strategic initiatives were inspired in meetings right here. We continue that tradition with great success. Department, cross departmental, and customer conference sessions are conducted continuously and rea p an abundant harvest. The friendly and receptive employees you have met while here are no different with any other group that meets at Brosnan Forest, and are indicative of open dialogue employees enjoy throughout our company.
Operationally, 2002 was our year of convergence. Systems that were many years in the making were fully operational in 2002. Train schedules are now routinely and dynamically adjusted to fit changing customer needs and the changing economic environment. And we can now proactively evaluate infrastructure, facilities and other cost areas for improvement and rationalization. Before looking at some examples let me first bring you up to date on safety.
The rail industry has come a long way in improving safety. Once not known for safety, you can now see that the rail industry ranks as one of the most safety conscious industries. Because of our history, early railroad entrepreneurs, the Harriman family, developed a safety recognition award system that acted as the catalyst to independent and industry joint safety programs that continue to progress the safe work environment. For example
For 2002, NS achieved an 11% reduction in reportable injuries and total injuries, year over year. This resulted in an industry-leading ratio of 1.2 injuries per 200,000 man-hours, which positions us for a fourteenth consecutive Harriman gold medal award. The official results will not be announced until May.
This slide shows that injuries on the NS system continue their decline as we work for a 100 percent safe environment. For 2003 we have begun anew our efforts for zero injuries and accidents.
Now, let's take a look at our standard measures. I'll ask you to pay particular attention to the blue lines on the first three slides, as they indicate 2002's performance.
System average train speed improved year over year.
Cars on-line have achieved a state of equilibrium due to the improved operating systems (TYES, TOP and TLS) and continue to decline.
And, as shown here, the same is true for system average terminal dwell time.
Looking at year over year comparisons, we see continued improvements in all categories. Cars on line improved 6.6% for an annual average of 185,745. Train speed and terminal dwell showed 4.8% and 5.7% improvements respectively.
As you can see in this year over year comparison, we've been successful in the press for consistent improvements.
merchandise trains, 18 points,
net revenue improved 1.6%,
6.3% fewer employees,
6.6% fewer cars on line,
equipment rents expense reduced by 14.4%
a 4.8% improvement in average train speed,
a 5.7% improvement in average terminal dwell time
and crew productivity, 2.6%
In summary, we continue to work to improve every key measure, and we're ready to respond to the economy. From an operating perspective '02 has been a good year, however, as you can see, there is more up to go and that is our focus. Our focus remains on consistency and reliability, which of course are critical for us and our customers.
As you can see from the agenda, Mark Manion, Tony Ingram, Debbie Butler and Fred Ehlers will speak to some of the detail about Customer Service and the Thoroughbred Operating Plan, how it is working in practical application, and where we are taking it.
Thank you.

Senior Vice President Administration Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
James A. Hixon
Good morning. There are two items I would like to cover this morning as part of the labor update. The first is a recent decision involving the operation of remote control units, and the second is an update of the current round of labor negotiations.
As you may recall, in September of 2001, we entered into a Letter of Intent with the United Transportation Union to have UTU-represented employees operate the remote control devices for locomotives in terminal operations. In May of 2002, we reached a definitive agreement with the UTU for implementation of remote control devices in and around terminals. The Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers did not agree with the designation of the UTU-represented employees as the operators and sought to have the work assigned to locomotive engineers. The BLE took the position that the assignment of remote control devices to the UTU infringed upon the work that had been exclusively reserved to engineers by agreement or practice. The industry ultimately ended up in a single arbitration with both the BLE and the UTU. Earlier last month, the arbitrator issued his decision on the operation of remote control devices in favor of the position of UTU and the railroads. After reviewing the facts and the briefs submitted in the case, the arbitrator found that no national or local agreement reserved the operation of remote control devices to the engineer craft. The arbitrator accepted our argument that the operation of remote control units replicates the level of control that UTU-represented employees already exercise over engine movements in and around terminals. According to the arbitrator, the CPU, or computer, on the engine performs the functions formerly performed by the engineer, not the ground service person operating the remote control unit.
To date, we have implemented remote control operations at 34 terminals, for a total of 54 devices in operation. If we operate the remote control devices, three shifts, seven days a week, four to five employees per remote control unit, are furloughed. The BLE is understandably upset that the operation of remote control devices is performed by UTU-represented workers and with the elimination of engineer positions where remote control units are in use. However, by operation of the labor agreements, the person who ultimately loses his job is the most junior ground service employee. This is because the agreements with the BLE allow them to bump down and take UTU assignments from junior people. However, with our hiring needs, we do not expect any substantial labor protective benefits to be triggered by remote control.
I also should mention that the BLE is currently in discussions with the Teamsters for a merger of the two unions. The operation of remote control devices by UTU-represented employees has become a thorn in the BLE's side and is helping the BLE leadership to push for a merger with the Teamsters. At the same time, we have BLE- and UTU-represented train crews visiting our customers and trying to improve customer service and enhance our sales. Therefore, the selection of terminals and the timing of implementation of remote controls must be considered carefully in view of these other issues.
The second area I wanted to cover today is the status of our labor negotiations with our many unions. As you may know, negotiations in the railroad industry are governed by the Railway Labor Act. Under the Act, contracts do not expire, instead we include moratoriums within our agreements that provide no changes will be sought for a period of time. The moratoriums on the last contracts expired in November of 1999, and each side filed the required notices to change the contracts. While the Railway Labor Act has specific notice requirements and deadlines that I will not go over, I would like to summarize the general process under the Act. After the notices, referred to as "Section 6 notices," are filed, the parties meet to try and resolve their differences through negotiations. There is no time limit on the negotiations; however, at any time one of the parties can break off negotiations. Then the parties have 10 days to seek mediation with the National Mediation Board (NMB), which consists of three m embers appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. There are no time limits on mediation and if the NMB at any time decides it is unable to mediate a settlement, it will encourage binding arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either side, the status quo is maintained for 30 days. During the 30-day period, the NMB may (but is not required to) decide that the dispute threatens to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree that will deprive any section of the country of essential transportation service and ask the President to appoint a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB). If the President decides against a PEB, the parties may use self-help, which could be a strike by the union or the implementation of the proposals by the carrier. If a PEB is appointed, it has 30 days to make its recommendation to resolve the dispute. If the recommendations of the PEB are rejected by either party, the parties are free to exercise self-help after 30 days or Congress may choose to legislate the settlement.
We have been in the current round of national negotiations for a little over three years. As you may recall in January 2000, we reached agreement on NS with the BLE for wages. Health and welfare remained with the national negotiations. The wage agreement provided for the continuation of the bonus arrangement where BLE-represented employees participated in our bonus program in lieu of general wage increases through 2004.
As you may recall, in 1996, we reached the first agreement with the BLE on the bonus arrangement. We renewed the arrangement in 2000 with a "snap-back" in wages in 2000. Under the "snap-back," the wages for NS BLE-represented employees were brought up to the national wage rate for BLE-represented employees at the other Class I railroads.
In March 2001, we reached agreement nationally with the Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employes, the BMWE, providing for wage adjustments that were principally COLA-based, and health and welfare changes that provided for employee contributions principally made in the form of reductions in the COLA increases.
The negotiations with the BMWE followed the 2000 presidential election. The BMWE did not want to go before a Bush Presidential Emergency Board. In addition, when given the choice of set wage increases or COLA-based wage adjustments, they selected COLA-based wage adjustments to make sure their members kept up with inflation. They also were concerned with the impact of health and welfare changes that could be retroactive so they insisted on making changes to health and welfare as part of the overall agreement.
The BMWE agreement provided a 3.5% general wage increase effective 1/1/01. This 3.5% increase is the same 3.5% increase that the TCU and shopcraft unions received in the previous round that BMWE did not receive. COLA increases were agreed to that would be effective 7/1/01, 7/1/02, 7/1/03 and 7/1/04. However, as part of the overall agreement, BMWE had their COLA increases reduced by offsets for health and welfare increases.
In May 2002, we reached agreement with the UTU for wages and remote control operations. Health and welfare issues are to be resolved through additional negotiations and/or binding arbitration.
As you may recall, the May 2002 was the second tentative agreement with the UTU. The first tentative agreement was reached in July of 2000, and it provided for four general wage increases, nothing for 2000, 2.5% on 7/1/01; 3% on 7/1/02; 2.5% on 7/1/03; and 3% on 7/1/04. It had a standby on health and welfare. A standby means that the unions have agreed that their health and welfare provisions will be governed by the health and welfare provisions in other contracts. The first tentative agreement also contained trip rates, where we changed the basic pay system so that UTU employees will be paid based on a trip rate as opposed to a basic day with additional arbitraries. These arbitraries, to the extent they're in existence at the time we determine the trip rate, will be rolled into the trip rates. The new pay system will be a simpler pay system that will result in few pay claims and increased efficiency in operation. In addition, we believe that the new pay system will provide for enhanced productivit y in our operations. The agreement also provided for a $1,200 lump sum for employees hired prior to November 1985 and the elimination and reintroduction of entry rates.
Pursuant to the UTU Constitution, we worked with the UTU on joint questions and answers related to the tentative agreement. During this process, it became apparent that the parties had an important conflict over the terms regarding the elimination of entry rates. The parties kept meeting and talking and in the meantime much changed. First, health and welfare costs were skyrocketing to the point where health and welfare became increasingly critical for this round of negotiations. Second, the carriers, under severe pressure to find ways to contain costs, decided that further delay in the implementation of remote control could not be tolerated, and finally, the economy (especially after September 11th) took a turn for the worse.
The carriers continued the discussions with the UTU, and as a result of those discussions, we reached a second tentative agreement in May 2002. That agreement has since been ratified and is now in effect. The second tentative agreement modified the wage increases since a period of time had passed, and we did not want to make retroactive wage increases. So we changed the pattern to provide 4% on 7/1/02; 2.5% on 7/1/03; and 3% on 7/1/04. The new wage pattern has the same economic value as the wages in the first tentative agreement. As in the first tentative agreement, this agreement provided for trip rates, a $1,200 lump sum payment for pre-'85 employees, and the elimination and reintroduction of entry rates.
The parties also reconstituted the original deal so as to change the health and welfare standby to a process of further negotiation, culminating in binding arbitration. We consider this to be an improvement over the standby agreement.
Most important of all, the second tentative agreement provided for the implementation of remote control operation.
In November 2002, we reached agreement with the International Brotherhood of Boilermaker-Blacksmiths, the IBB, on wages, with a standby on health and welfare. The wage pattern follows the UTU agreement with 4% on 7/1/02; 2.5% on 7/1/03, and 3% on 7/1/04. All members of the IBB received a lump sum payment of $600.
In January 2003, we reached a tentative agreement on NS with the American Train Dispatchers Department of the BLE for wages through 2004 that is based on the UTU wage settlement and bonus participation in lieu of wages from 2005 through 2009, with a standby on health and welfare.
Last month, we held a hearing for binding arbitration with the Transportation Communications Union involving both clerks and carmen. On January 23rd, the arbitrator issued his decision resolving both wages and employee contributions for health and welfare. The unions had previously agreed to certain plan design changes that would produce additional savings for the industry.
The Arbitrator rolled in the Harris COLA of 27 cents effective 10/1/01. He terminated the Harris COLAs effective 6/30/02 and at the same time imposed a 2.5% general wage increase. (The two are approximately equal in value.) He also provided increases of 3.5% on 7/1/02; 3% on 7/1/03; and 3.25% on 7/1/04. He also required health and welfare contributions beginning 7/1/01 of $33.39 per month and increasing each year thereafter.
This is a somewhat busy slide which shows the wage increases for the BMWE, UTU, and TCU. As you will notice with most of the numbers on this slide, the early years tend to be small increases, which is when they are entitled to what we refer to as Harris COLAs, which are basically a half of a cost of living increase. For these three unions, we have resolved wages going forward, and as you can see, the increases in 2002, 2003, and 2004 tend to be larger.
When you take the numerous increases shown on the previous slide and compute a total rate increase for the 2000-2004 period, you can see for the BMWE it's 11.56 percent, for the UTU 12.4 percent, and for the TCU 14.41 percent. Now as you've noticed from the previous slide, some of these increases tend to be back end loaded. When you compute the annual equivalent general wage increase for the BMWE it's 2.01 percent, for the UTU it's 2.06 percent, and for the TCU it's 1.86 percent. I should also point out that the BMWE wages incorporate the current rate of inflation, which is the basis of their increase. The original projections back in 2001 had a total rate increase of 14.97 percent, with the annual equivalent general wage increase at 2.37 percent. As you can see, we have benefited greatly from the low inflation we have experienced in the last couple of years. The UTU numbers include the lump sum payment of $1,200 made to pre-1985 hires in the fall of 2002, but does not include changes in arbitraries for those hired after October 31, 1985.
While we have been focused on wages in this round of negotiations, a more important issue to us has been the ever-increasing cost of health and welfare benefits. Since 1999, the employer cost of health and welfare benefits has basically doubled. The monthly cost has gone from approximately $400 to a little over $800 per employee. At the same time, the employee contribution has remained negligible. Thus, a big push this round has been trying to negotiate employee contributions for their health and welfare benefits. The BMWE agreed to health and welfare contributions in the form of a reduced increase in their cost of living adjustment. Thus, their cost of living increases were reduced by a portion of the annual increase in health and welfare cost, but not more than 50 percent of the cost of living increase. These numbers reflect the monthly payments. The TCU numbers on the other hand are employee contributions that will be made by the employee on a pre-tax basis. Since these increases are not cappe d by a cost of living increase, you can see that the increases exceed that of the BMWE. The July 1, 2003 increase is actually a decrease because beginning in July 1, 2003 we expect to have begun implementing plan design changes that will save the industry approximately $38.48 per month per employee, in addition to the numbers shown here.
While we were disappointed with the arbitrator's decision on wages, with respect to the TCU, we are pleased that he accepted our arguments on the health and welfare contributions. With the fully implemented plan design changes and the TCU contribution, we will be able to take the employee participation in their health and welfare costs from basically zero to approximately 13 percent of the costs of their benefits. Both the BMWE and the TCU agreements provide that beginning in 2004 and 2005 respectively, the union employees will be responsible for picking up 50 percent of the increase in medical costs experienced by the union plans. This will be capped at 50 percent of the cost of living increase they will be entitled to under the Harris COLA. While the employee participation at 13 percent remains below the participation by nonagreement employees, we believe this is a step in the right direction and will help us bring pressure on the unions to agree to fundamental plan changes that will either decrease our cost or at a minimum reduce the level of increases going forward.

Senior Vice President Coal Marketing Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
Bill Fox

Vice President Marketing Services and International Senior Vice President Financial Planning Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 28, 2003
Robert E. Martinez
Kathryn B. McQuade
Internet-based application.
We used two questionnaires; one for Merchandise and Coal (same survey instrument); and one for Intermodal, which captured additional equipment and terminal issues unique to Intermodal.
The Intermodal version was approximately 75% identical to the Merchandise/Coal questionnaire. Today, we will focus only on those questions which went to all survey participants, so all our customers, Coal, Merchandise and Intermodal will be handled together.
Population -- 973
Response rate -- 48%
Remind you: A survey is a snapshot in time. If done correctly, it is accurate for perceptions at that point in time. It is not a reflection of reality, but a reflection of perceptions of that reality. I know you recognize that perceptions can have broad implications for our business, as they do for our stock price.
We have not conducted a survey since 1995-1996 (ending 1Q96), but we are currently preparing for our Spring 2003 survey. So, this will henceforth, be an annual exercise.
An element of "noise" due to the time lag since 1995.
I mentioned we had a response rate of 48% on the survey, equating to 465 respondents.
Approximately $4 billion of our revenue base was captured in our survey response, including about .60% of the top 200 list. (c. 119 companies out of 200)
Here you see the broad functional areas we covered in the survey.
I'll tell you the bottom-line overall result right now: Norfolk Southern came out looking, at least in my estimation, very strong in perceptions by our customers. I will admit NS came out considerably stronger than what I had anticipated, especially when you consider that we made the final decision to conduct own customer survey just around the time Jim Valentine had come out with his January 2002 survey, which ranked us last among rail carriers.
But, recall the actual timing of our survey, which was late April to mid-May. Mr. Valentine's own May assessment similarly attested that the perceptions of NS had changed considerably between January and May 2002.
We allowed respondents to remain anonymous if they so chose, and we were able to do this as we used an outside, third-party provider for administrative support. Just over 40% of our customers requested that their responses remain anonymous.
I will not today differentiate among those customers who requested anonymity versus those who provided their names. Suffice it to say that customers who wished to remain anonymous were marginally more critical and less favorably disposed toward NS than those who provided their names. We will continue to allow for confidential responses in future surveys.
This slide fills in the overall results we had for each of the major functional headings I just listed.
For each individual functional element on this list, there were a series of questions which served to probe into specifics.
To illustrate what I mean, for example, in reviewing Sales and Marketing, we asked questions relating to understanding customer needs, responsiveness on pricing, responsiveness to new business opportunities, and so forth.
Looking at this table, in the general area of Sales & Marketing, I doubt anyone is surprised to see that among these factors, our customers are least happy about price.
We also ran tests for statistical significance, which in the Sales & Marketing arena that showed that all the more specific variables met the test for statistical significance in determining overall satisfaction for this area. However, understanding the customer's needs and responsiveness to business issues and opportunities had the greatest impact on the overall satisfaction level in Marketing.
Curiously, competitive pricing, while a statistically-significant variable--and I don't wish to understate it--nonetheless was the weakest in its correlation with overall satisfaction on Sales and Marketing. I will return to this in just a moment, given that our survey results appear to indicate a demarcation between price and value.
Here you see listed the variables we probed regarding overall satisfaction with Norfolk Southern.
Again, I think we do fairly well, although it is clear we have significant opportunity for improvement, not just among those dissatisfied, but also among the larger group which takes an intermediate position. Certainly, folks who assume an intermediate posture are not wedded to NS as customers and this represents a challenge and an opportunity for us.
In running the tests for statistical significance on this group of variables, we can see that although that NS received very high marks for the professionalism, knowledge and courtesy of our personnel, there was no correlation between this factor and the perception of overall performance.
Value for the dollar, commitment to customer service, ease of doing business and ease of reaching the right person did demonstrate a statistically significant correlation with a customer's overall satisfaction with NS performance. On this chart, elements in red are statistically significant with the overall factor. The tighter the relationship with overall satisfaction in statistical terms, the further to the left I located the variable on this chart.
Regarding value for the dollar, it is interesting that while value for the dollar displayed the strongest correlation with a customer's overall satisfaction with NS performance, competitive pricing had the least impact on a customer's satisfaction with NS Sales and Marketing, which we had seen above. This reinforces the notion that there is a space between value and price which we can continue to work, as long as we stay focused on the performance essential to fulfilling the value equation.
This is a fairly important chart.
When you run the significance tests looking at all the broad functional areas we covered, transportation services, sales and marketing, operations services and support (which is to say, NCSC, CYO and the Coal Business Group among coal customers), and billing all correlate significantly with the overall perception variable. The other three do not.
The first two of these components, transportation services, and sales and marketing are particularly strongly correlated, although, again, all four shown in red correlate with overall satisfaction.
In more careful review of our survey findings, it was clear that perceived performance of NS among our customers was weaker on billing issues and on damage prevention and freight claims, with billing emerging as the weaker of these two. It also appears that performance on billing correlates at a statistically significant level with overall satisfaction. So, getting billing right is very important.
Separately, note that in the survey, we allowed for open-ended responses and also included a question asking our customers, "What aspect of doing business with NS irritates you the most?" I might add, including that question was Mr. Goode's idea!
Well, customers took the opportunity to unload, and in open ended input, we receive what might be described as a barrage of commentary specifically on demurrage.
So, in turning now to our progress on NS21, Kathryn would like to speak a bit longer on billing and demurrage issues because Top Management decided these areas, in particular, required more focus given our survey results.
Kathryn, could you pick up here?
We dedicated some of our brightest employees to this effort full time. With the help of outside consultants, a roadmap was created to allow Norfolk Southern to achieve its financial goals. Today NS 21 initiatives are handled by cross functional teams formed by employees who work closest to the process.
Initiatives are designed to have quick hits to the bottom line - less than 18 months in duration.
Our focus is on changing our processes to be more efficient, improving communication and coordination, and eliminating redundant work and overcapacity in our system. Some benefits are one time cash savings, others are recurring expense reductions. Implementation costs primarily included technology development and labor protection or severance. Dollar benefit to dollar cost of this program has been 10 to 1.
Over the last two years, we have realized $110 million of benefits including $45 million in recurring cost savings. These benefits are net of implementation costs.
We prioritized the areas that contained large cost drivers - functions that were labor intensive and/or required annual cash infusions of maintenance and capital expenditures. We also included areas that touch our customers, and as Rob just pointed out - areas that irritate our customers.
Rather than going through each of the areas that some of you have already heard about, I thought I would select a few areas and go into more detail.
Strategic Sourcing is the use of strategic relationships for sourcing purchasing decisions on large expenditures. We are able to improve the amount spent on ballast, intermodal services, office expenditures, locomotive materials, telecomm/cell phones, and employee travel. Benefits achieved were $6.6 million in 2002. The slide lists some of the many areas under review and the anticipated savings for 2003. This has become so successful, that we have established an internal strategic sourcing department. Jim Hixon who is here with us heads that department.
CFIT focused on improving the quality and accuracy of our day to day transactions with customers. Correct instructions and movement reporting are the keys to accurate billing to our customers. We have improved our billing accuracy to 96%, up from 90% and improved our days outstanding.
We rolled out an internet application for our small and medium sized customers. Combined with increased use of traditional EDI, we are now receiving 79% of customer shipping instructions (waybills) electronically. This eliminates manual keying and has been proven to drastically reduce errors in shipping and billing. These systems have allowed us to reduce labor costs at our Atlanta Operations Center by $830,000/ year.
Equipment Quality
Car quality is important to our customers. In 2002, we established a specific position under our customer service group that works 100% of the time on car quality. We also have a freight car quality team that this past year produced the railcar quality assurance brochure and we produced two boxcar quality videos which instruct the customer on proper loading and unloading procedures. We have started tracking freight equipment rejected by the customer and are looking for reduced car damage and cleaning costs.
Demurrage
As you can see from our customer survey, demurrage has been a problem for our customers. With improved customer service and better information systems, we believe we can manage the process more efficiently. The team is working on data issues that cause customer disputes and corrections. Their goal is less than 3% correction of demurrage bills (currently 18% are corrected). The new system will reduce manual rework and allow our customers to view their demurrage accounts on-line as well as manage their freight car needs.
We are also looking at our non-rail real estate assets. We have outsourced the administration of pipe and wire leases. The vendor has increased the annual income. Additionally, we implemented an internal effort that has successfully renegotiated certain easements for additional income.
In 2003, we have begun a dedicated effort to review over 8,000 leases to ensure that we receive fair market value for our leased property and that regular adjustments are maintained.
Finally, we are consolidating our field operations where possible, saving maintenance expense and freeing the buildings for sale or lease.
The NS21 program provides continuous benefits each quarter that help us achieve our bottom line.
Using this structure, we will be targeting our most aggressive goals ever. This will take the commitment of all our employees working together for this goal.
These are the areas we intend to focus:
The track Structure and Density Team is matching our new network under TOP to our existing track infrastructure and charged with lowering maintenance costs.
Even though we have made great strides in lowering our labor costs over the last three years, we believe that we can still make marked improvements in employee productivity. We are looking for improvements both in agreement and non-agreement forces.
We will continue our relentless efforts to reduce equipment costs focusing on trailers, containers, locomotives, and freight cars.
The yard effort coordinated through the TOP team is to re-structure our yard capacity to match our changing traffic patterns and provide us flexibility in the future.
The Top Line will not be left out of this effort, with focus not just on freight movement; but looking at innovative ways to provide value added services to our customers - growing our relationship and our business with them.

Senior Vice President and Controller Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 28, 2003
John P. Rathbone
It has been several years since we have talked about Conrail accounting with this group. So this morning, I am going to revisit this subject. I am also going to share with you information about a new financial accounting standard that will be impacting railroads in the first quarter.
We get a lot of questions from the buy side analyst about our accounting for Conrail. Hopefully, this refresher course will help you answer your clients' questions. Let's get started.
There are several important points that everybody should walk away with this morning.
First, the structure of the Conrail transaction is heavily influenced by taxes. Obviously, we do not want to pay any taxes that we are not legally required to pay.
Second, under our purchase accounting treatment, the purchase price in excess of book value was fully allocated to tangible assets. Since the appraisal of Conrail assets exceeded the purchase price of Conrail stock plus liabilities, the entire purchase price was allocated to tangible assets. Therefore, there is no goodwill.
Third, while the structure is somewhat complicated, there is a logic to the accounting that has been performed. The accounting treatment follows the structure of the deal.
Finally, it should give you some comfort that both NS and CSX account for our investment in Conrail identically.
The transaction structure of Conrail is easily understood if you look at a map. When we (NS and CSX jointly) bought Conrail we divided up the system to three parts: routes that went to CSX, routes that went to NS, and the Shared Asset Areas. The key here is that NS and CSX bought the stock of Conrail not the assets. Conrail still owns these routes, and simply leases them to the owner roads.
The Shared Asset Areas are still operated by CR employees for the exclusive use of NS and CSX.
This slide shows the corporate structure of Conrail after June 1, 1999. NS and CSX continue to own their respective interest in Conrail. On June 1, 1999, Conrail's customers and employees became Norfolk Southern's and CSX's customers and employees. Conrail assets were dropped down to two wholly-owned subsidiaries of Conrail, shown here as PRR and NYC. Under this structure, NS and CSX entered into operating agreements with PRR and NYC to operate formal Conrail routes. At the same time, Conrail leased their locomotives, railcars and other equipment to NS and CSX. So for these properties NS railway has exclusive use of the PRR assets and CSXT has exclusive use of the NYC assets.
In addition to the agreement with PRR and NYC, NS and CSX have joint access to the Shared Assets Areas. We both pay fees to Conrail for the use of the Shared Assets Area, and for the switching and handling services Conrail employees provide. Using operating and lease agreements, a substantial portion of Conrail's assets were allocated to NS and CSX for our use, but the ownership of Conrail assets remains at Conrail.
It is important to note that the structure is, in essence, a closed system. Payments to Conrail, less expenses, come back to NS and CSX through equity accounting. Three types of cost are paid to Conrail. 1) Payments for operating over Conrail's track, 2) Equipment rentals, and 3) Shared Asset service fees.
In accounting for our joint acquisition of Conrail, we and CSX had to apply purchase accounting. This requires the buyers to revalue the acquired company's balance sheet to reflect the purchase price. Assets and liabilities are stated at their fair market value. If the purchase price exceeds the fair value of the assets and liabilities, goodwill is created. However, in our case the fair value of the assets exceeded the purchase price and no goodwill was generated.
At Control Date, our investment totaled $6.1 billion, whereas Conrail's book value was $3.5 billion. NS' 58% of that book value equals $2 billion. Thus, the purchase price exceeded book value by $4.1 billion. As you can see on this slide, nearly all of the additional value related to the acquired property.
After valuing the entire balance sheet, the $4.1 billion difference was fully allocated to tangible assets and their related deferred taxes. Consequently, there is no goodwill.
Now, let me explain the $6.7 billion property write-up.
The appraisal found additional value in two major accounts. Land and road. The fair market value of land was determined to be $2.3 billion more than book value. The fair market value of road was determined to be $4.1 billion more than book value.
Equipment accounts had a $700 million basis, and increased about $300 million.
Every quarter, we are amortizing this difference over the useful lives of the assets. This amortization does not show up as an increase in NS rail depreciation, but is included in the Conrail Rents and Services expense line. This is explained by our use of the equity method of accounting for the investment in Conrail.
The Equity method of accounting must be used for investments where the owner can significantly influence, but not control the investee. Typically, this is used where the owner has between 20% and 50% voting control. As you are aware, NS has a 58% economic interest, but only a 50% voting interest in Conrail. Thus, under the equity method, we record our proportionate share of Conrail's income. Equity accounting is sometimes called "one-line" consolidation. That is because net income is the same whether you consolidate a subsidiary or if you use equity accounting. The difference lies in the level of detail reported in the financial statements.
In our income statement the "one-line" consolidation is in "Conrail Rents and Services," and is comprised of several components. This expense line captures the essence of the relationship with Conrail. We pay rent and get service from them, and since we derive profit from our ownership, we net that profit against the costs.
The first component is payments to Conrail. These include fair market payments for the right to operate over PRR routes and in the Shared Assets Areas. Cash is also paid for leasing Conrail equipment. In addition, there are payments to Conrail for the services it renders in the Shared Assets Areas. The total of these payments to Conrail was $466 million in 2002.
In addition to the direct payments to Conrail, the Conrail Rents and Services line includes the equity in the earnings of Conrail. For 2002 this totaled $106 million, which was 58% of Conrail's earnings for that year.
And finally, consistent with the treatment of the equity pickup, we record the additional amortization related to the fair value write-up in our operating expenses as part of Conrail Rents and Services. For 2002 this totaled $52 million, after tax.
The combination of these costs results in a total, which captures all expenses, associated with the right to operate Conrail in one line. For 2002, this totaled $412 million. Of course, interest expense associated with financing our cost to acquire Conrail remains in the non-operating section of the income statement.
There is one small anomaly this accounting treatment does produce and that is in the income tax provision. Since equity earnings and amortization are net of taxes, this causes the effective tax rate to be lower than normal. To see the impact this has on the effective rate just refer to the income tax footnote in our annual report. That note is a good reference point for adjusting tax rates in your models.
Norfolk Southern and CSX pay for Conrail Rents and Services on a monthly basis. This is Conrail's largest source of operating cash. In addition, Conrail also receives cash from interest income and some rental income.
Conrail uses the cash for its operating expenses; interest on debt and debt repayments; and capital expenditures. Because the routes and equipment fees exceed Conrail's cash needs, this additional cash is available to NS and CSX. Norfolk Southern borrows excess cash from PRR. CSX borrows from NYC. Our borrowing appears as a long-term liability called "Due to Conrail" and was $513 million as of the end of the year.
Now that you have gotten used to our accounting for Conrail, we have plans to change it. If we receive a favorable ruling from the IRS that allows a tax-free spin-off of the PRR and NYC our accounting will become much more conventional. We will simply consolidate PRR and we will be rid of this additional complexity.
A spin-off would change the geography of the items we report, but it would not change net income or the balance sheet. Our properties and liabilities would increase, reflecting the consolidation of PRR's assets and liabilities. Of course, there would be a corresponding reduction to Investment in Conrail. The remaining Investment in Conrail would represent our 58% interest in the Shared Assets Areas.
The income statement would show depreciation on the PRR properties, deferred taxes and a greatly reduced Conrail Rents and Services.
Now let me turn to a new financial accounting standard that has an unexpected impact on railroads. FAS 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, was effective January 1, 2003. This statement addresses the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. It requires recognition of a liability for these obligations, with the associated costs capitalized with the related asset. The liability is recorded at fair value and accretes with the passage of time to its future value.
This statement started when a question arose in the utility industry about the accrual of decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants. We analyzed this statement and concluded that we have no legal obligation related to our assets, especially track structure, which includes rail, ties and ballast. It is our understanding that the rest of the rail industry have reached the same conclusion.
However, there is a conflict between FAS 143 and industry practice. Current industry practice follows the Uniform System of Accounts for Railroad Companies, as prescribed by the STB. The USOA calls for track structure to be depreciated to its net salvage value. To arrive at net salvage, it is industry practice to accrue for the cost-to-remove track structure. When a new tie, for instance, is installed we begin accruing a cost-to-remove. When we remove the tie at the end of its useful life we charge the labor cost against the accrual. Under STB accounting rules this accrual for cost-to-removal is recorded as depreciation expense and as an increase in accumulated depreciation.
We depreciate assets to their net salvage amount. Net salvage being defined as salvage minus cost to remove. Therefore, if an asset costs more to remove than you get in proceeds, you have "negative salvage". For example, ties have very little value and by themselves do not cover the cost to remove them. Thus for this component, net salvage might be negative.
In such cases, our depreciation rates take this negative salvage into account.
It recently came to the industry's attention that the SEC Staff raised the issue of negative salvage with a public utility. We understand that the power company was using a negative salvage assumption in depreciating telephone poles; their cost to remove the poles was in excess of any salvage. The SEC staff indicated that they believe that FAS 143 would prohibit accruing depreciation in excess of an asset's basis, which is what would happen with a negative salvage assumption. The SEC staff concluded that unless the cost to remove meets the criteria of a legal liability under FAS 143, it should be expensed when incurred at the time the asset is retired.
We are reviewing the depreciation rates for our track accounts to determine the extent of negative salvage we have accrued. Because of FAS 143, any such amounts in accumulated depreciation will be removed. The cumulative effect of this catch-up adjustment will be recorded as a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2003. This will be a credit to income.
Going forward, this change will result in lower depreciation expense because the depreciation rate will no longer reflect any negative salvage. Compensation and benefits will increase for the labor it costs to remove retired assets. We do not expect that the net of these two items will result in a material change to our total railway operating expenses.
If you look at all the railroads' 10-Ks, each one has mentioned that FAS 143 will affect their financial statements in the first quarter. We are not ready to give you numbers yet about the size of the cumulative effect credit because we have not completed our study. However, let's make clear this is a non-cash item. And on a go-forward basis, we think it will have little impact on earnings. It will simply be a change in geography on the income statement.

Senior Vice President Merchandise Marketing Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
Donald W. Seale
Good morning, it's good to have you at Brosnan Forest again. In my remarks today, I will recap our 2002 Merchandise results and make some brief comments on the outlook and our focus in each of the five Merchandise Business Groups this year.
Our Merchandise business is fairly balanced, with automotive and chemicals representing the largest two groups at 15% and 12%, respectively.
In 2002 these five groups generated 58% ($3,648 Billion) of the Company's revenue and 41% (2,757 million carloads) of the total loads.
In 2002, all five business groups saw favorable increases in year-over-year revenue with the exception of paper as our TOP service initiative, combined with focused yield and marketing efforts, generated a 3% increase in revenue (+$122 million) from a 2% gain in car loadings (+41,000).
Equipment utilization improved across the board. Car-days per load improved by 7% driven by reduced dwell time at terminals, reduced handling per car, and higher velocity through the network.
Revenue per car-day improved by 17% while revenue per Merchandise crew start increased by 4% reflecting improved pricing and the benefits of our TOP service initiative.
As you can see here, car-days per load, a key indicator of utilization, improved substantially in all groups with the highest level of improvement in automotive, agriculture, and paper and forest products. This positive trend benefits both customers and Norfolk Southern as it represents improved cycle times for equipment and greater availability of equipment for customer loading.
Concurrently, significant improvement in revenue per car-day was realized across all groups. This is a good indicator of our progress in improved yield as well as increased velocity and equipment utilization.
We also focused on enhanced billing, customer facing and back office activity in 2002. This effort improved our billing accuracy to 96%, up 3% annually in 2001. Also, EDI bills of lading increased by 4% to 78% and internet bill of ladings increased to 20% of the total.
These favorable trends reduced billing disputes with our customers, and in turn, improved days sales outstanding by 10% and accounts receivables over 30 days by 30%.
Merchandise carloadings in 2002 improved primarily in the second half of the year, resulting in a 2% increase for the full year. Automotive and steel carloadings drove this increase.
While we are pleased with this modest rebound, our volume fell short of year 2000 carloadings by 6% overall or some 160,000 carloads. Obviously we have the capacity to handle these larger volumes and we look forward to an improving manufacturing sector and and higher levels of truck conversions this year.
Revenue increased by 3% for all groups, with the exception of Paper, showing gains over 2000 and 2001.
We are pleased with the continued progress in yield improvement, particularly as the value of our service has improved under the TOP initiative.
Improved revenue per car for all groups of 2% in 2002 and 7% over 2001 underscores the improving price-to-service value trend. We see this continuing in 2003 as we add greater value to service consistency by rolling out the technology that Mark, Tony and Debbie will discuss this morning.
The combined benefits of improved on-time service, better equipment utilization and availability, and more effective customer interface, all helped drive a much improved product to sell. Our customers responded by diverting $32.8 million from the highways last year, and we see that trend continuing and escalating as our service product improves further and motor carriers face a tougher cost environment this year. Across all the groups, we identified over $184 million in potential new business in 2002, and captured $67 million on an annualized basis. The remaining $117 million is being pursued as part of our business development plans in 2003.
We have the opportunity to continue improving yield in 2003. Approximately $996 million of contracted Merchandise revenue and $664 million in quote and tariff based business will be renegotiated this year. This is 45% of total 2002 merchandise revenues. Most of the remaining contracts and quotes are subject to formulated and fixed increases in 2003.
Turning to our specific business groups, in 2002 our automotive revenues set a new high of $961 million, an increase of 9% over 2001 and 4% higher than 2000 when auto sales were 3% higher and record production was 5% better than 2002.
Considering all modes at NS, automotive revenues reached $1.1 billion last year as Triple Crown added $94 million and Intermodal $17 million to our automotive franchise.
Over the past year, we maintained our position of having the largest automotive franchise in North America with 26% of total volume.
Serving 34 assembly plants, 78 major auto parts suppliers and the four Ford Mixing Centers provides Norfolk Southern with a great automotive franchise. We have a lot of room for further growth with this extensive market coverage.
Looking at the automotive market as a whole, in 1991 the International component of North American light vehicle production stood at just 8%. Here you can see just how dramatically this is changing. In 2002, 25% of production was from new international based plants in North America. AutoCast, an industry publication, projects international based plants will provide nearly a third of total production by 2005. New plants built by Toyota, Mitsubishi, BMW, Mercedes and Honda, which are served by NS, are playing a key role in driving these numbers and higher automotive revenues for our Company.
Approximately two-thirds of our automotive business in 2002 was comprised of finished vehicles and the balance consisted of auto parts moving to assembly plants.
We experienced strong growth in both vehicles and automotive parts as vehicle revenue grew by $46 million, or 8%, and auto parts posted a $30 million, or 11% improvement, over 2001.
Overall sales for the U. S. big four producers, namely Ford, GM, Daimler Chrysler and Toyota were down 3% in 2002. NS volume with these accounts, however, rose 8% and revenues improved by 10%. This growth was achieved through highway diversions, plant expansions, continued redesign of the Ford Mixing Center network, and new automotive services.
North American production is slated to be flat in 2003, and we face further challenges of retooling at Ford's Norfolk and Kansas City plants and their production cutbacks in the first quarter. However, new projects and expansions across our network will offset these short term disruptions as the year progresses. Projected increased vehicle business with Toyota, Mitsubishi and Honda, along with higher revenues from auto parts will drive further growth in 2003.
Before I turn to our other four industrial groups, I will briefly recap our supply chain initiatives that are having a positive impact on all five Merchandise groups, as well as our Intermodal business.
As you know, we launched Modalgistics in early 2001. Most of our existing customers and many new ones are increasingly pursuing logistics solutions to optimize total costs in the supply chain. Through Modalgistics, we are providing the analytical tools and personnel to conduct such supply chain optimization studies and to ensure that rail solutions are included in the modal selection process.
In doing so, Modalgistics objectively provides total cost solutions that utilize all modes, such as carload, Intermodal, Triple Crown, TDIS truck brokerage, and a range of warehouse and distribution combinations. This approach levers our core transportation service and customer relationships while tapping new revenue sources from value added services. These include consulting fees, as well as growing the NS transload and distribution services business.
Finally, we are levering Modalgistics internally to drive a greater supply chain perspective throughout the sales and marketing organizations, and the Company as a whole. In essence, this is repositioning our services in the marketplace.
Using the tools I just discussed, we secured over 9,000 carloads and $14 million in new revenue through the Modalgistics unit last year.
New service products include ModalManager, a suite of shipment management tools that provide complete shipment visibility across all modes down to the individual SKU.
Thoroughbred Extra is a new dock-to-dock carload service for paper that provides seamless modal integration and inventory management.
Finally, our Modalgistics unit is concentrating on expanding our distribution and transload services business.
Eight new terminals have been added since 2000. We now have 28 high quality bulk terminals that handle plastics, corn syrup, and other commodities across the system.
Revenue from these terminals was up 15% in 2002 and up 62% since 2000 with over half of the gains coming from truck to rail conversion.
$456 million, or 14%, of our total Merchandise revenues in 2002 involved Multimodal services such as warehouses, bulk terminals, lumber and paper distribution centers, and our SteelNet facilities. Modalgistics enhances these markets by offering full supply chain support to each segment. This support includes single billing for all modes, complete shipment visibility, and the ability to model all modes involved to generate the lowest total costs. Our overall multimodal business is growing at an annual rate of 4% and we see increasing demand for this service as we continue to improve our transportation service and overall ease of doing business.
Now moving to our other four industrial groups, paper and forest products was the only group without a year-over-year revenue increase.
Paper revenue was down 1% in 2002 and 4% below 2000. However, truck conversion of $6.5 million was encouraging. Also, favorable second half and fourth quarter results did indicate that we may be nearing the bottom of the current paper production cycle.
Since 1998, 9.5 million tons of paper production capacity has been removed in North America. Mills served by NS represent about half of that decline.
In addition to these capacity reductions, six million tons of domestic production have shifted to imported sources since 1998.
Finally, the business has consolidated to the point that the top three producers in 2000 represented nearly two-thirds of total domestic paper sales compared to only 36% in 1975. This concentration of production and sales is resulting in shifting distribution patterns which are both a challenge and an opportunity.
Looking ahead to this year, forecasts call for 3% growth in paper production and a 3% contraction in lumber.
We see further opportunities for truck to rail conversion this year as we lever our supply chain services provided by Modalgistics and build on our new Thoroughbred Extra service for paper. This new product links over 50 paper mills on NS to a network of warehouses and paper distribution centers. Single billing, complete inventory visibility and the ability to manage the inventory from production planning to customer delivery holds promise for growth in rail shipments this year.
Finally, we are participating in the formation of a National Box Car Pool for paper products. This pool, which the rail industry will run through an agreement with TTX, will utilize the same tools that are used to distribute and manage the National Multilevel Fleet for finished vehicles. Our objective is to boost the utilization of the paper box car fleet by at least 50% by aggressively reducing empty box car miles over the North American network. This pool will begin operation on March 1 with over 5,000 cars in the fleet.
Revenue for chemicals rose 2% on essentially flat volume in 2002.
Stronger demand for plastics, industrial intermediates, and miscellaneous chemicals helped drive the overall increase.
As with the other Merchandise Groups, highway conversion was a key part of the 2002 revenue increase. Truck conversion comprised $3.7 million in growth or approximately one-quarter of the $16 million gain in 2002.
With the recent spike in crude oil to $35+ per barrel, petroleum based feedstock costs will have a negative impact on the chemical industry in 2003.
While DRI-WEFA projects a 2.5% increase in plastics production in 2003, other domestic chemical production is projected to be flat at best with 2002. Import chemical products are projected to increase by 5% in 2003 after a 9% increase in 2002 . The new Stolt-Nielsen bulk terminal at Braithwaite, Louisiana may hold increased potential for NS participation in this segment of business.
Finally, chemical industry consolidations and joint ventures continue at a rapid pace.
This is just a sample of the mergers and joint ventures in the business over the past three years alone.
We expect this trend to continue as excess capacity, higher feedstock costs, and commodity pricing drive mergers and consolidations.
This will result in changing traffic patterns, product swaps and other market changes.
Continued focus will be placed on improved chemical yield in 2003. This effort will reflect the value of enhanced service on NS and our safety performance.
Using Modalgistics optimization tools, we are focused on offering our chemical customers value added services to improve private fleet utilization and the use of our Thoroughbred Bulk Terminals.
We also have underway a series of service/gateway initiatives that will benefit chemical customers.
Using multi-rail interline modeling tools, we are working with our interline partners to develop increased flows of chemicals from the Gulf Coast over the New Orleans gateway to the East and Northeast. We call this our Chemical Crescent Service and the benefits look like this ...
Compared to the St. Louis gateway, rail mileage to/from the Gulf Coast via New Orleans to the Northeast is reduced by 14%, resulting in a 25% reduction in transit time. Even highway mileage is 3% longer than this direct rail routing.
We are beginning to transition routings for selected chemical customers to the Chemical Crescent route, and we believe we will see this escalate in 2003.
Turning to metals and construction, strength in coil steel shipments generated a 7% increase in overall metals revenue in 2002, which was partially offset by a 4% decline in construction related revenues producing a net revenue gain of 3%.
As we all know, the steel industry is in a significant transition. Consolidation and repositioning of the steel industry is well underway on a global basis.
After 20 steel related bankruptcies and the closure of 11 integrated mills in the U.S., companies such as International Steel Group (ISG), which didn't exist two years ago, are now poised to be the largest producers of steel in the U.S. after acquisition of LTV Steel's assets and now Bethlehem Steel.
These consolidations are driving new distribution patterns and, in turn, greater opportunity for modal conversions. Our Metals Group secured close to $10 million in truck-to-rail conversions last year and we see an opportunity to significantly increase those in 2003. For example, one major steel customer recently provided us with detailed origin/destination traffic information reflecting over 4 million tons of highway business in 2002. While not all of this is susceptible to rail handling, even 20% of it represents over 7,000 carloads of new potential rail business - with one customer.
We are well positioned to secure this type of business as we have the most extensive access to the steel industry in the East. Also, our SteelNet steel warehouse and distribution network complements our origin sourcing quite well.
As you see from this map, NS serves 36 integrated mills and 14 mini mills across the system.
We also serve over 38 steel processors, and ...
We have over 70 strategically located warehouses and steel transfer facilities with the major locations depicted here. Our newest facility, Collier Metals in Atlanta, was opened in the second half of 2002.
Our annual SteelNet revenues now exceed $63 million and we expect continuing growth at these facilities.
From a market perspective, while steel imports doubled between 1992 and 2001 exceeding 30 million tons annually, early in 2003 we are beginning to see exports of semi-finished steel to Europe and China. This is based on China's transition from an exporter of steel to an importer. Through the first six weeks of this year, we have secured some 300,000 tons of export steel moving through various East Coast ports to Europe and China.
As I stated a few moments ago, modal conversion, using direct rail and leveraging SteelNet distribution capabilities, is key to our market strategy in 2003 and beyond.
As the year progresses, we will continue to see shifts in distribution patterns as consolidation of the industry continues. ISG's purchase of Bethlehem Steel will make it the largest producer in the U.S. with over 16 million tons of capacity.
Similarly, U.S. Steel or AK Steel's acquisition of National Steel will position us for further opportunities.
Also, we have three new mills scheduled to achieve full production in 2003. These facilities will contribute to increased carloadings and revenues. These are IPSCO at Lemoyne, Alabama; SDI at Columbia City, Indiana; and Chapparal Steel at Petersburg, Virginia.
Finally, in the construction sector, state budget cuts for new highway construction will negatively impact aggregates and cement business in 2003, although we expect new cement terminals and access to new sources of crushed stone in the Southeast to offset these market factors in 2003.
In the Agriculture market most of the indicators were positive for this group in 2002, as revenue increased by $20 million, or 3%. Approximately one-quarter of that total gain was from highway conversion as $5 million was secured primarily in new food and consumer products business.
Record corn revenues were achieved as carloads rose by 4% and revenues increased by 11%. Longer haul movements from Iowa and the Chicago gateway influenced this trend, as drought conditions restricted the traditional Illinois, Indiana and Ohio sourcing.
We saw rebounds in fertilizers, beverages, and canned goods with cars and revenue up in each group.
Longer haul corn sourcing will continue in 2003 until the new crop is harvested in the third and fourth quarters. This is dependent on crop conditions and the 2003 harvest. Due to poor crop conditions last year, carryovers of corn from 2001/2002 to 2003 declined to less than one million bushels down some 650 million bushels compared to last year.
Despite the longer hauls our 75 car shuttle train service is having a very positive impact on our ability to improve cycle times in the movement of grain to Southeast feed providers. In 2002 we expanded this service to 4 receiver mills and 20 origin elevators. In 2003, we will add 5 new Southeastern mills that will receive 75 car shuttle trains.
Our 75 car shuttle train service for grain has improved equipment utilization and profitability significantly.
Trips per month have more than doubled allowing us to handle 7,000 more carloads with the same fleet in 2002 vs. 2001.
Fertilizer demand and usage will be higher in 2003. Acreage planted is projected to rise by as much as 2.6 million acres, or 3%. Increased fertilizer usage is also projected to boost yields as low carryovers from last year's poor crop drive increased demand for new crop corn and soybeans.
This has prompted Potash Company of Saskatchewan (PCS) to reopen its shuttered plant at Occidental, Florida which in previous years generated as much as 20,000 carloads annually for NS. We are optimistic that a good portion of these carloadings will be regained.
Finally, natural gas feedstock costs are driving up the costs of domestic nitrogen fertilizers. To capture this import business we are developing an import fertilizer terminal at Chalmette, Louisiana which we feel holds good potential.
These are aerial photographs of the terminal. It will be a good companion facility to the Stolt-Nielsen deepwater facility at Braithwaite, Louisiana which we also serve.
In summary, with our TOP service product, our supply chain initiatives, a solid Merchandise franchise and new products and services, we look forward to further growth in 2003, much of which will come from the highway.
Thank you and I would welcome any questions you may have.

Director Planning and Transportation Operating Systems Vice President Customer Service Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
Fred M. Ehlers
Debbie H. Butler
Good Morning. For the next 30 minutes, Debbie Butler and I would like to talk to you about some of the new Advanced Operating Plan Enhancements underway at Norfolk Southern.
The four systems we will be discussing today are -The Operating Plan Developer, or OPD. The Unified Traffic Control System, or UTCS. The Operation Plan Adherence system, also known as OPA. And, the related Local Operating Plan Adherence system, or LOPA.
What is the Operating Plan Developer?
The Operating Plan Developer is an integrated decision support system for Railway Operating Plan Design, Evaluation, and Improvement.
It is the primary system we will use to monitor and modify the TOP plan on an ongoing basis.
Specifically, OPD was designed to meet several business objectives.
First, we wanted to capitalize on the strengths of Norfolk Southern's integrated production transportation systems. Namely, ABC, our production car routing algorithm and TSR, our production train service register. Having a model that is tightly linked to the production environment is crucial. OPD and ABC/TSR utilize the same underlying routing algorithm, thus results achieved in the modeling environment can be easily and accurately transferred to the production environment and vise-versa. I can't overstate the importance of this capability for accurately modeling railroad operations.
Second, we needed to minimize input data preparation and maximize the users focus on output analysis and operating plan improvements. Historically, in this type of analysis, the user is often overwhelmed by data preparation and transformation tasks that make the analysis of current or "relevant" data extremely time consuming. Again, since OPD is tightly integrated with our production systems, we are able to process a two week traffic sample, and without any human intervention in about an hour.
Third, we wanted to provide our users with analysis tools to - conduct fast "what if" comparison analysis of operating plan changes, monitor planned yard, block, and train volumes, and identify operating plan efficiencies.
And forth, we wanted the universal availability of the planning tool to non-traditional users. We wanted to be able to put OPD on the desk of every Service Design and Terminal Operations employee and provide significant enough functionality so that it becomes incorporated into their daily work routine. We didn't want to develop an application that could only be used by a select group of specialists that would only run the model for special projects on a limited basis.
This is an actual screen capture from OPD.
It is a Java based application that runs over Norfolk Southern's intranet. As you can see, it has a standard windows interface with standard windows functionality.
The screen you are currently viewing is the Block Volume Report for Elkhart, Indiana. The report shows the "planned" daily block volumes for every block made at Elkhart over a defined time frame. This particular report would be used to verify that the blocking plan is effective and that blocks are populating in a manner so that the blocking ability of any yard is fully utilized. This is one of seven "canned" operating plan analysis reports in OPD.
This is another screen capture from OPD.
It represents a series of "canned" operating plan Improvement reports that identifies situations were efficiencies may be gained. This particular report is the Yard Bypass Opportunities. The report identifies situations where we have sufficient block volume between two points to warrant a direct block of traffic, thus avoiding an intermediate handling.
OPD provides a critical analytical tool in creating and maintaining the Norfolk Southern operating plan.
It plays an important role in blocking plan optimization, balancing yard/train operations, rationalizing yard operations, train sizing optimization, traffic diversion studies, and optimizing the operating plan to match traffic forecasts.
Phase I of OPD was implemented in July of 2002 and provides full functionality to support the analysis of the blocking plan.
Phase II of OPD is scheduled to be implemented at the end of this quarter and will expand the blocking capability to train plan analysis, trip planning/customer commitment analysis, and provide an interface to the locomotive fleet sizing model.
The train plan analysis functionality will provide train sizing capability to the model. The trip planning/customer commitment component will introduce the time element to the process and allow us to better understand the interaction of operating plan changes and transit times and to insure that customer commitments are observed. The interface to the locomotive fleet sizing model will facilitate the correct sizing of the locomotive fleet.
The next system I would like to talk about is UTCS or the Unified Traffic Control System.
While OPD is responsible for developing an efficient operating plan, UTCS is one of the systems responsible for efficiently executing the operating plan.
Many business objectives were incorporated in the UTCS project.
First, we wanted to unify and standardize various "stand alone" divisional dispatching systems in order to achieve an integrated network solution. While the dispatching centers will remain geographically and divisionally dispersed, the system will be unified electronically into a single integrated system.
Second, taking advantage of the integration, we wanted a system to coordinate and optimize network train movements in order to efficiently execute the operating plan and improve on-time train performance at intermediate and destination stations.
At the center of this coordination and optimization function is the UTCS movement planner.
The movement planner integrates business objectives with detailed train and track information to formulate a network movement plan. This movement plan is constantly updated and will lead to greater average velocity, less yard congestion, less road congestion, improved asset utilization, and increased on-time train performance.
Another business objective was that UTCS needed to provide very robust disaster recovery capabilities. Not only does the UTCS system incorporate geographically dispersed back-up servers, but we will also have the ability to dispatch any portion of the railroad from any UTCS work station.
A later deliverable in the project is the off-line capacity planner which is to be used for line capacity analysis and determining where capital improvements could be best utilized.
UTCS will also support any future initiatives into positive train control.
UTCS is currently in the software development phase. Factory acceptance testing occurs at the beginning of 2004, with the Georgia Division installation occurring in the 2nd quarter. The remaining divisions will be cut-over every 2-3 months thereafter.
UTCS is typical of the initiatives being undertaken by Norfolk Southern. We are aggressively integrating advanced planning tools with our already robust production systems to further increase efficiency and performance.
Simply said, we are developing the tools to plan the work ... and work the plan.
Operating Plan Adherence, or OPA is the next system I would like to discuss. OPA is a comprehensive system used to measure various aspects of adherence to the operating plan.
The project has two primary focus areas - field execution and overall shipment performance.
Like many of the projects discussed today, many business objectives were incorporated into the design.
The first was to verify that the operating plan is being followed on a consistent basis. Obviously, an operating plan can only be as good as it is executed, so we needed a robust mechanism in place to verify that everything designed in the plan was actually taking place in execution.
Second, we wanted to provide quick performance feedback in an interactive, "drill-down" capable environment. In other words, we wanted to give field personal a scorecard of how they did the previous day with the ability to drill-down into the data.
Third, we needed to provide measurements that are car/shipment centric instead of train centric.
And finally, we needed to provide additional tools to help the field fully understand a dynamic operating plan and provide aids to help them follow the plan.
Currently, OPA covers two field execution dimensions - blocking compliance and connection performance.
Under blocking compliance, we measure - are the correct blocks on the train, are the blocks in the correct standing order, and are the cars in the blocks together. Blocking compliance is important because it facilitates the timely and accurate handling of trains and thus cars through the network
Under connection performance, we measure if the car connected to the right train, on the right day, and did it depart on-time.
Here is a screen capture of the "high level" blocking compliance measures for a day by location, division, and region.
The report indicates the cars handled, the three blocking compliance dimensions (are the correct blocks on the train, are the blocks in the correct standing order, and are the cars in the blocks together), and the overall score. The overall score is a composite of the three blocking dimensions.
Like OPD, this an intranet based report that is available anywhere on the Norfolk Southern network.
Drilling down into the Linwood data, we see the same measurement dimensions, but at a train level detail. These are all the trains that departed Linwood, North Carolina for the day in question.
Drilling down further in the Linwood data for train 119, we can view the blocking level detail. This level indicates block-by-block how the train was constructed from the locomotives to the end-of-train device. If needed, the user can view the actual consist of the train in question.
As you can see, these are very detailed measures. They automate a very complex and previously manual process for all scheduled trains across the Norfolk Southern network.
As I mentioned in the business objectives section. As part of the project, we are also adding information to TYES (our yard inventory and car reporting system) to better indicate the specific connections that the operating plan requires for each car.
In TYES we will display two new fields - next train and car status.
Next train - indicates what the outbound connection train and date is for every inbound car.
Car status - indicates if the car is likely to violate a customer commitment or if the car is in jeopardy of missing the current connection.
What you see here is a screen "mock up" of how the next train/car status data will look like in TYES.
While this is data is from our QA (or, quality assurance system), the NxtTrn column indicates the specified connection train, while the color hi-lighting indicates car status. Again, yellow indicates an IN JEOPARDY car, while red indicates a CUSTOMER COMMITMENT violation.
When in production, we hope not to see this much red and yellow.
A few minutes ago we discussed the blocking performance measures; this screen details the connection performance detail. Again, with "drill-down" capability and next day scoring.
As you can see, we provide a great deal of detail regarding how outbound trains are constructed from inbound connections. The purpose of this detail is to provide a powerful tool to aid in "root cause" analysis and to provide a base for corrective action to be taken in future operations.
The blocking compliance component of OPA was implemented the 3rd quarter of 2002. The connection performance component including the TYES interface is scheduled to be implemented in the 2nd quarter of this year.
At this time, I would like to turn the presentation over to Debbie Butler who will discuss the shipment performance dimension of OPA and our final discussion topic - the local operating plan adherence project.
All rail carriers talk about on-time performance. For that matter, so do trucking companies and the airlines. But particularly in the rail industry, traditional metrics don't provide the whole picture. That's because we tend to talk in terms of train performance, and we provide statistics on on-time origin departures or on-time destination arrivals. Customers know that these metrics don't necessarily correlate to shipment performance.
For example, let's say that on a given shipment from origin to destination, the shipment rides on three trains, each of which has average on-time performance of 90%. Let's say further that the performance of our local switching plan at origin and destination is also 90%. Statistically, what should we expect for average on-time performance for this move? The answer may not surprise this audience, but it surprises many -- the answer is about 60%.
The complexity of the rail networks makes shipment or carload metrics much more difficult to calculate. It is roughly the equivalent of measuring airline performance based on data from each passenger -- did he or she arrive at the hotel or make the meeting on time? -- rather than measuring aircraft performance from gate to gate.
OPA is the most complex data model Norfolk Southern has ever undertaken. As Fred outlined, it drives a number of key internal metrics critical to monitoring our network operations and execution. But because it measures at the carload level and retains information on trip plan and actual movement, data from the Operating Plan Adherence System now also gives us a view of performance much closer to the customer's view.
This is a view of the Shipment Performance Metrics system that OPA has allowed us to develop.
The system compares the original ETA to actual performance. The original ETA is calculated from the first reported movement event on Norfolk Southern after billing is received, to availability at destination or delivery at interchange.
The system allows selection of data for the entire system, by commodity, or by lane, and the user can drill down to lane-level detail regardless of which option is selected. The user can also elect to see the data either in summary report form, or in a distribution graph with intervals of 6 or 12 hours.
In this example lane, and incidentally, this is real data, we've selected a summary report of a general merchandise move from Mansfield, Ohio on the ASRY to Rockport, Indiana. NS moved approximately 4,000 carloads in this lane during 2002.
Scheduled service is train 13V from Mansfield to Columbus, OH, train 375 from Columbus to Huntingburg, IN, and local train D15 from Huntingburg to Rockport.
Here is the report for the dates selected, in this case the week beginning January 27, 2003, through February 2.
A total of 90 shipments moved during this period, and the average variance from original ETA was 9.7 hours. Variance, as measured by standard deviation, was 21.9 hours. 72 of the 90 cars were delivered within 24 hours of the original ETA, for on-time performance of 80%.
From the previous screen, the user can drill down to the car initial and number detail for the 90 cars that moved during the week measured. As you can see on this screen, the detail includes the original ETA, actual arrival time, trip-ending event, variation, and the NS trains on which the cars moved.
This is a distribution graph of variance from the original ETA in 12-hour increments for the same data. Since this is a relatively small population of moves, the distribution is not a normal bell curve. If we were to plot the entire population of merchandise carload moves during the same period, the result would be a normalized bell curve distribution, slightly skewed to the left, or early, side.
Although it is not available on the web-based shipment performance application I just demonstrated, we also have the ability to create reports from OPA data stored in Norfolk Southern's Enterprise Data Warehouse.
This chart shows the same origin-destination pair, but displays data for all moves completed during the month of January, 2003.
The value of this data is not just to create reports about how we did. The data generated from OPA also allows us to analyze our performance and to determine where corrective actions are needed. For example, we determined that the shipments that arrived at Rockport early were handled in an extra from Mansfield to Rockport over the New Year holiday. The late shipments were due to the annulment of Train 375 at Louisville over New Year's Day and the following week.
We have deliberately chosen to demonstrate this system with "real" data, and we have not cherry-picked the best performing lanes. The point is that this is a robust system that allows us to drive into the detail of our performance at the carload level, and to identify the actions needed to improve performance.
The OPA shipment performance system is still in testing, but we expect to make it available to all internal users by the end of March. Our goal is to make the application directly available to our customers on the web as well, but we have some data security issues to overcome first. We project that this part of the project will be completed sometime in early 2004.
The metrics I just demonstrated are a significant step forward for Norfolk Southern. But due to the complexities of our customers' business processes, and of the rail transportation process itself, we still have one more step to take to provide the kind of shipment performance information our customers are demanding, and that we need to manage our business.
If a customer bills and releases a car and we fail to execute that work order, that failure would not be documented in the current Operating Plan Adherence data. The same would apply at destination of a car was available to a customer, was ordered in, and we failed to deliver it.
To fill the gap, we have added new metrics to TYES, our car inventory management system, which we refer to as LOPA, or Local Operating Plan Adherence. No comment about the acronym; our creative acronym inventors must have been off that day!
LOPA links information in the TYES customer profile about scheduled switching days, to the information on the industry work order -- what work was scheduled to be performed -- and provides measurements of work order execution.
The next step will be to link the switching schedules in the TYES profiles to our primary trip planning system in order to provide even better dock-to-dock metrics of our performance against the original ETA. It's a fairly comprehensive project and it's premature to give you a specific completion date. I'll simply say that my expectation is that if I were to give this presentation at the same time next year, I would be able to eliminate this discussion.
This is an Operating Division view of the LOPA data in TYES. Summary information can be displayed at a Region, Station, Customer, or Industry Train level. At the customer or industry train level, the data can be further displayed by car initial and number.
You'll note that this data is drilled down to show local switching performance for the customer at Rockport, IN, during roughly the same period as was covered by the shipment performance metrics I talked about a few minutes ago. Keep in mind, though, that LOPA displays all local switching activities, so this data includes cars received from all origins, not just Mansfield, OH.
Of a total of 1687 planned local switches during the period of January 26 through February 9, 2003, 670, or 29.72% were missed for customer reasons, and 218, or 12.92%, were missed due to railroad error.
Drilling down into the data, we can see that the customer is switched seven days per week, and that the customer has instructed that cars be placed on arrival.
Here we can drill down further to determine the reasons that the switching work was not accomplished. On the railroad side, 194 cars were missed because the cars were deleted from the work order instructions. Since we do not know whether this action was requested by the customer or decided independently by the transportation folks at Rockport, we count it as a railroad miss. There was no explanation from the train crews for why the other 24 cars were not switched so again, we count it as a railroad miss.
On the customer side, all 670 cars missed because the cars were not ready to be pulled when the local switcher arrived to serve the plant.
While we have only reviewed four of our Advanced Operating Plan Enhancements, what you have seen is typical of the work going on at Norfolk Southern.
Our system development efforts are intensely focused on functionality to increase transit consistency and timeliness; to improve customer service, network efficiency, and data quality; and to support advanced analytical capabilities. We believe each one of these systems reviewed this morning plays an important role in achieving these goals.
Thank you for your time.

Vice President Transportation - Operations Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
Tony L. Ingram
As a network operating plan, our Thoroughbred Operating Plan lives on the divisions and in the terminals across the Norfolk Southern system. It is the "playbook" that our operating managers use to guide their employees every day.
As TOP was developed, we asked our field managers to take ownership. We asked them to challenge whether the plan is realistic and achievable. We asked them to make sure it uses our capacity efficiently, so that we don't create bottlenecks. We asked them to make sure it can be executed consistently. And, we asked them to make sure the plan is cost-effective.
With this ownership, our field operating people then were set to implement the Thoroughbred Operating Plan across the system.
With TOP, we created a more disciplined operating environment.
Traffic moves by plan on scheduled trains, so our field operations managers are better able to allocate resources to meet customer needs.
The way in which we plan work for yard and local crews is simplified as well. Yardmasters can process traffic through the yard facilities in a planned and consistent manner. Each terminal processes traffic to meet a connection standard. With more reliable on-time train performance, yard operations have become more consistent. This avoids the need to "replan" work to fit circumstances that vary each day.
TOP gives us the means to improve our use of capacity across the rail network.
For example, with more predictable train operations, terminals can allocate track space with a higher degree of certainty about the track space required, and the duration that the track is occupied.
With more predictable train operations, we're able to assign locomotives from inbound train to outbound train more effectively.
The end result is improved capacity utilization, lower operating costs and improved service reliability.
With TOP's advantages, it's clear that the Norfolk Southern network is poised for growth. Our terminal facilities can handle additional volumes.
Our train plan provides scheduled service between interchanges and terminals, and between serving yards and terminals, with space on trains to handle additional traffic.
The cost of adding business to existing trains is a small fraction of the additional revenue that can be earned.
In concert with TOP, we formed a team that focuses on infrastructure needs. The team works to see that capital funding is provided for projects that improve capacity where justified by business opportunities.
TOP is a major benefit to our local customers.
We now are able to schedule local trains to use main track and yard capacity, as we take advantage of the windows of opportunity created by the consistent operation of over-the-road trains between terminals.
Better use of free track capacity by our local service crews helps control operating costs and in some cases should provide more capacity.
A further TOP enhancement is in the area of locomotive sharing.
Locomotive sharing is more effective when the "going" and the "coming" of local trains occur at regular times, as they do with a scheduled railroad.
Improved locomotive sharing on Norfolk Southern increases usable capacity and fewer delays for local service crews.
Once again, in serving yards that have been strained for capacity, this opens up some breathing room and in some cases postpones or avoids the need for capital investment.
Along the same lines, TOP helps us schedule our track maintenance programs more efficiently.
The track maintenance workday can be more productive when there's less interference from variations in train operations.
Maintenance forces can have more track time, and they can complete their work faster and at a lower cost.
During 2002, our maintenance forces had an average 0.35 hours per day more time on track than they did during 2001. That's a 6% increase in working time!
Another area of TOP-related improvement relates to the way in which we assign our employees to operate trains.
Traditionally, crews moving trains from terminal to terminal have been called to work when the train is ready.
But with the scheduled railroad, we're starting to enjoy opportunities to give our Train and Engine employees scheduled reporting times and scheduled off days.
This has been a basic for many industrial jobs, but in the transportation industry the tradition of working when needed - without a set schedule - can be challenging.
Right now, all of our operating divisions are designing crewing arrangements that schedule the workforce.
We're paying special attention to employee concerns, because the changes can be major for those who for many years have worked on a call-in basis.
In doing this we're enjoying close teamwork between labor leaders and our operations managers.
Here are some examples of the new approach to crew assignments.
Fourteen of our scheduled 25 originating trains called each day between Elkhart and points east and west are crewed with employees who are not called to work. Instead, they simply report at the assigned time on each work day, so that the trains will depart on schedule.
In our North Jersey intermodal terminals, all departing intermodal trains are operated by employees who have assigned reporting times.
Two results of the scheduled work force have been an improvement in attendance rates and less variation in employee availability levels.
We're also seeing benefits in safety and accident prevention.
Employee attitudes about scheduled train crew assignments are summed up on this slide in the comments of one of our engineers.
Looking ahead, it's clear that TOP and the strong relationships we have with union leadership are going to give us even more opportunities to extend work force scheduling.
I believe continued improvements in this area are going to help retain our experienced work force and attract new people to the industry as well.
Let me switch over now to Conway Yard, where - as you know - we made some dramatic improvements through TOP.
Mark Manion mentioned our improvements; let me add a couple of points.
Conway was built to operate as a dual hump yard facility with separate hump yards for cars moving east and west. The benefit was that it provided tremendous processing capacity and accommodated a large number of classifications in each direction. The drawback, however, was the additional handling and delays incurred when cars needed to cross over from one hump yard to the other.
With the more complex "new Norfolk Southern," the number of cars crossing from one yard to another greatly increased, to about 300 per day. At the same time, the number of cars processed at Conway decreased.
This diagram depicts the layout of Conway before the yard rationalization project.
As you can see, there are basically two of everything:
2 classification yards,
2 receiving yards, and
2 forwarding yards.
Of course, all of these facilities are staffed with employees of various crafts carrying out their functions to process traffic in each of the two independent yards.
Basically, by closing the eastbound receiving, classification and departure yards, we turned Conway into a typical single hump classification yard.
We eliminated the need to re-handle some 300 cars per day, and we eliminated 41 classifications. Now we classify the cars to optimize car miles, car hire and intermediate handling costs.
Today Conway handles 1,679 cars per day, which is only 122 fewer than before the rationalization project. Put another way, we're now processing about the same amount cars as before, but using only half the facility.
In doing this, we've been able to eliminate a number of yardmaster, train crew, mechanical and maintenance of way positions. And, we're saving on capital costs for switch renewals, retarder replacements and the like.
This diagram depicts the layout of Conway Yard after the yard rationalization project.
As indicated, much of the duplicated capacity has been idled. What were formerly the eastbound yards have been removed from service and all of the traffic is now processed through the formerly westbound yards. The only portions of the eastbound yards that remain in use support connectivity to the westbound yards from the eastward main track and provide additional receiving yard capacity by using outer tracks from the eastbound classification yard.
As you know, this type of reduction has the potential to create tension for employees.
In this case, however, the genesis of the project rested as much with our employees as it did with terminal managers. In implementing the final yard configuration, we benefited from the input of labor leaders, yardmasters and other employees who work in the facility every day.
After we decided to move forward, we met several times with people on each shift to explain the project and get suggestions so that implementation would be smooth. We spent a good bit of time discussing the vital role of Conway Yard in Norfolk Southern's future.
As a result, acceptance was high and employees have taken an ownership role in making certain that the changes are successful. The transition was uneventful, and the savings from this project are accruing daily.
Let me talk a minute about on-time performance.
In this area, we've given our field managers a number of measurement tools to gauge performance against plan requirements.
On-time percentages are calculated by train types as previously outlined by Mark Manion.
Performance of individual trains in these groups is tracked daily. Delays are recorded, and we take corrective actions to improve performance.
Another key measurement factor is terminal dwell at major terminals. This also is monitored daily so that any "loitering" cars are identified and moved, and so that terminal plans can be structured to ensure minimal dwell time and minimum handling.
We accumulate the daily measurements and distribute them in summary form on a weekly basis. We focus on on time train performance by train type, percent on time from origin, percent on time in transit and percent on time arriving at destination.
These measurements make it possible to quickly determine the performance trend for each specific train.
We can see and quickly correct the root problems for poorly performing trains.
Currently we measure train performance from origin terminal to destination terminal.
But now we have developed a tool to assess our performance between the terminals and customers. We never miss an opportunity to create a new acronym - we call it LOPA, or Local Operating Plan Adherence.
LOPA evaluates adherence to our work orders and indicates the extent to which we provide service by pulling cars from, or placing them at, customer sidings.
Based on predetermined service standards, LOPA then measures our adherence to the service commitments we have in place for each car.
Together with the on time train performance measurements I described earlier, LOPA gets us much closer to the true "dock to dock" measurements.
Debbie Butler will discuss "dock-to-dock" in her presentation.
With train performance measurements, LOPA and individual car trip plans, we are starting to provide a real tool box to help our managers quickly evaluate train performance.
This is going to be of tremendous value to both Norfolk Southern and our customers.
At this point, I've run out of acronyms and time.
Thank you for listening.
I will be happy to try to answer any questions.

Vice President Transportation Services and Mechanical Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
Mark D. Manion
Our Thoroughbred Operating Plan has brought increasing consistency to our transportation network. We are building a reputation for reliable transportation service, which we think will result in increasing growth as we proceed. While this alone is exciting, we've found the plan has had a big effect on cost reduction.
We set out on a course to rebuild the General Merchandise Network Plan two years ago understanding that reliability was key. We've put together an optimum plan with the aid of sophisticated computer systems and we've worked hard to operate right to the plan.
This new operating plan has been tightly built around anticipated traffic volumes and customer commitments. It is a plan that is efficient and allows for reliable and consistent execution. Train schedules are even tailored to day of the week volume fluctuations.
After having this plan fully in place for a year, we can report that our operations people have been very successful in not only adhering to the plan, but also continuing to ramp up the performance of our network. With frequent service to so many origin/destination pairs around our system, we are meeting our customers' needs better than ever. About 75% of our general merchandise customers enjoy a shorter transit time, and consistency is our mantra. Operations and Sales & Marketing were fully engaged in developing the plan. Likewise we're working closer than ever when it comes to implementing the plan and serving customers. This relationship between departments is proving to be a key ingredient as we work together to grow business.
We began building our new operating plan 1st Quarter 2001 and applied much science to the process. Our people concentrated on developing a plan that would move freight from origin to destination with as few stops, or handlings as we call them, as possible. We began rolling the plan out in phases starting in summer 2001 and completed the rollout in February 2002, when we opened the yard at Enola, complete with improvements, in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Throughout 2002 we have had opportunities to adjust the plan based on business conditions, as well as adjustments for greater efficiency. In the latter part of 2002, we moved TOP to a new level or what we call TOP II and began looking at rationalization of our yards that we will discuss later in the presentation.
As a result of our new operating plan, we have experienced improved metrics in a number of different areas. Our cars on line, since full implementation of TOP, has reduced to a steady state in the 185,000 to 190,000 car range. This represents an improvement of 6.6% over 2001. Reducing cars on line contributes to a more fluid network and helps drive increased train speed, as well as overall velocity of the network. These things all together have resulted in not only more consistent service, but also shorter transit times in many cases. The velocity improvements have also resulted in a marked improvement in our cost of equipment rents. We have improved approximately 14.4% over 2001 and this equates to about $62 million in savings. Our average train speed has improved 4.9% and our terminal dwell has improved 5.5%. Both of which contribute to improved velocity and better service to our customers.
As you can see, we are continuing to improve our train performance in our various business groups. General merchandise freight, for example, improved 17% to 83% on time; this is within a two-hour window. While we are not satisfied with our current performance, we are encouraged by continuing improvement and are driving to further improve performance throughout this year.
Our Thoroughbred Operating Plan has enabled the Control Center and Field Operations to schedule locomotive assignments to coincide with the operating plan. This has resulted in more locomotives being relayed from train to train, the elimination of unnecessary fueling events, the reduction in handling of locomotive consists and the reduction in the number of units serviced at each terminal. Bottom line, the locomotive plan provides a consistent road map for all to follow.
We have several objectives for TOP in 2003, which will help grow revenues as well as drive costs out of the system. A few minutes ago I mentioned TOP II. This is an initiative to reduce our yard operations where we find it smart to do so. By reducing yards, we not only capture those immediate savings, but also simplify and streamline the operation. Reducing yards results in traffic aggregating at fewer points, resulting in bigger blocks of traffic running to common destinations and more density on our core routes. We are working hard to break the 90% on time threshold for both on time departures and over the road transit time. Two important systems that we will depend on in 2003 are Operating Plan Adherence and Operating Plan Developer. Simply put, one is a system to measure shipment performance and the other is a means by which we can review real time traffic data. Debbie and Fred will go into more detail on these systems in their presentation.
We have been analyzing our entire network to determine which of our yards can be reduced or eliminated. Our computer systems play a key role in this analysis and allow us to observe how changes will impact other parts of the system. With modeling capability, we have been able to analyze what impact changes in various yards would have on the network. We also take into account the benefit of avoiding large near-term Maintenance of Way expenses at facilities we may be able to reduce or eliminate. As we reduce yards, we pay close attention to insure that we also reduce both car miles and car handlings. The yard rationalization process is coordinated closely with field operations, is reviewed in depth with the TOP Steering Committee and is finalized by senior management.
To give you a specific example, Conway Yard, which is our system hump yard in Pittsburgh was converted from a dual hump to a single hump in December of last year. This was a case where two humps were operating at less than maximum capacity, and we had an opportunity to improve our efficiency by putting all our traffic through one hump. With this change, we not only reduced our operating costs associated with one of the two humps, but we streamlined our network as well. As a result of this change, we had several positive effects. We reduced the number of classifications being made. We also improved the traffic flows by reducing car handlings and car miles through a redesigned train and blocking plan. We eliminated the need to cross yard cars from one hump to the other, resulting in a reduction of 300 rehandlings per day. We reduced manpower in all departments, including T&E Service, Yardmasters, Mechanical, Maintenance of Way and C&S. Additionally, we avoided capital improvement requirements that we re imminent for Conway's eastbound hump.
Through the redesign of Conway into the network plan, we reduced car days by 266 per day, intermediate handlings by 233 and car miles by 14, 861 per day. Each of these resulting in an improved and more fluid operation.
At Knoxville we reduced what was a system hump to a local yard operation. As with Conway, this resulted in reduced car handlings and car miles through a redesign of traffic flows in TOP to further improve transit efficiencies in the central part of our system. By rescheduling 48% of the traffic handled at Knoxville, we were able to eliminate the hump operation and utilized existing capacity at our yards in Chattanooga, Tennessee and Sheffield, Alabama.
We continue to handle local customer traffic at Knoxville and have reduced our resources required to maintain a smaller scale operation. Knoxville is another case where we avoided capital expenses. In this case we avoided replacing car retarder systems and switches required in the hump operation.
The redesign of the traffic flows around Knoxville resulted in the elimination of 290 car days per day, 275 intermediate handlings and 14, 269 car miles per day.
During 2003 we will continue to pursue opportunities to size our network assets to enhance the efficiencies of the Thoroughbred Operating Plan. Additionally, we will identify train performance issues through root cause analysis to achieve consistent performance above 90%.

Vice President Intermodal Marketing Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
Michael R. McClellan

Vice President and Treasurer Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
William J. Romig
I will provide you with an overview of Norfolk Southern's capital structure and our recent progress in reducing debt. I will also update you on the status of our fuel hedging program.
My first chart portrays our capital structure at the end of 2002. Total long-term debt was approximately $7.4 billion, including current maturities of $358 million. Total equity at the end of the year was $6.5 billion, producing a ratio of debt to total capitalization of approximately 53%.
The next chart shows the quarterly trend in Norfolk Southern's debt ratio during the past three years. Our debt ratio has declined for seven consecutive quarters. Our year end debt ratio of 53.1% on December 31, 2002 was 2.5% below the level one year earlier and 4.5% below the level at beginning of 2000.
Notes represented about 86% of our total debt at the end of 2002, while equipment trusts accounted for 8% and capital leases and other long-term debt accounted for 6% of the total. We had no commercial paper outstanding at the end of 2002.
Please note that I am focusing only on Norfolk Southern's external debt. Our balance sheet also includes inter-company notes payable to the Pennsylvania Lines, LLC subsidiary of Conrail in the amount of $513 million. Norfolk Southern and CSX use similar borrowings from Pennsylvania Lines and New York Central Lines.
Most of our external debt carries fixed interest rates. At the end of December, 89% of our debt was fixed rate, while 11% was floating-rate debt.
The weighted average interest rate on our debt was 6.9% on December 31, 2002.
The low average rates for equipment trusts and capital leases reflect the fact that a sizable portion of both (38% for equipment trusts and 46% for capital leases and other) have variable interest rates.
The next chart shows our future maturities of long-term debt. Maturities in 2003 will be $358 million. Maturities in 2004 will be dictated by whether holders of the 7.05% notes due in 2037 exercise an option to put the bonds to Norfolk Southern at par in May, 2003. Currently, interest rates are at a level where we do not expect that these bonds would be put.
This chart reviews our changes in debt in 2002. Increases in long-term debt totaled $352 million, consisting of $52 million of equipment trust certificates used to finance the acquisition of 50 new locomotives and $300 million of notes.
Reductions in long-term debt totaled $620 million, primarily reflecting the maturity of $500 million of notes in May.
The net reduction in external debt was $268 million.
While the net reduction in Norfolk Southern's external debt was $268 million, Conrail also reduced its long-term debt by approximately $36 million. Including our 58% share of this debt reduction, the reduction in consolidated debt was $289 million.
We also reduced our sale of accounts receivable by $270 million from the level at the end of 2001. If, like the major credit agencies, we view securitized receivables as debt, our decrease in consolidated debt in 2002 becomes $559 million.
A combination of strong cash flow and lower capital expenditures fueled our reduction in debt in 2002. Cash from operations in 2002--including our borrowings from Pennsylvania Lines but excluding proceeds from the sale of accounts receivable-was nearly $1.3 billion in 2002 versus $992 million in 2001. Cash flow after capital expenditures, investments, and dividends exceeded $500 million in 2002 versus $298 million in 2001 and negative $17 million in 2000.
This chart focuses on our aggregate reductions in debt during the past three years. Since the beginning of 2000, Norfolk Southern's long-term debt has declined by $695 million. In addition, our share of the reduction in long-term debt at Conrail totaled $256 million. The total reduction in our consolidated debt was, therefore, $951 million.
Our receivables securitization program began in 2000, and proceeds from the sale of receivables were $30 million at the end of 2002. Including these proceeds as debt would reduce the three-year decline in consolidated debt to $921 million. From either perspective, we have made very meaningful progress towards our longstanding commitment to debt reduction.
Our success in reducing debt is reflected in our credit ratings. This chart compares the credit ratings of the largest North American railroads. Acknowledging the progress we have made to improve cash flow and reduce debt, both S&P and Moody's removed the negative outlook on their ratings for Norfolk Southern during 2002. As you may recall, the S&P outlook was increased in April. The Moody's outlook was increased at the end of November.
Turning to our fuel hedging program, I will remind you that we initiated our current program in 2001 with a goal of reducing our exposure to fuel price fluctuations. The program has used both swaps and advance purchases.
Swaps are placed monthly for 3.3% of forecast consumption over a rolling 24-month horizon. When the program is fully implemented in April 2003, 80% of our anticipated monthly fuel consumption will be hedged.
Our average price per gallon of fuel was 73 cents in 2002 versus 86 cents in 2001. Consumption was modestly lower at 472 million gallons in 2002 versus 478 million gallons in 2001. As you can see, the fourth quarter was the first time in 2002 that we experienced year over year increases in fuel prices.
Overall, in 2002, we hedged 71% of our diesel fuel requirements using swaps and advance purchases to produce an average price of 71 cents on the hedged fuel.
The swaps within our hedging program produced a net savings of approximately $10 million for the year. The net impact of the advance purchases was favorable for NS as well.
We had 80.2 million gallons of fuel hedged in the fourth quarter of 2002. Hedges in the first, second, and third quarters totaled 82.2, 92.3, and 79.6 million gallons, respectively. The average price on hedged fuel ranged from 69 cents in the first quarter of 2002 to 76.8 cents in the fourth quarter.
Turning to 2003, 62% of our anticipated fuel consumption is hedged at an average price of 73 cents per gallon. As I indicated a moment ago, we expect that April 2003 will be the first month in which our swaps will hedge 80% of forecast consumption. As Norfolk Southern layers in additional swaps, and old swaps expire, we expect to maintain this 80% hedge level for the immediate month.
Once we reach the 80% threshold, about 62% of the ensuing 12 months' fuel consumption will consistently be hedged.

Senior General Counsel Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 27, 2003
F. Blair Wimbush
Good morning, thank you for the opportunity to tell you about an exciting product being deployed on the NS system.
In the early 90's, Norfolk Southern faced a rising tide of lawsuits from grade crossing accidents and trespasser incidents. A principal problem in cases was the absence of reliable witness testimony as to what occurred at the point of collision. For every train and engine employee who testified that the warning signals were working or that the horn was sounded, there were more victims or nearby witnesses who would say the signals were not working and that they heard no horns blown by the crew.
In the interest of improving safety at crossings, and to address the economic problem, the Law, Claims and Research & Tests departments collaborated to develop a concept for an on-board video camera to record crossing and trespasser events.
An evaluation of existing products indicated there was nothing suitable for the requirements the Railway needed. You may recall that back in those days we were still using VCRs and VHS tapes instead of DVDs and computer discs.
To develop an appropriate product, NS worked with SAIC to develop the "RailView" camera system.
Several basic requirements had to be met for the system to be useful. We needed high resolution video images (day or night); audio recording of the horn and bells for playing to a jury if the need arose; it had to be durable and reliable for the locomotive operating environment; and had to be adaptable to new and existing locomotives.
The first prototype of the system was developed and installed experimentally in 1997 and after further research and development a working model was placed in service on the Greensboro Line of the Piedmont Division. When the test results came in the results were as clear as a picture -- IT WORKS!
Early in the development process, a serious challenge erupted with our employees. The initial microphone location was capable of inadvertently picking up some crew conversations. Unlike the airline industry where cockpit voice recorders are mandatory and commonplace, there is no such requirement or custom in our industry. Many employees were concerned with a loss of privacy represented by voice recordings and that the recordings would offer management a new disciplinary tool if rule violations were recorded. During one inspection of the camera-equipped units, we found that most units had damaged, destroyed or missing microphones.
To address this serious problem, especially as greater camera deployment was planned, the COO and other NS representatives met with union General Chairmen. We agreed to relocate all microphones to locations where no voice conversations will be recorded. And, NS affirmed its position that tampering would not be tolerated. The software was reengineered to be tamper-evident.
A decision has now been made to fully implement the camera system on a phased basis. As depicted on the next slide, the camera is mounted in the top corner of the window of the locomotive cab. As next shown, the actual recorder or control box for the system is mounted at the top of the stairs leading into the portion of the cab that houses the electrical equipment for the locomotive. Although this picture shows a microphone next to the control box, new and retrofitted installations have the mike relocated under the cab.
Note the camera mount in the windshield of the cab.
Here you see the control box that houses the recorder. To the left of the box you may be able to see a black cable with the mike attached.
The data is stored on hard drive in the control box as well as a removable PC memory card. The system can record up to 40 hours of data. To conserve recording time, the system turns on when the speed of the locomotive reaches 2 MPH and continues to record for about 10 minutes after the locomotive stops moving.
Currently, we have 360 locomotives with full RailView units installed; another 81 have the cameras and wiring installed and will get recorders when they reach their next scheduled shop visit. We also have on order an additional 400 recorders in the current year's AFE. New locomotives come factory equipped with the RailView system, while existing units are outfitted during their scheduled 92 - Day Inspections.
The cost of each unit is roughly $10,000; and we require the service of 2 full-time engineers to do initial installations on the existing fleet and to maintain the system once installed.
As you will see in the 4 video clips I am about to show, we now have a product that records the information we want, such that we now have a fairly clear picture of what actually happens during a grade crossing or trespasser incident. And we often know what the driver or trespasser was doing when an accident occurred. As I will mention in a moment, we no longer have to rely on what people say happened!
Clip 1: May 14, 2001, SC. 1:05 p.m. Flashing lights and bell. Also, shortline conductor had flagged driver to stop but driver continued onto crossing. Nationwide Insurance adjuster and driver given description of video footage; Nationwide paid emergency room bill for driver and for van. No claim pressed against RR.
Clip 2: November 17, 2000. Bluefield, WV, 3:06 p.m. Crossing with cross bucks only. WHISTLE BAN zone so horn is not sounded until crew realizes car will not stop. Driver allegedly is Mrs. Hankins but appears to be a male in the picture. Attorney contacted railway for couple but after he was shown video, he ended representation of couple and assured us we would not hear further from them.
Clip 3: Muncie, IN. 4:25 p.m. Driver has her 4 children in car; does not stop at STOP sign. Gets to track and stops abruptly with front end over track. No serious injuries. Claim agent reviewed video with husband and wife (driver) and no claim pressed for about 1 year. Driver called to discuss nominal settlement. Final resolution of all claims was for $2500.
Clip 4: November 14, 2002, Haleyville, AL Sand truck. Driver watching motorist on parallel road, so he can make left turn. Apparently oblivious to presence of train-driver does not see the train approaching although sight distance was clear and virtually unlimited. Amazingly-he also does not hear it even though horn is sounded for an extended time. Driver not seriously injured.
Although the system is still being phased in, we can already see some of its impacts for claims handling. We now have a moving image of what happened at the crossing-we know if the signals work, whether the horn was blown. We also know in many cases what the motorist or trespasser was doing just before impact.
The benefits of the system are many. The clearer picture of what happens reduces the number of lawsuits filed and reduces the value of claims filed. This is especially so with respect to trespasser or pedestrian claims. We have long known but been unable to prove that many pedestrian deaths are suicides or the fault of the victims. With these cameras, we can demonstrate, in many cases, that the person made a choice to be struck by the train.
The Federal Railroad Administration has not chosen to require locomotive voice recorders on trains; however, the National Transportation Safety Board has recommended that FRA do so.
Information gleaned from the recorders may indicate avenues of change for grade crossing safety.
NS can use information gathered to determine where remedial training is needed with crews and equipment.

Assistant Vice President - Corporate Accounting Norfolk Southern Corporation Special Securities Analyst Meeting Brosnan Forest, S.C. February 28, 2003
Marta Stewart
Good morning.
It's my pleasure to be with you.
Today I would like to provide an overview of a difficult and sometimes confusing subject - pension accounting.
I will present a summary of the key elements of pension accounting, walk through Norfolk Southern's pension disclosures and then conclude by trying to answer any questions you may have.
In 1956, Accounting Research Bulletin 47 was issued which provided a general framework for accounting for pension costs. The guidelines were rather simplistic and allowed for divergence in recording and reporting of pensions.
In 1966 in a further attempt to align accounting disclosures, Accounting Principles Board Opinion 8 was issued. This Opinion established the principle that pension expense exists independently of how a company funds the plan but generally accepted the existing accounting practices.
In 1974 ERISA was passed which gave pension obligations a legal status. In addition, this was at a time of relatively high inflation and high interest rates. These factors led to an increased focus on both pension funding and pension liabilities.
As a result, the FASB put pensions on its agenda and in 1985 issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87. Amongst other things, Statement 87 required that pension liabilities move from the footnotes to the balance sheet, provided far more rigid rules for the calculation of expense and expanded disclosure requirements.
Statement 87 has three fundamental concepts:
Delayed recognition;
Net cost; and
Offsetting.
Delayed recognition is the smoothing concept that provides for changes in the pension obligation and the pension assets to be recognized not as they occur, but over time in a systematic and gradual pattern.
The net cost concept requires companies to reflect all the pieces related to the pension plan as one net number. Therefore, the compensation cost of benefits promised, the interest cost of the deferred payment of the benefits and the gains or losses on plan assets are shown as a single net amount in the income statement.
The third concept, offsetting, allows for the values of assets contributed to the plan and the pension liability to be shown net in the balance sheet.
In order to apply these concepts towards the calculation of pension cost and benefit obligations, certain assumptions must be made about the projected benefits to be paid to an employee after retirement.
For example, in order to estimate the pension obligation you have to make assumptions with regard to what the person will be earning in the future, when the person is going to retire, their life expectancy as well as many other variables. Statement 87 requires that each actuarial assumption on its own represent the best estimate of the future outcome.
Here are the major assumptions as included in our pension footnote.
The return on plan assets reflects the long-term expectation for investment returns. This is the item that has been getting so much attention recently due to the decline in the equity markets. As you are aware, we adjusted our expected rate of return from 10% to 9% last year. In determining the rate, together with our actuaries, we looked at our actual returns over various time periods as well as at our investment portfolio mix.
The discount rate is the second major assumption and reflects the year-end estimate of the interest rate at which the company's pension obligation could be settled. It is based on Aaa and Aa corporate bond yields and was 6.75% at year-end 2002.
The assumed rate of future salary increases for pension cost was 5% in 2002, which was the same it had been for four years. For 2003, based on an analysis of historical salary increases, this rate will change to 4.5%.
This slide gives you an idea of some of the other assumptions that have an impact on the calculations. These include:
Employee turnover;
Retirement age;
Mortality of employees;
Mortality of their spouses;
Survivor benefit option they will choose;
Married versus unmarried percentage; and
Average age of spouses.
I won't go into the details of each of these as they are somewhat stable and, therefore, have less of an effect on the year-to-year pension cost change, but I would be happy to talk about any of these assumptions during the question period.
I am going to use the disclosures in our footnotes on the next couple of slides to walk through the elements that make up pension cost.
The first component is service cost, which is the portion of the future pension benefit that employees earned this year. It is calculated using expected future salary levels and the assumed discount rate.
The second component is interest cost which is comparable to the interest expense that accrues due to the passage of time on any monetary liability. It is calculated using the benefit obligation at the beginning of the year multiplied by the discount rate.
The first two components relate specifically to the current year. The remaining components are where delayed recognition comes into play.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated by taking the market-related value of the assets and multiplying by the expected rate of return. Earnings on plan assets increase assets in the plan and reduce the amount of contributions required by the employer - thereby reducing pension expense.
Prior service cost is the retroactive effect for service prior to plan inception and plan amendments. This cost is amortized over the average future service years of plan participants.
The net actuarial gain is the amortization of the cumulative differences between what was expected and the actual results. In order to calculate this the actuary takes all items where the actual results differed from what was expected. These differences are gathered in a pool of "actuarial gains and losses."
Here is where it gets a little complicated. You take the pool of actuarial gains and losses. You then see what portion of this pool exceeds 10% of the greater of (1) the benefit obligation, or (2) the fair value of plan assets. To the extent the pool exceeds the 10% threshold, you amortize this into pension expense over the remaining service life of the plan participants. It should be noted that under this approach no portion of a gain or loss is recognized in the period in which it occurs.
The total of these elements is the net pension benefit or expense.
Now we will turn to the balance sheet. This slide shows the balance of the pension obligation.
The obligation as of the beginning of the year was $1.3 billion. This liability increases for the $17 million service cost and the $91 million interest cost that we just saw in the calculation of the pension costs. Also affecting the obligation is $54 million of actuarial losses associated with the change in discount rate and other differences with actuarial assumptions. Lastly benefits paid of $116 million reduce the benefit obligation resulting in an end of the year obligation of approximately $1.4 billion. This gives you the liability side of the pension plan.
This next slide rolls forward the asset side of the pension plan.
The fair value of the pension plan assets at the beginning of the year was $1.8 billion. The actual return on plan assets during 2002 was a $201 million loss which of course reduced the asset value. Also reducing the value were withdrawals from the plan which consisted of an $18 million 401(h) transfer to cover medical payments for retirees and $116 million of retirement benefits paid. The result is a fair value of plan assets of approximately $1.5 billion at the end of the year.
The difference between the $1.5 billion asset value and the $1.4 billion pension liability we just saw on the previous slide is the funded status of the plan. This was $99 million overfunded as of the end of the year.
The last section of this table reconciles from this overfunded status to the net pension asset that is on our balance sheet. The reconciling items are $305 million of unrecognized loss and $26 million of unrecognized prior service cost. As you will recall from our delayed recognition discussion, these reflect actual results that have occurred in the plan but have not yet been amortized into the financials.
That concludes my prepared remarks. I would be happy to answer any questions you might have.


