FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20041001115249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
                                                      Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
                                             
   
   
 October 1, 2004 (September 28, 2004)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act  (17 CFR   230.425)
[ ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
      Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of                       Principal Officers
Item 5.02
     Other Events
Item 8.01
            On September 28, 2004, the Registrant issued a Press Release, attached hereto as an exhibit, announcing a series of senior-level executive and organizational changes approved by its Board of Directors, including the election of a President of Registrant.
            Effective October 1, 2004, Charles W. Moorman was elected President of Registrant.  Mr. Moorman, age 52, previously served as Senior Vice President Corporate Planning and Services from December 1, 2003, until his election as President.  Prior thereto, he served as Senior Vice President Corporate Services from February 1, 2003, until November 30, 2003, and as President of Thoroughbred Technology and Telecommunications, Inc., a subsidiary of Registrant, from October 1, 1999, until January 31, 2003.
            Registrant confirms, as required by regulations under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, that (1) there is no family relationship between Mr. Moorman and any director or executive officer of Registrant, (2) there was no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Moorman and any other person pursuant to which he was elected as President, and (3) there is no transaction between Mr. Moorman and Registrant that would require disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.  There is no employment agreement between Mr. Moorman and Registrant.
            As a consequence of Mr. Moorman's election as President, effective October 1, 2004, David R. Goode's title, formerly Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Registrant, was changed to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 SIGNATURES
                                                                                                                                                (Registrant)
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
                                                                             /s/ Dezora M. Martin
                                                                       _________________________________                                                                        Name:     Dezora M. Martin                                                                        Title:        Corporate Secretary
Date:  October 1, 2004
Exhibit                 
Number
Description
99                         Press Release dated September 28, 2004.

        
 
NORFOLK SOUTHERN NAMES MOORMAN PRESIDENT, PROMOTES SIX SENIOR OFFICERS
 
NORFOLK, VA - Norfolk Southern Corporation (NYSE: NSC) today announced changes to its senior management team, including the election of a new president and the promotion of six senior executives. The changes will be effective Oct. 1.
David R. Goode, chairman and chief executive officer, said that Charles W. Moorman, currently senior vice president corporate planning and services, has been elected president. L.I. Prillaman, vice chairman and chief marketing officer; Stephen C. Tobias, vice chairman and chief operating officer; and Henry C. Wolf, vice chairman and chief financial officer, will report to Moorman.
Moorman, a native of Hattiesburg, Miss., and a graduate of Georgia Tech and Harvard Business School, joined Norfolk Southern in 1970. He has served in senior positions in the corporation's transportation, personnel, labor relations, information technology and strategic planning areas. He was named president of NS' Thoroughbred Technology and Telecommunications subsidiary in 1999 and to his current position in 2003.
Goode announced the following executive changes: 
-- James A. Hixon, currently senior vice president legal and government affairs, was named executive vice president finance and public affairs, reporting to Wolf.
-- Mark D. Manion, currently senior vice president transportation operations, was named executive vice president operations, reporting to Tobias.
-- Kathryn B. McQuade, currently senior vice president finance, was named executive vice president planning and chief information officer, reporting to Moorman.
-- John P. Rathbone, currently senior vice president administration, was named executive vice president administration, reporting to Moorman.
-- Donald W. Seale, currently senior vice president marketing services, was named executive vice president sales and marketing, reporting to Prillaman.
-- James A. Squires, currently vice president law, was named senior vice president law, reporting to Wolf.
In announcing the changes, Goode said, "Norfolk Southern is extremely fortunate to have such a talented executive team, and Wick Moorman is a seasoned, dynamic leader. This is the team that will help us take full advantage of the opportunities presented by our expanding markets and efficient transportation network."
            Norfolk Southern Corporation is one of the nation's premier transportation companies. Its Norfolk Southern Railway subsidiary operates 21,500 route miles in 22 states, the District of Columbia and Ontario, serving every major container port in the eastern United States and providing superior connections to western rail carriers. NS operates the most extensive intermodal network in the East and is the nation's largest rail carrier of automotive parts and finished vehicles.
 
 
For further information contact:
            (Media) Bob Fort, 757-629-2710
            (Investors) Leanne Marilley, 757-629-2861


