FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20051202121428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act  (17 CFR   230.425)
[ ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01.    
            On December 1, 2005, Norfolk Southern Corporation ("NS") and its wholly-owned subsidiary The Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company entered into a transaction agreement (the "Transaction Agreement") with Kansas City Southern ("KCS") and its wholly-owned subsidiary The Kansas City Southern Railway Company ("KCSR") providing for, among other things, the formation of a joint venture between the parties relating to the ownership and improvement of the rail line between Meridian, Mississippi and Shreveport, Louisiana (the "JV Line"), which is a portion of the rail line between Dallas, Texas and Meridian known as the "Meridian Speedway." 
            Upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement, the parties will form a new joint venture limited liability company (the "JV Company") to which NS will contribute $300 million in cash in exchange for a 30% equity interest and KCS will contribute the assets comprising the JV Line in exchange for a 70% equity interest.  Pursuant to the terms of the Transaction Agreement, NS' $300 million investment in the JV Company will be used for mutually agreed-upon capital improvements to expand capacity, for capital maintenance projects and to reimburse KCS for certain previously-made capital expenditures on the JV Line.  The JV Company will be managed by a management committee composed of KCS and NS representatives, which will determine future capital projects and oversee operations.  As a minority member of the JV Company, NS will have customary protections with respect to certain actions of the venture. 
            Pursuant to the terms of the Transaction Agreement, the JV Company and KCSR will enter into an operating agreement pursuant to which KCSR will perform all railroad services on behalf of the JV Company.  The parties will also enter into a joint use agreement whereby NS will be the sole provider, pursuant to haulage rights at market-based rates, for all intermodal traffic moving on the JV Line that:
originates or terminates in the United States at or east of Meridian, Mississippi and enters or exits the Meridian Speedway at Meridian, Mississippi;
originates or terminates in the United States west of Fort Worth, Texas (including intermodal traffic originating by steamship line at a port along the west coast of the United States) and enters or exits the Meridian Speedway at Shreveport, Louisiana; and
does not consist of traffic originating or terminating at any existing station on the KCSR system (including any station where KCSR or the Texas Mexican Railway Company have trackage rights or access via reciprocal switch).
            KCS' rail subsidiaries will have trackage rights over the JV Line to move all traffic other than the NS traffic described above and any third-party traffic the JV Company is moving.  In addition, the parties will enter into a joint marketing agreement with respect to the movement of certain domestic intermodal containers that move over the Meridian Speedway with a lift or drop at KCS' Dallas Intermodal Terminal. 
            The transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement are subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
           
       Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01. 
            On December 2, 2005, NS and KCS issued a joint press release announcing their entry into the Transaction Agreement.  The text of such press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. 
            In addition, on December 2, 2005, KCS held an analyst presentation, by means of a conference call in which NS' chief financial officer participated, to discuss the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement.  A copy of certain of NS' presentation materials discussed on the call are included as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K. 
 
.        Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
                                                                        NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
                                                                        (Registrant)
                                                                        /s/ Dezora M. Martin
                                                                        _________________________________
                                                                        Name:  Dezora M. Martin                                                                         Title:    Corporate Secretary
Date:  December 2, 2005

KCS Media: Doniele Kane, 816-983-1372, doniele.c.kane@kcsr.com Investors: Bill Galligan, 816-983-1551, william.h.galligan@kcsr.com NS Media: Bob Fort, 757-629-2710, rcfort@nscorp.com Investors: Leanne Marilley, 757-629-2861, leanne.marilley@nscorp.com KCS, NS Reach Agreement to Improve Customer Service, Expand Capacity Kansas City, Mo., Norfolk, Va., December 2, 2005 - Kansas City Southern (KCS) (NYSE: KSU) and Norfolk Southern Corporation (NS) (NYSE: NSC) have agreed to form a joint venture that will increase capacity resulting in improved service on the Meridian Speedway between Meridian, Miss. and Shreveport, La. The Meridian Speedway is an important direct rail connection moving traffic between the southeast and southwest U.S. The increased capacity will provide both railroads with the ability to handle greater volumes and improve service for intermodal customers moving traffic between the southeast and southwest parts of the U.S., and for all other traffic including intermodal between the southeast and KCS' rail network including Mexico. KCS will contribute a 320-mile rail line between Meridian, Miss., and Shreveport, La. NS will invest $300 million in cash, substantially all of which will be used for capital improvements to increase capacity over a four-year period. The capital improvements will include signal systems, extended sidings and stretches of double track, upgrading track speed and other capacity enhancements to the line. KCS will contribute its rail line to the joint venture for a 70 percent interest, while NS will invest cash for a 30 percent interest. KCS will operate the line and provide service enhancements to NS, which will be the sole provider of certain intermodal transportation services over the line. Michael R. Haverty, KCS chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "This partnership with NS allows us to offer shippers fast, competitive rail service along the shortest rail route into the southeast from both Mexico and the southwest. In addition to connecting these rapidly growing regions, it will allow us to extend the reach of the Port of Lazaro Cardenas not only into Texas and the Midwest but directly into the southeast as well. For many years, the Meridian Speedway in Louisiana and Mississippi has had great potential. Now, with this partnership, it will realize that potential." Wick Moorman, NS president and chief executive officer, said, "This is an important initiative that will enhance fluidity of the nation's rail network and improve connections among rail carriers. We believe that the transaction represents an innovative way for carriers to work together to add critical rail capacity, and that it is one more indication of our collective commitment as an industry to pursue opportunities to improve customer service across North America." The parties will seek approval for the transaction with the U.S. Surface Transportation Board. Analysts and reporters will have an opportunity to ask questions about the joint venture at 12:30 p.m. EST/11:30 a.m. CST on Friday, December 2 by calling 800-955-1795 (U.S./Canada) or 706-643-0096 (International), conference ID#2989679. The discussion will be moderated by Mr. Haverty. KCS executive vice president and chief financial officer Ronald G. Russ and NS vice chairman and chief financial officer Hank Wolf also will participate. Headquartered in Kansas City, Mo., KCS is a transportation holding company that has railroad investments in the U.S., Mexico and Panama. Its primary U.S. holdings include The Kansas City Southern Railway Company and Texas Mexican Railway Company, serving the central and south central U.S. Its international holdings include TFM, S.A. de C.V., serving northeastern and central Mexico and the port cities of Lazaro Cardenas, Tampico and Veracruz, and a 50% interest in Panama Canal Railway Company, providing ocean-to-ocean freight and passenger service along the Panama Canal. KCS' North American rail holdings and strategic alliances are primary components of a NAFTA Railway system, linking the commercial and industrial centers of the U.S., Canada and Mexico. NS is one of the nation's premier transportation companies. Its Norfolk Southern Railway subsidiary operates approximately 21,300 route miles in 22 states, the District of Columbia and Ontario, Canada, serving every major container port in the eastern U.S. and providing superior connections to western rail carriers. NS operates the most extensive intermodal network in the East and is North America's largest rail carrier of automotive parts and finished vehicles. This press release includes forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date they are made, and neither KCS nor NSC undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond the control of KCS and NSC and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. Assumptions and factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements are more particularly described in KCS's and NSC's respective annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC. Documents filed with the SEC by KCS and NSC are accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, KCS' website at www.kcsi.com and NSC's website at www.nscorp.com. ###

Remarks by Henry C. Wolf
Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Norfolk
Southern Corporation NS/KCS Joint Venture Conference Call Friday, December 2, 2005
 
slide1: NS Logo
            Since 2000, Kansas City Southern has provided Norfolk Southern with haulage services for intermodal trains on KCS' "Meridian Speedway" between Meridian, Mississippi, and Dallas, Texas.  Norfolk Southern has had an outstanding working relationship with KCS over the Meridian Speedway.  Earlier this year, we commenced discussions to extend the current intermodal haulage arrangement, which ends in 2006, while at the same time we are seeking to increase capacity and improve service for all customers using the Speedway.  Yesterday, Norfolk Southern and KCS reached agreement, subject to the approval of the Surface Transportation Board, to form a joint venture involving the portion of the Speedway between Meridian and Shreveport, Louisiana.
slide 2: Map of Meridian Speedway
            To help provide geographical perspective, a portion of Norfolk Southern's network is shown on this map in green and a portion of Kansas City Southern's in red.  Narrowing the lens, the section of the Speedway involving the joint venture is highlighted in dark red.
slide 3: Transaction Terms
 
            Pursuant to the transaction, KCS will contribute its 320-mile rail line from Meridian to Shreveport in return for a 70 percent interest in the joint venture.  Norfolk Southern will contribute $300 million in cash for a 30 percent interest in the joint venture.  Not less than $260 million of Norfolk Southern's cash contribution will fund capital improvements between Meridian and Shreveport over a four-year period.  KCS may seek reimbursement for prior expenditures on the line or borrow up to $40 million of the remaining cash contribution.
Norfolk Southern will be the sole provider via a haulage agreement of domestic intermodal services on the Shreveport-to-Meridian portion of the Speedway to and from points in the United States west of Fort Worth (including transcontinental traffic originating at West Coast ports) and points east of Meridian.  KCS and Norfolk Southern will jointly market local Dallas intermodal traffic to and from Norfolk Southern's network in the East.  KCS will handle all other business over the line, including traffic local to the line and the KCS system and traffic to and from Mexico.
Other railroads using the Speedway today will continue to do so under the terms of their agreements with KCS.  The joint venture will be managed by a management committee composed of KCS and Norfolk Southern representatives, who will determine future capital projects and oversee service delivery.
slide 4: Transaction Business Benefits
 
            From a business standpoint, the purpose of the transaction is threefold.  , the transaction provides an extension of Norfolk Southern's current intermodal haulage service.  , the transaction will improve capacity and service for intermodal customers between the local Dallas market and Norfolk Southern's network in the East.  , the capital improvements will enhance speed and reliability, and provide additional capacity for all customers utilizing the Speedway.  We expect that all traffic moving over the Speedway will benefit from this improved service. 
First
Second
And finally
In 2005, NS expects to operate approximately 400,000 revenue moves between the Southwest and the New Orleans, Meridian and Memphis gateways, which is an increase of 45 percent compared with 2000 levels and represents a compounded annual growth rate of 7.4 percent.  This increase exceeds not only Norfolk Southern's overall intermodal growth rate but also the overall intermodal growth rate in the United States during the same five-year period.
We anticipate that we will see continued volume growth over our principal southeastern gateways.  To accommodate this growth while meeting customers' service expectations, Norfolk Southern is committed to expanding capacity over these gateways.  This transaction represents an effective means of achieving that goal going forward.
slide 5: Norfolk Southern Financial Impact
            We anticipate that the joint venture will be modestly dilutive on Norfolk Southern's earnings for the first couple of years since our $300 million investment will reduce interest income on Norfolk Southern.  However, as the investment is made and the improvements are completed, we expect that the dilution from the lost interest income will be offset by income from additional traffic.  As more capacity comes on line, business growth should offset the dilution and be nearly neutral by the end of the third year. Thereafter, we expect increasing accretion as the increased capacity continues to enable the joint venture to handle additional business with enhanced operating efficiency.
slide 6: Transaction Diagram
In summary, this last slide is a simplified diagram of the proposed transaction.  Norfolk Southern and KCS will seek STB approval within the next few months.  The closing of the transaction will be subject to customary conditions, including obtaining any required governmental and third-party consents.
      This transaction represents an important initiative that will 1) increase rail capacity, 2) improve rail connections among rail carriers, 3) improve the fluidity of the nation's rail network; and 4) demonstrate our collective commitment as an industry to pursue opportunities to improve customer service across North America.
            Thank you, and we will now take questions that you may have at this time.


