FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20080724093414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act  (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act         (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act         (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01   
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
                On July 22, 2008, the Board of Directors of Norfolk Southern Corporation approved amendments to the Directors' Deferred Fee Plan, Executives' Deferred Compensation Plan, Officers' Deferred Compensation Plan, Long Term Incentive Plan, Restricted Stock Unit Plan, and Supplemental Benefit Plan.   The amendments are designed to facilitate each plan's compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, to clarify certain plan provisions and to make administrative changes to the plans. A copy of each amended and restated plan is filed as an exhibit hereto.
Item 9.
01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
           
            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
                                                                        SIGNATURES
                                                                                                                                                (Registrant)
NORFOLK
SOUTHERN CORPORATION
                                                                        /s/ Howard D. McFadden
                                                                        _________________________________                                                                        Name:      Howard D. McFadden                                                                        Title:        Corporate Secretary
Date:  July 24, 2008
 
 
 
                                                           
EXHIBIT INDEX

                                                                             
                    
            The Directors' Deferred Fee Plan (the "Plan") as adopted and approved by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Norfolk Southern Corporation ("NS"), effective June 1, 1982, and as last amended effective January 1, 2009, makes available to NS directors a deferral election with respect to the directors' annual compensation and fees to provide for retirement and death benefits and thereby facilitate individual financial planning.
 
 
SECTION 1.  ADMINISTRATION
            The Plan Administrator shall be the Board.  The Board shall from time to time adopt rules and regulations determined to be necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the Plan.  The Board shall have the power to interpret the Plan, to supervise the maintenance of the deferred memorandum accounts of participants in the Plan and the method of distribution of those amounts credited to the deferred memorandum accounts pursuant to Section 4.
 
SECTION 2.  ELIGIBILITY
            Each NS director who is not an employee of NS (a "Non-Employee Director") shall be eligible to be a participant in the Plan.
 
SECTION 3.  DEFERRED COMPENSATION
            A Non-Employee Director may elect to have all or a specified part of the annual compensation and fees earned for service on the Board credited to a deferred memorandum account established pursuant to Section 4.  The Non-Employee Director making such an election (the "Participant") shall do so by filing with the Corporate Secretary on or before the date specified by the Plan Administrator (the "Election Deadline") an election on a form prescribed by the Corporate Secretary for the purpose of specifying the percentage of compensation and fees to be deferred and the distribution option under Section 6(b). 
            If the Participant was a Non-Employee Director on December 31 preceding the calendar year for which the compensation and fees to be deferred are earned, in no event shall the Election Deadline be later than such December 31.      The election shall apply only to compensation and fees earned for services performed in calendar years commencing after the Election Deadline.
            If the Participant either is elected to fill a vacancy on the Board or is elected at the annual meeting of shareholders, and the Participant was not a Non-Employee Director on the last day of the year preceding that Participant's election, in no event shall the Election Deadline be later than the end of the 30-day period following such Participant's first day of eligibility to participate in the Plan.  The election shall apply only to compensation and fees earned for services performed after the election.
            An election so made by a Participant shall continue from year to year, unless the Participant changes or revokes it by filing a new election with the Corporate Secretary prior to the Election Deadline.  The Participant's deferral election and distribution election in effect on the Election Deadline shall be irrevocable for the calendar year following the Election Deadline (or for the portion of the calendar year following the election, in the case of an election made during the initial 30-day period of participation in the Plan).  Until a Non-Employee Director makes a deferral election, the Non-Employee Director shall be deemed to have elected to receive the entire compensation and fees in cash.
 
SECTION 4.  DEFERRED MEMORANDUM ACCOUNT
            The amount of a Participant's annual compensation and fees which, pursuant to Section 3, the Participant has elected to receive on a deferred basis shall by appropriate bookkeeping entries be credited to that Participant's deferred memorandum fixed interest or variable earnings accounts (the "Accounts") in accordance with the Plan terms and the Participant's investment election applicable to such deferral. 
            The Board shall have the right to delegate to NS' chief financial officer the responsibility for supervising the maintenance of the Participants' respective Accounts and, subject to Section 6, the method of distribution of the amounts credited to the Accounts.  In addition, the Board shall have the right to delegate to NS' chief financial officer the responsibility to select Hypothetical Investment Options, subject to subsection (b) of this Section, made available to Participants solely for the purpose of valuing deferrals in the Variable Earnings Accounts.
            The Accounts shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement of amounts to be paid to the Participant under the Plan.  The Accounts shall not constitute or be treated as an escrow, trust fund, or any other type of funded account for ERISA or Internal Revenue Code ("Code") purposes and, moreover, contingent amounts credited thereto shall not be considered plan assets for ERISA purposes.  The Accounts merely provide a record of the bookkeeping entries relating to the contingent benefits that NS intends to provide to the Participant and thus reflect a mere unsecured promise to pay such amounts in the future.
            (a)    Fixed Interest Account.  Amounts deferred before January 1, 2001, shall be credited to a Participant's Fixed Interest Account as provided in this subsection.  Unless otherwise stated herein or determined by the Board, each Participant's Account shall also be credited at the end of each quarter by appropriate bookkeeping entries with an amount equivalent to interest ("Interest") on the amount credited to the Participant's Fixed Interest Account at the beginning of the quarter at a rate determined by the Participant's age at the time the deferral is made.  For purposes of determining the appropriate rates, a deferral is deemed to occur when the compensation and fees would otherwise have been paid.  Amounts deferred on or after January 1, 1994, shall accrue Interest based on the Participant's age at the time of deferral at the rates set forth below:
                                                                               
Age
Rate
           
                                         Under 45                               7%
                                              45-54                              10%
                                             5560                              11%
                                          Over 60                              12%
            Amounts deferred on or after January 1, 1992, and prior to January 1, 1994, shall accrue Interest based on the Participant's age at the time of deferral at the rates set forth below:
                                                                               
Age
Rate
           
                                         Under 45                              13%
                                             4554                               14%
                                             5560                               15%
                                          Over 60                               16%
            Amounts deferred on or after January 1, 1987, and prior to January 1, 1992, shall accrue Interest based on the Participant's age at the time of deferral at the rates set forth below:
                                                                               
Age
Rate
           
                                         Under 45                             15%
                                             4554                              16%
                                             5560                              17%
                                          Over 60                              18%
            Amounts deferred under the Plan prior to January 1, 1987, shall accrue Interest at a rate determined by the Participant's age on January 1, 1987, as if such amounts had been deferred on January 1, 1987.  Interest on each deferral shall continue to accrue at the rate determined by the Participant's age at the time the deferral is made until all benefits payable hereunder have been distributed to, or with respect to, the Participant.
            (b)    Variable Earnings Account.  Amounts deferred on or after January 1, 2001, shall be credited to a Participant's Variable Earnings Account as provided in this subsection.  Investment funds or benchmarks shall be selected from time to time by the Plan Administrator or its designee (as provided in this Section) and made available to Participants solely for the purpose of valuing deferrals.  Such funds or benchmarks shall be referred to as "Hypothetical Investment Options." 
            Unless otherwise stated herein or determined by the Board of Directors, an amount equivalent to earnings or losses ("Earnings") shall accrue on or be deducted from all deferrals, beginning when the compensation and fees would otherwise have been paid, in accordance with the Participant's selection of Hypothetical Investment Options. Earnings shall be determined based upon the Hypothetical Investment Option(s) elected by the Participant. If a Participant does not elect Hypothetical Investment Options for the deferrals, then Earnings shall be determined based on such Hypothetical Investment Options as may be designated by the Plan Administrator to apply in the absence of an election.  Participants will be required to elect a Hypothetical Investment Option(s) at the time a deferral election is made for amounts deferred on or after January 1, 2001, and such investment election will apply to all subsequent deferrals until the Participant changes such election.  Participants will be permitted at any time prior to the complete pay out of their Variable Earnings Account balance to elect to change their Hypothetical Investment Option(s) with respect to all or part of their Variable Earnings Account balances effective as soon as practicable following such election.  The procedure for electing to change a Hypothetical Investment Option(s) will be established by the Plan Administrator.  An election to change a Hypothetical Investment Option for part of a Variable Earnings Account balance must be made in increments of 1% of the Variable Earnings Account balance or a specified dollar amount.
            While a Participant's Accounts do not represent the Participant's ownership of, or any ownership interest in, any particular assets, the Participant's Variable Earnings Account shall be adjusted in accordance with the performance of the Hypothetical Investment Options chosen by the Participant.  Any cash earnings generated under a Hypothetical Investment Option (such as interest and cash dividends and distributions) shall be deemed to be reinvested in that Hypothetical Investment Option.  All notional acquisitions and dispositions of Hypothetical Investment Options which occur within a Participant's Variable Earnings Account, pursuant to the terms of the Plan, shall be deemed to occur at such times as the Plan Administrator shall determine to be administratively feasible in its sole discretion and the Participant's Variable Earnings Account shall be adjusted accordingly.  In the event of a Change in Control, the practices and procedures for determining any Earnings credited to any Participants' Variable Earnings Accounts following a Change in Control shall be made in a manner no less favorable to Participants than the practices and procedures employed under the Plan, or otherwise in effect, as of the date of the Change in Control. 
 
 
SECTION 5.  RESTRICTIONS
            The Participants shall have only those rights in respect of the amounts credited to their Accounts specifically set forth herein.
            No Participant may, prior to the distribution of funds pursuant to Section 6, sell, assign, transfer, distribute, pledge as collateral for a loan or as security for the performance of any obligation, exchange or otherwise dispose of any interest in the amounts credited to that Participant's Accounts. 
            The amounts credited to the Accounts shall remain assets of NS until distributed to Participants pursuant to Section 6.
 
 
SECTION 6.  DISTRIBUTION
            (a)    Fixed Interest Account.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 7, distributions of the amounts credited to a Participant's Fixed Interest Account shall be made in ten annual cash installments beginning with the first day of the calendar year immediately following the year when a Participant ceases to be an NS director by retirement or otherwise. 
(b)    Variable Earnings Account.  No later than the Election Deadline for each calendar year's deferrals, a Participant may elect one of the two distribution options described in this Section 6(b) for amounts credited to the Variable Earnings Account.  If a Participant fails to elect the time and form of distribution for a particular calendar year's deferrals by the Election Deadline, the Participant shall be deemed to have made the same distribution election as he last made for a calendar year's deferrals.  If the Participant has never elected the time and form of distribution of his deferral, the Participant's distribution will be made in one lump sum after the Participant experiences a  "separation from service" within the meaning of section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder for a reason other than the Participant's death (a "Separation From Service").
            The Participant must elect to have the benefit distributed either (i) beginning with the first day of the calendar year immediately following the year when the Participant experiences a Separation From Service, or (ii) upon the earlier of the Participant's Separation From Service or a specified date at least five (5) years but not more than fifteen (15) years after the calendar year in which the deferred amount is earned ("Specified Date").  If the Participant elects to receive the benefit upon Separation from Service, he may elect to have the benefit distributed to him in one lump sum or in annual installment payments that are distributed over a period of five (5), ten (10), or fifteen (15) years.  The amount of each annual installment payment shall be determined by dividing the balance credited to the Participant's Variable Earnings Account on each payment date by the number of installments remaining.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, a series of installment payments will be considered a single payment.  Any benefit which a Participant elects to receive on the earlier of Separation from Service or a Specified Date will be distributed in one lump sum. 
            For each calendar year's deferrals for which the Participant elected to have the benefit distributed on a Specified Date, the Participant shall be paid the amount in the Account for that calendar year's deferrals on the first day on or after the date selected or, if the Participant's Separation From Service is earlier than the Specified Date, on the first day following the date of the Separation From Service.  
            For a Participant who did not elect distribution on a Specified Date, the Participant shall be paid on the first day of the calendar year following the date the Participant experiences a Separation From Service, the amount in the Variable Earnings Account which is attributable to deferrals for which the Participant elected a lump sum distribution. 
            For distributions other than lump sum distributions, payments shall commence on the first day of the calendar year following the date the Participant experiences a Separation From Service and shall be made in installments on the first day of each year thereafter for each applicable deferral based on the distribution elections made by the Participant.  The annual installment payment for each applicable deferral shall be an amount equal to the remaining balance in the Participant's Account for that deferral, valued at the end of the calendar year preceding the installment payment, divided by the remaining number of annual payments not yet distributed for that deferral.
(c)    Death of the Participant.  The Participant may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries who shall receive a distribution of funds pursuant to this Section 6 in the event of the Participant's death.  In the absence of such designation, or if the beneficiary predeceases the Participant, the beneficiary shall be the Participant's surviving spouse or, if the Participant does not have a surviving spouse, the Participant's estate.  In order to be effective, a Participant's designation of a beneficiary must be on file with NS before the Participant's death.  Any such designation may be revoked and a new designation submitted by the Participant at any time before his death without the consent of the previously designated beneficiary.
            Upon the death of a Participant prior to the expiration of the period during which the deferred amounts are payable, the balance of the deferred fees and Earnings credited to the Fixed Interest Account and Variable Earnings Account shall be payable to the beneficiary or beneficiaries in full on the first day of the calendar year following the year in which the Participant dies.
             (d)    Administrative Adjustments in Payment Date.  A payment under Section 6(b) or 6(c) is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made on the due date specified by the Plan, or on a later date that is either (i) in the same calendar year (for a payment whose specified due date is on or before September 30), or (ii) by the 15th day of the third calendar month following the date specified by the Plan (for a payment whose specified due date is on or after October 1).  A payment also is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made not more than 30 days before the due date specified by the Plan.  A Participant or beneficiary may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of a payment made in reliance on the administrative rules in this paragraph.
 
 
SECTION 7.  CHANGE IN CONTROL
            If, on the date of a Change in Control (as defined herein) or a 409A Change in Control (as defined herein), a Participant who was serving as a Non-Employee Director of NS on the day immediately preceding the date of the Change in Control or 409A Change in Control experiences a Separation From Service, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6, such Participant shall receive the following:
            (a)    For the Fixed Interest Account, a lump-sum cash payment equal to the present value on the Participant's last day of service as a Non-Employee Director, using a discount rate of 4.5 percent, of any stream of installment payments that the Participant would have received had the Participant served as a Non-Employee Director until the latest date permitted under the Retirement Policy for Non-Employee Directors as in effect on the day before the Change in Control; and
(b)    For the Variable Earnings Account, in the event of a 409A Change in Control, a lump-sum cash payment equal to the present value on the Participant's last day of services as a Non-Employee Director, using a discount rate of 4.5 percent.  The present value will be calculated assuming that the Participant would have served as a Non-Employee Director until the latest date permitted under the Retirement Policy for Non-Employee Directors as in effect on the day before the Change in Control, and the projected Earnings used to determine such present value will be calculated in accordance with the Interest rate specified in Section 4(a) based on the Participant's age immediately preceding the date of a Change in Control and applied to the Participant's Variable Earnings Account balance on such date.  In the event of a Change in Control that is not a 409A Change in Control, the benefit shall be calculated as described above except that any portion of the Participant's deferred compensation benefit that is not a Grandfathered Benefit under Section 15, exclusive of any projected Earnings as described in this section, shall be paid at the time and in the form the benefit would have been paid absent a Change in Control.      
            Any payment made pursuant to this Section 7 will be in full satisfaction of all amounts credited to the Participant's Accounts.       
            A Change in Control shall occur upon any of the following circumstances or events:
            (i)         NS consummates a merger or other similar control-type transaction or transactions (however denominated or effectuated) with another corporation or other entity (Combination), and immediately thereafter less than eighty percent (80%) of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of such corporation or entity is held in the aggregate by the holders of securities entitled, immediately prior to such Combination, to vote generally in the election of NS directors (Voting Stock); 
            (ii)        NS consummates any stockholder-approved consolidation or dissolution (however denominated or effectuated) pursuant to a recommendation of the Board;
            (iii)       At any time, Continuing Directors (as herein defined) shall not constitute a majority of the members of the Board ("Continuing Director" means (i) each individual who has been a director of NS for at least twenty-four (24) consecutive months before such time and (ii) each individual who was nominated or elected to be a director of NS by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election); or
            (iv)       NS sells all or substantially all of its assets to any other corporation or other entity, and less than eighty percent (80%) of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of such corporation or entity immediately after such transaction is held in the aggregate by the holders of Voting Stock immediately prior to such sale.
A Change in Control under Section 409A of the Code (a "409A Change in Control") shall occur upon any of the following circumstances or events:
            (i)         A person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires ownership of stock of NS that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of NS; 
            (ii)        A person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of NS possessing thirty percent (30%) or more of the total voting power of NS;
            (iii)       Continuing Directors (as herein defined) no longer constitute a majority of the members of the Board ("Continuing Director" means (i) each individual who has been a director of NS for at least twelve (12) consecutive months before such time and (ii) each individual who was nominated or elected to be a director of NS by at least a majority of the directors at the time of such nomination or election); or
            (iv)       A person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from NS that have a total gross fair market value equal to forty percent (40%) or more of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of NS immediately before such acquisition. 
For purposes of a 409A Change in Control, persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock or similar business transaction with NS.  The definition of a 409A Change in Control shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with section 409A of the Code.
 
 
  
SECTION 8.  RECALCULATION EVENTS
        
            NS' commitment to accrue and pay Interest and Earnings as provided in Section 4 is facilitated by the purchase of corporateowned life insurance purchased on the lives of eligible Participants.  If the Board, in its sole discretion, determines that any change whatsoever in Federal, State or local law, or in its application or interpretation, has materially affected, or will materially affect, the ability of NS to recover the cost of providing the benefits otherwise payable under the Plan, then, if the Board so elects, a Recalculation Event shall be deemed to have occurred.  If a Recalculation Event occurs, then Interest and/or Earnings shall be recalculated and restated using a lower rate of Interest and/or Earnings determined by the Board, but which shall be not less than one-half (1/2) the rate of Earnings provided for in Section 4(b) or onehalf (1/2) the rate of Interest provided in Section 4(a), as applicable. 
 
 
SECTION 9.  AMENDMENTS
 
            The Board in its sole discretion may at any time modify or amend any provisions of the Plan, or suspend or terminate the Plan.  However, except as otherwise provided in Section 8, no modification, amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan may, without the Participant's consent, apply to or affect the rights of a Participant in respect of amounts credited to the Participant's Account for any month ended prior to the effective date of that modification, amendment, suspension or termination.  In no event shall a termination of the Plan accelerate the distribution of amounts deferred under the Plan in calendar year 2005 and succeeding years, except to the extent permitted in regulations or other guidance under section 409A of the Code and expressly provided in the resolution terminating the Plan.
 
 
SECTION 10.  NATURE AND SOURCE OF PAYMENTS
            The obligation to make payments hereunder with respect to each Participant shall constitute a liability of NS to the Participant and any beneficiaries in accordance with the terms of the Plan.  NS may establish one or more grantor trusts within the United States to which NS may transfer such assets as NS determines in its sole discretion to assist NS to accumulate assets that can be used to pay benefits under the Plan.  While NS generally reserves the right to establish or fund any such grantor trust at any time, it shall not fund such trust in connection with a change in NS' financial health to the extent that such funding would not comply with the requirements of section 409A of the Code.  The provisions of the Plan shall govern the rights of NS, Participants and the creditors of NS to the assets transferred to the trust.  NS' obligations under the Plan may be satisfied with trust assets distributed pursuant to the terms of the trust, and any such distribution shall reduce NS' obligations under this Plan.
            Participants and beneficiaries shall stand in the position of unsecured creditors of NS, and all rights hereunder and under any trust are subject to the claims of creditors of NS.
 
 
SECTION 11.  EXPENSES OF ADMINISTERING PLAN
 
            All expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by NS, and no part thereof shall be charged against the benefit of any Participant, except the costs of the Hypothetical Investment Options in the Variable Earnings Account, which shall be charged against the value of deferrals measured against those funds.
 
 
SECTION 12.  FACILITY OF PAYMENT
 
            If the Board shall find that any individual to whom any amount is payable under the Plan is unable to care for his or her affairs because of illness or accident or is a minor or other person under legal disability, any payment due such individual (unless a prior claim for such payment shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian, committee, or other legal representative) may be paid to the spouse, a child, a parent, or a brother or sister of such individual, or to any other person deemed by the Board to have incurred expenses of such individual, in such manner and proportions as the Board may determine.  Any such payment shall be a complete discharge of the liabilities of NS with respect thereto under the Plan.
 
 
SECTION 13.  CONTINUED SERVICE
 
            Nothing contained herein or in a deferral agreement shall be construed as conferring upon any Participant the right nor imposing upon the Participant the obligation to continue in the service of NS in any capacity.
 
 
SECTION 14.  DISPUTED QUESTIONS
 
            Any disputed question arising under the Plan, including questions of construction and interpretation, shall be determined conclusively and finally by the Board.
 
 
SECTION 15.  EFFECTIVE DATE
 
            The Plan became effective on June 1, 1982, and was last amended effective January 1, 2009.  The Plan, as hereby amended and restated, is effective with respect to amounts that were not earned and vested (within the meaning of section 409A of the Code) before January 1, 2005, and any earnings on such amounts.  Amounts earned and vested (within the meaning of section 409A of the Code) before January 1, 2005, and earnings on such amounts (collectively, "Grandfathered Amounts"), remain subject to the terms of the Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004.  For recordkeeping purposes, the Company will account separately for Grandfathered Amounts.
 
 
SECTION 16.  INTERNAL REVENUE CODE SECTION 409A
            The Plan is intended, and shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of section 409A of the Code.  NS does not warrant that the Plan will comply with section 409A of the Code with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment, however.  In no event shall NS, its officers, directors, employees, parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or beneficiary as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy the requirements of section 409A of the Code, or as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy any other applicable requirements for the deferral of tax.

.
ARTICLE I.  NAME AND PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
The name of the plan is the Norfolk Southern Corporation Executives' Deferred Compensation Plan (the Plan), which for deferrals on or after January 1, 2001, is the successor to the Norfolk Southern Corporation Officers' Deferred Compensation Plan.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide benefits to those officers of Norfolk Southern Corporation (the Corporation) or a Participating Subsidiary who elect to participate in the Plan. 
 
 
.
ARTICLE II.  DEFINITIONS
.  The total of the amount of Deferrals by a Participant together with Earnings as provided in Article V.  The Account shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement of amounts to be paid to the Participant under the Plan.  The Account shall not constitute or be treated as an escrow, trust fund, or any other type of funded account for ERISA or Internal Revenue Code purposes and, moreover, contingent amounts credited thereto shall not be considered "plan assets" for ERISA purposes.  The Account merely provides a record of the bookkeeping entries relating to the contingent benefits that the Corporation intends to provide to Participant and thus reflects a mere unsecured promise to pay such amounts in the future.
Account
.  The "Deferral Agreement" between each Participant and the Corporation.
Agreement
.  The person or persons designated as Beneficiary pursuant to Article XII.
Beneficiary
.  The Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board of Directors
.  A Change in Control occurs upon any of the following circumstances or events:
Change in Control
(1) The Corporation consummates a merger or other similar control-type transaction or transactions (however denominated or effectuated) with another Corporation or other Person (including any "affiliate" or "associate" of any Person, all as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) (Combination), and immediately thereafter less than eighty percent (80%) of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of such corporation or Person is held in the aggregate by the holders of securities entitled, immediately prior to such Combination, to vote generally in the election of directors of the Corporation (Voting Stock);
(2) The Corporation consummates any stockholder-approved consolidation or dissolution (however denominated or effectuated) pursuant to a recommendation of the Board of Directors;
(3) At any time, Continuing Directors (as herein defined) shall not constitute a majority of the members of the Board of Directors ("Continuing Director" means (i) each individual who has been a director of the Corporation for at least twenty-four consecutive months before such time and (ii) each individual who was nominated or elected to be a director of the Corporation by at least two thirds of the Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election);
(4) The Corporation sells all or substantially all of its assets to any other corporation or other Person, and less than eighty percent (80%) of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of such corporation or Person immediately after such transaction is held in the aggregate by the holders of Voting Stock immediately prior to such sale;
(5) A report is filed on Schedule 13D or Schedule 14D-1 (or any successor schedule, form or report), pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, disclosing that any Person has become the Beneficial Owner (any Person who, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder, would be deemed beneficially to own Voting Stock) of twenty (20) or more percent of the voting power of Voting Stock; or
(6) The Board of Directors determines by a majority vote that, because of the occurrence, or the threat of imminence of the occurrence, of another event or situation in import or effects similar to the foregoing, those who have accepted an agreement providing certain rights and benefits upon termination of employment following a Change in Control are entitled to its protections. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing, unless otherwise determined in a specific case by majority vote of the Board of Directors, a Change in Control for purposes of this Plan shall not be deemed to have occurred solely because (a) the Corporation, (b) an entity of which the Corporation is the direct or indirect Beneficial Owner of 50 or more percent of the voting securities or (c) any Corporation-sponsored employee stock ownership plan or any other employee benefit plan of the Corporation either files or becomes obligated to file a report or a proxy statement under or in response to Schedule 13D, Schedule 14D-1, Form 8-K, or Schedule 14A (or any successor schedule, form or report or item therein) under the Exchange Act, disclosing beneficial ownership by it of shares of Voting Stock, whether in excess of 20 percent or otherwise, or because the Corporation reports that a change in control of the Corporation has or may have occurred or will or may occur in the future by reason of such beneficial ownership.
.  The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Committee
.  The fixed salary payable in the form of cash (including vacation pay) of the Participant before any reduction (1) for pre-tax contributions to the Thrift and Investment Plan of Norfolk Southern Corporation and Participating Subsidiary Companies, (2) for contributions to the Pre-Tax Transportation Plan of Norfolk Southern Corporation and Participating Subsidiary Companies, (3) for pre-tax contributions to the Norfolk Southern Corporation Comprehensive Benefits Plan, and (4) for any deferrals under this Plan.
Compensation
.  A Deferred Bonus and/or deferred Compensation for each Plan Year which is "credited" to a Participant's Account.
Deferral
.  That amount set forth in the Agreement which shall be deferred from a Participant's MIP incentive award (and any other cash incentive award payable to participants in MIP) or EMIP incentive award (and any other cash incentive award approved by the Board of Directors and payable to participants in EMIP), or the bonus program of a Participating Subsidiary, if the deferral of such incentive award or bonus under the Plan is authorized by the Corporation.
Deferred Bonus
.  A medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months and which
Disability
(i)         renders the Participant unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity; or
(ii)        enables the Participant to be eligible for a disability benefit under the Long-Term Disability Plan of Norfolk Southern Corporation and Participating Subsidiaries, as amended from time to time, or under any such similar plan of a Participating Subsidiary, provided that the Participant has received benefit payments under such plan for a period of not less than 3 months.
.  A date specified by the Plan Administrator.
Election Deadline
.  Any employee of the Corporation or a Participating Subsidiary who is not covered by a collective bargaining agreement and who is eligible to participate in the MIP, the EMIP, or any authorized bonus program of a Participating Subsidiary.
Eligible Employee
.  Norfolk Southern Corporation Executive Management Incentive Plan or successor plan.
EMIP
.  Investment funds or benchmarks, as may be selected from time to time by the Plan Administrator, made available to Participants solely for purposes of valuing Deferrals.
Hypothetical Investment Options
.  Norfolk Southern Corporation Management Incentive Plan or successor plan.
MIP
. Any Eligible Employee of the Corporation or a Participating Subsidiary who elects to make a Deferral under Article IV of the Plan.
Participant
.  Each subsidiary or affiliated company of the Corporation which adopts the Plan and is approved for participation in the Plan as provided in Article XVIII.
Participating Subsidiary
.  The Vice President - Human Resources of the Corporation, or the successor officer who performs substantially similar duties.
Plan Administrator
  Any calendar year during which deferrals under this Plan are made.
Plan Year.
.  A Participant's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.
Separation from Service
.  A grantor trust of the type commonly referred to as a "rabbi trust" created to assist the Corporation and the Participating Subsidiaries to accumulate assets that can be used to pay benefits under the Plan. 
Trust
 
 
.
ARTICLE III.  ADMINISTRATION
 
The Plan Administrator shall administer, construe, and interpret this Plan and, from time to time, adopt such rules and regulations and make such recommendations to the Committee concerning Plan changes as are deemed necessary to ensure effective implementation of this Plan.  The administration, construction, and interpretation by the Plan Administrator may be appealed to the Committee, and the decision of the Committee shall be final and conclusive, except that any claim for benefits with respect to a Participant shall be subject to the claims procedure set forth in Section 503 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.  The Plan Administrator may correct errors and, so far as practicable, may adjust any benefit or payment or credit accordingly.  Neither the Plan Administrator nor any member of the Committee shall be liable for any act done or determination made in good faith.
 
 
.
ARTICLE IV.  ELECTIONS
(a)          Any Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.  A Participant may elect to defer up to 25% of his monthly Compensation.  An Eligible Employee who elects to become a Participant in the Plan and defer a portion of his Compensation thereby consents to the reduction in his Compensation as specified in the Agreement.  An Eligible Employee may elect to defer, either in whole or in part, in increments of twenty-five percent (25%), any eligible incentive bonus which may be awarded to him pursuant to MIP, EMIP or any authorized bonus program of a Participating Subsidiary.  A Participant who elects to defer any of his incentive bonus thereby consents to a reduction in his bonus by the Deferred Bonus as specified in the Agreement. 
Deferral Elections.
            Any deferral election with respect to monthly Compensation must be made in the manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator and in no event later than the Election Deadline.  Any deferral election with respect to a Deferred Bonus must be made in the manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator and at the time specified in the plan under which the incentive bonus is awarded, but in no event later than the Election Deadline.  If the Participant fails to make an election prior to the Election Deadline, then the Participant will not be eligible to defer his Compensation or any portion of his incentive bonus earned during the Plan Year.   
            (b)          If, pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder, a Participant receives a hardship distribution from any 401(k) plan sponsored by the Corporation or by any other employer required to be aggregated with the Corporation under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Participant's deferral election in effect at the time of the hardship withdrawal, if any, shall be cancelled prospectively so that no further deferrals of monthly Compensation or incentive bonus shall occur during the period that ends six (6) months after the receipt of the hardship distribution.  A Participant whose deferral election is canceled pursuant to this Paragraph (b) may elect to defer his monthly Compensation or his incentive bonus in the amount and manner described in Paragraphs (a) and (d) of this Article IV.  An election to defer monthly Compensation that is made pursuant to this Paragraph (b) shall be effective only with respect to Compensation that is earned after the expiration of the six-month period described in the first sentence of this Paragraph.
Automatic Cancellation of Deferral Election for 401(k) Hardship Withdrawal.
            (c)          No later than the Election Deadline, the Participant must elect one of the following two distribution options.  The Participant must elect to have the benefit distributed (i) at the earlier of Separation from Service or Disability, or (ii) at a distribution date which is the earliest of Separation from Service, Disability, or a specified date at least five (5) years but not more than fifteen (15) years after the Plan Year has ended (a "Specified Date").  If the Participant elects to receive the benefit upon the earlier of Separation from Service or Disability, he may elect to have the benefit distributed to him in one lump sum or in annual installment payments over a period of five (5), ten (10), or fifteen (15) years.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, a series of installment payments will be considered a single payment.  Any benefit which a Participant elects to receive on the earliest of Separation from Service, Disability, or a Specified Date will be distributed in one lump sum.  If the Participant fails to elect the time and form of distribution of his  Deferral before the Election Deadline, the Participant's distribution will be made at the earlier of Separation from Service or Disability in one lump sum.  If a distribution is being made due to Separation from Service, to the extent the distribution is attributable to Deferrals of amounts earned or vested after December 31, 2004, no distribution may be made before the date which is six months after the date of Separation from Service. 
Distribution Elections.
            (d)        .  A Participant must file a deferral election and distribution election for each year's Deferral.  The Participant must make each election by the Election Deadline.   The Election Deadline must satisfy the following requirements:
Election Deadline
            (1)        .  To the extent that an incentive bonus qualifies as "performance-based compensation" as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Election Deadline shall not be later than the date that is six months before the end of the performance period, provided that no deferral election may be made with respect to any portion of the compensation that has become readily ascertainable.
Performance-Based Compensation
            (2)        .  For deferrals of Compensation or an incentive bonus that is not described in subparagraphs (1), above, the Election Deadline shall be no later than December 31 preceding the Plan Year in which begins the period of service for which the Compensation or incentive bonus is earned.
Other Compensation
            A Participant may change or revoke the deferral election by filing a new election form with the Plan Administrator at any time before the Election Deadline.  The Participant's deferral election and distribution election in effect on the Election Deadline shall be irrevocable.  Until a valid deferral election is made by an Eligible Employee, the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to have elected to receive Compensation and any incentive bonus on the regular payment date, without deferral.
 
 
.
ARTICLE V.  EARNINGS EQUIVALENT
    (a)         Unless otherwise stated herein or determined by the Board of Directors, an amount equivalent to earnings or losses ("Earnings") shall accrue on or be deducted from all Deferrals in accordance with the Participant's selection of Hypothetical Investment Options.  For purposes of calculating the appropriate Earnings only, the Deferred Bonus is deemed to be invested in the Hypothetical Investment Options on the date on which the related incentive bonus is paid.  Earnings shall be determined based upon the Hypothetical Investment Option(s) elected by the Participant.  If a Participant does not elect Hypothetical Investment Options for the Deferrals, then Earnings shall be determined based on such Hypothetical Investment Options as may be designated by the Plan Administrator to apply in the absence of an election.  Participants will be required to elect one or more Hypothetical Investment Options at the time each Deferral election is made.  Participants will be permitted at any time prior to the complete pay out of their Account balances to elect to change their Hypothetical Investment Option(s) with respect to all or part of their Account balances effective as soon as practicable following such election.  The procedure for electing to change a Hypothetical Investment Option(s) will be established by the Plan Administrator.  An election to change a Hypothetical Investment Option for part of an Account balance must be made in increments of 1% of the Account balance or a specified dollar amount.
Adjustment of Participant Accounts.
    While a Participant's Account does not represent the Participant's ownership of, or any ownership interest in, any particular assets, the Participant's Account shall be adjusted in accordance with the Hypothetical Investment Options chosen by the Participant.  Any Earnings generated under a Hypothetical Investment Option (such as interest and cash dividends and distributions) shall be deemed to be reinvested in that Hypothetical Investment Option.  All notional acquisitions and dispositions of Hypothetical Investment Options which occur within a Participant's Account, pursuant to the terms of the Plan, shall be deemed to occur at such times as the Plan Administrator shall determine to be administratively feasible in its sole discretion and the Participant's Account shall be adjusted accordingly.  In the event of a Change in Control, the practices and procedures for determining any Earnings credited to any Participants' Accounts following a Change in Control shall be made in a manner no less favorable to Participants than the practices and procedures employed under the Plan, or otherwise in effect, as of the date of the Change in Control. 
    In lieu of an entitlement to receive payments under the terms of this Plan, in the event of a Change in Control, any deferred compensation equivalent payment made pursuant to a Change in Control Agreement that was entered into before such Change in Control shall be determined by projecting the Earnings a Participant would have received had the Participant worked until normal retirement age at age 65 or, if greater, had the Participant retired on his or her Termination Date (as defined in the applicable Change in Control Agreement).  The rate of returnfor such projected Earnings shall be determined in accordance with the schedule below, based on the Participant's age immediately preceding the Termination Date, and shall be applied to the Participant's Account balance on the Termination Date (as defined in the applicable Change in Control Agreement):
  
     (b)       .  The Participant shall at all times be one hundred percent (100%) vested in his or her Account, as well as in any appreciation (or depreciation) specifically attributable to such Account due to Earnings.
Vesting
 
ARTICLE VI.  BENEFITS
(a) : For each Deferral for which the Participant elected to have the benefit distributed in this manner, the Participant shall be paid the amount in his or her Account either in a lump sum or in installments as the Participant elected at the time of Deferral. 
    
Distribution at the Earlier of Separation from Service or Disability
    For lump sum distributions, except as provided in the following sentence, the Participant shall be paid on the first day of the calendar year following Separation from Service or Disability, the portion of his or her Account which is attributable to Deferrals for which the Participant elected lump sum distribution at Separation from Service or Disability.  If the Participant defers an incentive bonus and Separates from Service or becomes Disabled in the year before the year such incentive bonus would be paid in the absence of such deferral, then the lump sum distribution with respect to such bonus shall be paid on the first day of the second calendar year following the Separation from Service or Disability.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a distribution is being made due to Separation from Service, to the extent the amount in a Participant's Account is attributable to Deferrals of amounts earned or vested after December 31, 2004, and related earnings thereon, the distribution shall be made on the later of the date which is six months after the date of Separation from Service or the applicable date specified in the first two sentences of this paragraph.
    For distributions other than lump sum distributions, except as provided in the following sentence, payments shall commence on the first day of the calendar year following such Separation from Service or Disability and shall be made in annual installments on January 1 of each year for each applicable Deferral over the elected pay out period for that Deferral.   If the Participant defers an incentive bonus and Separates from Service or becomes Disabled in the year before the year such incentive bonus would be paid in the absence of such deferral, then the installment payments with respect to such bonus shall commence on the first day of the second calendar year following the Separation from Service or Disability, and shall be made in annual installments on January 1 of each year thereafter over the elected pay period for that Deferral.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a distribution is being made due to Separation from Service, to the extent the amount in a Participant's Account is attributable to Deferrals of amounts earned or vested after December 31, 2004, and related earnings thereon, the initial distribution shall be made on the later of the date which is six months after the date of Separation from Service or the applicable date specified in the first two sentences of this paragraph.
    The annual installment payment for each applicable Deferral shall be an amount equal to the remaining balance in the Participant's Account for the Deferral, valued at the end of the calendar year preceding the installment payment, divided by the remaining number of annual payments not yet distributed for that Deferral. 
    (b) : For each Deferral for which the Participant elected to have the benefit distributed on the earliest of Separation from Service, Disability, or a Specified Date, except as provided in the following sentence, the Participant shall be paid the amount in his or her Account for that Deferral in a lump sum on the first business day after the earliest of the Specified Date, Separation from Service, or Disability.  If the Participant defers an incentive bonus and elects to have the benefit distributed at the earliest of Separation from Service, Disability or a Specified Date, and the Participant Separates from Service or becomes Disabled in the year before the year such incentive bonus would be paid in the absence of such deferral, then the lump sum distribution with respect to such bonus shall be made on the first day of the second calendar year following the Separation from Service or Disability.  If a distribution is being made due to Separation from Service, to the extent the amount in a Participant's Account is attributable to Deferrals earned after December 31, 2004, the distribution shall be made on the date which is six months after the date of Separation from Service.
Distribution at the Earliest of Separation from Service, Disability or a Specified Date
    (c) : If a Participant dies either while in active service or after Separation from Service or Disability, the Corporation shall pay the amount of the Participant's Account to the Participant's Beneficiary in a single lump sum on the first day of the calendar month following the date of death.
Death
    (d) : Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article VI, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may authorize and direct the Corporation to distribute the amount in a Participant's Account in a lump sum or over a period other than that provided for in this Article VI, and to charge such payments against the Participant's Account.  Such accelerated distribution may be made only in the event of an unforeseeable financial emergency resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, the Participant's Beneficiary, or a dependent (as defined in Section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, without regard to section 152(b)(1), (b)(2) or (d)(1)(B)) of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.  Such an accelerated distribution shall be permitted only to the extent that the financial emergency is not and may not be relieved by reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation would not cause severe financial hardship), or by the cessation of deferrals under the Plan, and only in an amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the financial emergency; provided, that all amounts due to a Participant or Beneficiary under this Plan shall in all events be paid to the Participant or Beneficiary by the end of the appropriate period referred to in this Article VI.  No Participant or Beneficiary who is also a member of the Committee shall participate in any decision of the Committee to make accelerated payments under this Article VI. 
Lump Sum or Other Settlement
    (e) A payment is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made on the due date specified by the Plan, or on a later date that is either (i) in the same calendar year (for a payment whose specified due date is on or before September 30), or (ii) by the 15 day of the third calendar month following the date specified by the Plan (for a payment whose specified due date is on or after October 1).  A payment is also treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made not more than 30 days before the due date specified by the Plan, provided that a payment that is delayed until six months after the Participant's Separation from Service shall not be made earlier than such date.  A Participant or Beneficiary may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of a payment made in reliance on the administrative rules in this paragraph.
Administrative Adjustments in Payment Date. 
th
 
ARTICLE VII.  NATURE AND SOURCE OF PAYMENTS
    The obligation to pay benefits under Article VI with respect to each Participant shall constitute a liability of the Corporation to the Participant and, after the Participant's death, to any Beneficiaries in accordance with the terms of the Plan. The Corporation may establish one or more Trusts within the United States to which the Corporation may transfer such assets as the Corporation determines in its sole discretion to assist in meeting its obligations under the Plan.  The provisions of the Plan and the Agreement shall govern the rights of a Participant to receive distributions pursuant to the Plan.  While the Corporation generally reserves the right to establish or fund any Trust at any time, it shall not fund such Trust in connection with an adverse change in the financial health of the Corporation or a Participating Subsidiary to the extent that such funding would not comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The provisions of the Trust shall govern the rights of the Corporation, Participants and the creditors of the Corporation to the assets transferred to the Trust.  The Corporation's obligations under the Plan may be satisfied with Trust assets distributed pursuant to the terms of the Trust, and any such distribution shall reduce the Corporation's obligations under this Plan. 
                Participants and Beneficiaries shall stand in the position of unsecured creditors of the Corporation, the Plan constitutes a mere promise by the employer to make benefit payments in the future, and all rights hereunder and under any Trust are subject to the claims of creditors of the Corporation. 
 
ARTICLE VIII.  EXPENSES OF ADMINISTRATION
 
    All expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Corporation, and no part thereof shall be charged against the benefit of any Participant, except the costs of the Hypothetical Investment Options, which shall be charged against the value of Deferrals measured against those funds.
 
ARTICLE IX.  AMENDMENT TO AND TERMINATION OF PLAN
 
    The Corporation reserves the right at any time through written action of its chief executive officer or by a resolution duly adopted by its Board of Directors to amend this plan in any manner or to terminate it at any time, except that no such amendment or termination shall deprive a Participant or his Beneficiary of any rights hereunder theretofore legally accrued, and no such termination shall be effective for the year in which such resolution is adopted.  In no event shall a termination of the Plan accelerate the distribution of amounts deferred under the Plan in calendar year 2005 and succeeding years, except to the extent permitted in regulations or other guidance under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and expressly provided in the resolution terminating the Plan. 
 
 
ARTICLE X. RECALCULATION EVENTS
   
    The Corporation's commitment to accrue and pay Earnings as provided in Article V may be facilitated by the purchase of corporate-owned life insurance on the lives of eligible Participants.  If the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, determines that any change whatsoever in Federal, State, or local law, or in its application or interpretation, has materially affected, or will materially affect, the ability of the Corporation to recover the cost of providing the benefits otherwise payable under the Plan, then, if the Board of Directors so elects, a Recalculation Event shall be deemed to have occurred.  If a Recalculation Event occurs, then Earnings shall be recalculated and restated using a lower rate of Earnings determined by the Board of Directors, but which shall be not less than the lesser of one half () the rate of Earnings provided for in Article V or 7%.
 
 
ARTICLE XI.  GOVERNING LAW
 
    This Plan and the Agreements are subject to the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
 
ARTICLE XII.  DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY
 
    For the purpose of this Plan, a Beneficiary shall be either (1) the named Beneficiary of the Participant in the Norfolk Southern Corporation Officers Deferred Compensation Plan or Beneficiaries subsequently designated as hereinafter provided for by the Participant, or (2) in the absence of any such designation, his or her estate.  A Participant may designate both primary and contingent Beneficiaries.  A Participant may revoke or change any designation.  To be effective, the designation of a named Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, or any change in or revocation of any designation, must be on a form provided by the Corporation, signed by the Participant and filed with the Office of the Plan Administrator prior to the death of such Participant.  Any such designation, change or revocation shall not invalidate any cash payment made or other action taken by the Corporation pursuant to the Plan prior to its receipt by the Corporation.  The determination by the Corporation of a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, or the identity thereof, or evidence satisfactory to the Corporation shall be conclusive as to the liability of the Corporation and any payment made in accordance therewith shall discharge the Corporation of all its obligations under the Plan for such payment.
 
 
ARTICLE XIII.  SUCCESSORS, MERGERS, CONSOLIDATIONS
 
    The terms and conditions of this Plan and each Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and bind the Corporation, the Participants, their successors, assigns, and personal representatives.  If substantially all the assets of the Corporation are acquired by another corporation or entity or if the Corporation is merged into, or consolidated with, another corporation or entity, then the obligations created hereunder and as a result of the Corporation's acceptance of Agreements shall be obligations of the successor corporation or entity.
 
ARTICLE XIV.  WITHHOLDING FOR TAXES
 
    The Participant agrees as a condition of participation hereunder that the Corporation may withhold applicable Federal, State, and local income taxes and Social Security, Medicare, or Railroad Retirement taxes from any distribution or benefit paid hereunder.
 
 
ARTICLE XV.  NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS
    No benefit under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt at such shall be void; nor shall any such benefit be in any way subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements, or torts of the person who shall be entitled to such benefit; nor shall it be subject to attachment or legal process for or against such person.
 
ARTICLE XVI.  FACILITY OF PAYMENT
 
    If the Plan Administrator shall find that any individual to whom any amount is payable under the Plan is unable to care for his affairs because of illness or accident, or is a minor or other person under legal disability, any payment due such individual (unless a prior claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian, committee, or other legal representative) may be paid to the spouse, a child, a parent, or a brother or sister of such individual or to any other person deemed by the Plan Administrator to have incurred expenses of such individual, in such manner and proportions as the Plan Administrator may determine.  Any such payment shall be a complete discharge of the liabilities of the Corporation with respect thereto under the Plan or the Agreement.
 
ARTICLE XVII.  CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT
 
    Nothing contained herein or in an Agreement shall be construed as conferring upon any Participant the right nor imposing upon him the obligation to continue in the employment of the Corporation or a Participating Subsidiary in any capacity.
 
 
ARTICLE XVIII.  PARTICIPATION BY SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
 
    Conditional upon prior approval by the Corporation, any company which is a subsidiary of or affiliated with the Corporation may adopt and participate in this Plan as a Participating Subsidiary.  Each Participating Subsidiary shall make, execute and deliver such instruments as the Corporation and/or Plan Administrator shall deem necessary or desirable, and shall constitute the Corporation and/or the Plan Administrators as its agents to act for it in all transactions in which the Corporation and/or the Plan Administrators believe such agency will facilitate the administration of this Plan.
 
ARTICLE XIX.  MISCELLANEOUS
 
    Whenever used in the Plan, words in the masculine form shall be deemed to refer to females as well as to males, and words in the singular or plural shall be deemed to refer also to the plural or singular, respectively, as the context may require.
 
 
ARTICLE XX.  STATUS OF PLAN
 
    The Plan is intended to be a plan that is not qualified within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and that "is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of ERISA.  The Plan shall be administered and interpreted to the extent possible in a manner consistent with that intent.  All Participant Accounts and all credits and other adjustments to such Participant Accounts shall be bookkeeping entries only and shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement and determination of amounts to be paid under the Plan.  No Participant Accounts, Earnings, credits or other adjustments under the Plan shall be interpreted as an indication that any benefits under the Plan are in any way funded.
 
ARTICLE XXI.  EFFECTIVE DATE
 
    The effective date of the Plan is January 1, 2001.  The Plan, as hereby amended and restated, is effective with respect to amounts that were not earned and vested (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code) before January 1, 2005, and any earnings on such amounts.  Amounts earned and vested (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code) before January 1, 2005, and earnings on such amounts (collectively, "Grandfathered Amounts"), remain subject to the terms of the Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004.  For recordkeeping purposes, the Corporation will account separately for Grandfathered Amounts.
 
 
ARTICLE XXII.  INTERNAL REVENUE CODE SECTION 409A
    The Plan is intended, and shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.  The Corporation does not warrant that the Plan will comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment, however.  In no event shall the Corporation, its officers, directors, employees, parents, subsidiaries (including Participating Subsidiaries), or affiliates be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, or as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy any other applicable requirements for the deferral of tax.

Article IX of the Norfolk Southern Corporation Officers' Deferred Compensation Plan ("Plan") gives the Board of Directors of Norfolk Southern Corporation the authority to amend the Plan by resolution at any time. 
The Board hereby amends the Plan by adding the following as a new paragraph at the end of Article XII, Designation of Beneficiary:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article XV, if an estate is entitled to receive payments from the Plan following the death of a Participant or Beneficiary, the executor of the estate may direct the Corporation to make payments under the Plan to the beneficiary or beneficiaries, as identified by the executor, of said estate.  The Plan Administrator may, in his discretion, limit the number of Beneficiaries designated by a Participant and the number of designees designated by an executor of an estate.
In addition, the Board amends Article XX, Effective Date, as follows:
The effective date of the Plan is January 1, 1987, as amended effective January 1, 2008.

 
Section 1.        PURPOSE
            The purpose of the Long-Term Incentive Plan ("Plan"), as amended, is to promote the success of Norfolk Southern Corporation (the "Corporation") and to provide an opportunity for officers and other key employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiary Companies (as hereinafter defined) to acquire or increase a proprietary interest in the Corporation and thereby to provide an additional incentive to officers and other key employees to devote their maximum efforts and skills to the advancement, betterment, and prosperity of the Corporation and its shareholders. The Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance share units, performance shares, shares of the Corporation's common stock (restricted pursuant to the provisions of Section 9 of the Plan) and restricted stock units, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth below. The Corporation intends that the Plan comply with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) and applicable treasury regulations thereunder and intends that compensation paid under the Plan qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Corporation reserves the right to pay compensation under the Plan that does not qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), as circumstances may warrant.  The Plan, as amended, is intended, and shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
Section 2.        DEFINITIONS
            The terms used herein shall have the following meanings unless otherwise specified or unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
 
Section 3.        ADMINISTRATION
            The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have the full and complete authority and sole discretion, except as may be delegated to the Corporation's chief executive officer as provided herein, from time to time to construe and interpret the Plan; to select the officers, key employees and non-employee directors who shall be granted Awards under the Plan; to determine the type, size, terms, and conditions of the Award or Awards to be granted to each such Participant; to authorize the grant of such Awards pursuant to the Plan; in connection with the merger or consolidation of the Corporation (and subject to any applicable requirements of Code Section 409A), to give a Participant an election to surrender an Award in exchange for the grant of a new Award; to adopt, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; and to make all other determinations and take all other actions it may deem necessary or advisable for the implementation and administration of the Plan. The Committee in its sole discretion may delegate authority to the Corporation's chief executive officer to select the officers and key employees who shall be granted Awards under the Plan (provided, however, that only the Committee shall grant Awards to the chief executive officer and Executive Officers); to determine the type, size, terms, and conditions of the Award or Awards to be granted to each such Participant; and to authorize the grant of such Awards pursuant to the Plan, in which case the chief executive officer shall have the full and complete authority to act on the Committee's behalf to the extent so delegated. The Committee, or the chief executive officer to the extent as may be delegated by the Committee (hereinafter, the term "Committee" shall include reference to the chief executive officer to the extent of any such delegation), may authorize the grant of more than one type of Award, and Awards subject to differing terms and conditions, to any eligible Participant. The Committee's decision to authorize the grant of an Award to a Participant at any time shall not require the Committee to authorize the grant of an Award to that Participant at any other time or to any other Participant at any time; nor shall its determination with respect to the size, type, or terms and conditions of the Award to be granted to a Participant at any time require it to authorize the grant of an Award of the same type or size or with the same terms and conditions to that Participant at any other time or to any other Participant at any time. The Committee shall not be precluded from authorizing the grant of an Award to any eligible Participant solely because the Participant previously may have been granted an Award of any kind under the Plan.
            All determinations of the Committee shall be by a majority of its members and shall be final, conclusive and binding. Each member of the Committee, while serving as such, shall be considered to be acting in his capacity as a director of the Corporation, and no member of the Committee shall be liable for any action taken or decision made in good faith with respect to the implementation or administration of the Plan.
Section 4.        ELIGIBILITY
            To be eligible for selection by the Committee to participate in the Plan, an individual must be a full-time salaried officer or key employee of the Corporation, or of a Subsidiary Company, and must reside in the United States or Canada, on the date on which the Committee authorizes the grant to such individual of an Award. A non-employee director shall be eligible to participate in the Plan if he or she is a director of the Corporation and is not a full-time salaried employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company on the date on which the Committee authorizes the grant of an Award to non-employee directors.
Section 5.        SHARES AVAILABLE
            Effective May 10, 2001, an additional 30,000,000 shares of Common Stock were approved for issuance pursuant to the Plan, and no more than 6,000,000 of such additional shares could be awarded as Restricted Shares or Performance Shares. Subject to approval of the Plan, as hereby amended, by the separate vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of Common Stock present or represented and entitled to vote at a meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, at which a quorum for the proposal is present, not more than 8,500,000 of the shares remaining available for issuance under the Plan on the date of such approval may be awarded as Restricted Shares, Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Unit Shares. Such shares shall be provided from shares of Common Stock authorized but not issued. Stock Appreciation Rights to be settled in shares of Common Stock shall be counted in full against the number of shares available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of Exercise Gain Shares issued upon settlement of the Stock Appreciation Right. Any shares of Common Stock which were subject to an Option, a Performance Share Unit, or a Restricted Stock Unit and which were not issued as Common Stock prior to the expiration of the Award shall thereafter again be available for award under the Plan. Any shares of Common Stock which were subject to a Stock Appreciation Right to be settled in shares of Common Stock shall again be available for award under the Plan after expiration or forfeiture of an Award. Upon the forfeiture of any Restricted Shares, the forfeited shares of Common Stock shall thereafter be available for award under the Plan. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, no Participant may be awarded a grant in any one year, which, when added to any other grant of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units in the same year, shall exceed 1,500,000 shares of Common Stock. If an Option is canceled, the canceled Option continues to count against the maximum number of shares for which Options may be granted to a Participant in any year. The settlement in cash of Restricted Stock Units, Performance Share Units and Stock Appreciation Rights shall not be counted against the total number of shares available under this Section 5 for issuance under the Plan.
Section 6.        INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS
(a)        - The Committee may authorize the grant of Incentive Stock Options subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6. The grant of an Incentive Stock Option shall be evidenced by a written Stock Option Agreement between the Corporation and the Optionee, setting forth the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Incentive Stock Option evidenced thereby and the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable thereto. The issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to an Incentive Stock Option also shall be subject to the provisions of any Share Retention Agreement that may be required by the Committee under Section 12 of the Plan.
General
                        Except for adjustments pursuant to Section 15 of the Plan, the Option Price for any outstanding Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan may not be decreased after the date the Option is granted, nor may an outstanding Option be modified or replaced if the effect would be to reduce the Option Price, unless such repricing, modification or replacement is approved by the vote of a majority of the shares of Common Stock present or represented and entitled to vote at a meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation at which a quorum is present.
(b)        - The Committee shall determine the Option price for each share of Common Stock purchased under an Option, but, subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan, in no event shall the Option price be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date the Option is granted.
Option Price
(c)        - The Committee shall fix the term or duration of Options, provided that such term shall not exceed ten (10) years from the date the Option is granted, and that such term shall be subject to earlier termination pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (g) of this Section 6 or paragraph (e) of Section 8 of the Plan.
Duration of Options
(d)        - Options are not transferable other than by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution following the death of the Optionee. Options may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by him, and following his death only by his Beneficiary.
Non-Transferability of Options
(e)        - The Committee shall determine the time or times at which Options may be exercised; provided that such time or times shall not occur before the latest of:
Exercise of Options
(i)  the first anniversary of the date on which the Option was granted; and
(ii) the effectiveness of any registration statement required to be filed under the Securities Act of 1933 for the registration of the Common Stock to be issued upon exercise of the Option.
(f)        - The purchase price of Common Stock upon exercise of an Option shall be paid in full to the Corporation at the time of the exercise of the Option in cash or, at the discretion of the Committee and subject to any limitations or requirements that the Committee may adopt, by the surrender to the Corporation of shares of previously acquired Common Stock, which have been held by the Optionee for at least twelve (12) months and which shall be valued at Fair Market Value on the date that the Option is exercised, or, at the discretion of the Committee, by a combination of cash and such Common Stock.
Payment of Option Price
(g)        - No Option shall be exercisable after it expires. Each Option shall expire upon the earliest of:
Termination of Options
(i) the expiration of the term for which the Option was granted;
(ii)  (A) Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, in the case of an Optionee whose employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company is terminated due to Retirement, Disability or death, the expiration of thirty-six (36) months after such termination of employment, or
      (B) in the case of an Optionee whose employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company is terminated for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, or death, at the close of business on the last day of active service by the Optionee with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company, or
      (C) in the case of an Optionee who is granted a leave of absence, if the Optionee's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company terminates at any time during or at the end of the leave of absence, at the close of business on the last day of employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company, or
(iii) in connection with a merger or consolidation of the Corporation, with the Optionee's consent, the grant of a new Award to replace the Option.
(h)        - The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options (granted on or after January 1, 1987) are exercisable for the first time by the Optionee during any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000, as adjusted under Code Section 422(d)(1) and corresponding Treasury Regulations.
Limitation on Exercisability
Section 7.        NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS
              The Committee may authorize the grant of Non-Qualified Stock Options subject to the terms and conditions specified in this Section 7. The grant of a Non-Qualified Stock Option shall be evidenced by a written Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between the Corporation and the Optionee, setting forth the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Non-Qualified Stock Option evidenced thereby and the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable thereto. Non-Qualified Stock Options granted pursuant to the provisions of this Section 7 shall be subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in paragraphs (a) through (g) of Section 6 of the Plan. The limitations set forth in paragraph (h) of Section 6 of the Plan shall not apply to Non-Qualified Stock Options. The issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a Non-Qualified Stock Option also shall be subject to the provisions of any Share Retention Agreement that may be required by the Committee under Section 12 of the Plan.
Section 8.        STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
(a)        - - The Committee may grant a Stock Appreciation Right to a Participant in connection with an Option, or portion thereof, or on a stand alone basis, as determined by the Committee, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 8. If granted in connection with an Option, the Stock Appreciation Right may be granted at the time of grant of the related Option and shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as the related Option, except as this Section 8 may otherwise provide. If granted in connection with an Option, the Stock Appreciation Right shall be evidenced either by provisions in the Stock Option Agreement evidencing the related Option or by a written Stock Appreciation Right Agreement between the Corporation and the Optionee, identifying the related Option, specifying the number of shares of Common Stock subject thereto and setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to the Stock Appreciation Right. If granted on a stand alone basis, the Stock Appreciation Right shall be evidenced by provisions of a written Stock Appreciation Right Agreement between the Corporation and the Participant. The Committee may grant Cash-Settled Stock Appreciation Rights or Stock-Settled Stock Appreciation Rights as shall be set forth in an Option Agreement or Stock Appreciation Right Agreement.
General
(b)        - - If granted in connection with an Option, a Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable only at such time or times, to such extent, and by such persons, as the Option to which it relates shall be exercisable. If granted on a stand alone basis, a Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable only at such time or times, to such extent, and by such persons, as shall be set forth in the Stock Appreciation Right Agreement.
Exercise
            Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to the following restrictions:
            (i) the Stock Appreciation Right may not be exercised before the expiration of one (1) year from the date on which it was granted; provided, however, that this subparagraph (i) shall not apply if the death or Disability of the Optionee occurs within one (1) year after the grant of the Stock Appreciation Right; and,
            (ii) a Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Incentive Stock Option may not be exercised on any date on which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock is less than or equal to the Option price per share under the related Incentive Stock Option.
                        A Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercised by providing the Corporation with a written notice in such form and containing such information (including the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is being exercised) as the Committee may specify. If the Stock Appreciation Right was granted in connection with an Option, the Participant must surrender the related Option, or the portion thereof pertaining to the shares with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, and the date on which the Corporation receives such notice shall be the date on which the related Option, or portion thereof, shall be deemed surrendered and the Stock Appreciation Right shall be deemed exercised.
            (c)        - - Upon the proper exercise of a Stock-Settled Stock Appreciation Right granted on a stand alone basis, a Participant shall be entitled to receive Exercise Gain Shares equal to the number of shares of Common Stock that have an aggregate Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the exercise date exceeds the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the grant date, multiplied by the number of Stock- Settled Stock Appreciation Rights surrendered in connection with the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
Payment
                        Upon the proper exercise of a Stock-Settled Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Option, an Optionee shall be entitled to receive Exercise Gain Shares equal to the number of shares of Common Stock that have an aggregate Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the exercise date exceeds the Option price per share of the related Option, multiplied by the number of shares covered by the related Option, or portion thereof, surrendered in connection with the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right. The Exercise Gain Shares shall be subject to the provisions of any Share Retention Agreement that may be required by the Committee under Section 12 of the Plan.
                        Upon the proper exercise of a Cash-Settled Stock Appreciation Right granted on a stand alone basis, a Participant shall be entitled to receive cash equal to the value of the number of shares of Common Stock that have an aggregate Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the exercise date exceeds the Fair Market Value on the grant date, multiplied by the number of Cash-Settled Stock Appreciation Rights surrendered for settlement.
                        Upon the proper exercise of a Cash-Settled Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Option, an Optionee shall be entitled to receive cash equal to the value of the number of shares of Common Stock that have an aggregate Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the exercise date exceeds the Option price per share of the related Option, multiplied by the number of shares covered by the related Option, or portion thereof, surrendered in connection with the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
            (d)        - - A Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Option shall expire, unless previously exercised or canceled, upon the expiration of an Option to which it relates, or upon such time as may be set forth in a Stock Appreciation Right Agreement. A Stock Appreciation Right granted on a stand alone basis shall be subject to the termination provisions set forth in paragraph (g) of Section 6 for Options and shall expire, unless previously exercised or cancelled, at such time as may be set forth in a Stock Appreciation Right Agreement.
Termination of Right
            (e)        - - A Stock Appreciation Right shall be canceled when, and to the extent that, it or a related Option is exercised, and an Option shall be canceled when, and to the extent that, the Option is surrendered to the Corporation upon the exercise of a related Stock Appreciation Right.
Effect of Exercise
Section 9.         RESTRICTED SHARES
            (a)        - - The Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time authorize the grant of Restricted Shares to a Participant pursuant to a Restricted Share Agreement. A certificate or certificates representing the number of Restricted Shares granted shall be registered in the name of the Participant or held in uncertificated form through a direct registration system or the number of Restricted Shares shall be delivered by electronic delivery to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit at a financial/brokerage firm selected by the Corporation. Until the expiration of the Restriction Period or the lapse of restrictions in the manner provided in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of this Section 9, any certificate or certificates shall be held by the Corporation for the account of the Participant, and any Restricted Shares held through direct registration or in a brokerage account shall be blocked from sale or transfer.  Until the expiration of the Restriction Period or the lapse of restrictions in the manner provided in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of this Section 9, the Participant shall have beneficial ownership of the Restricted Shares, including the right to receive dividends on, and the right to vote, the Restricted Shares.  Any dividends declared during the Restriction Period shall be paid in cash on the date declared by the Board of Directors.
General
            (b)        - The Committee may determine, in its sole discretion, that a Participant's entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be subject to achievement of a specified Performance Goal or Goals during the Restriction Period. If so, the Committee shall select the Performance Criterion or each combination thereof, the Performance Goal for each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof, and the Performance Criteria Weighting Percentage for each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof within ninety (90) days of the commencement of the Restriction Period. The Committee may also determine that the Restriction Period shall expire upon achievement of established Performance Goals prior to the established end of the Restriction Period. At such time as the Committee certifies that the Performance Goals have been achieved, the Committee shall authorize delivery of Restricted Shares (or such percentage of the Restricted Shares as equal the Percentage of Performance Goals that have been achieved) for which the Restriction Period has expired. If the Restricted Shares are subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, such Restricted Shares shall be forfeited to the extent Performance Goals are not achieved.
Performance Goal Requirement
before the established end of the Restriction Period
                        For Restricted Share subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, reduce the number of Restricted Shares deliverable to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 100%, based on the individual's performance. For Restricted Share not subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, adjust the number of Restricted Shares deliverable to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance. The Corporation's chief executive officer may review the individual performance of any Participant other than an Executive Officer and may, at his discretion, adjust the number of Restricted Shares deliverable to any such Participant by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance.
            (c)        - - Until the expiration of the Restriction Period or the lapse of restrictions in the manner provided in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of this Section 9, Restricted Shares shall be subject to the following restrictions and any additional restrictions that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time deem desirable in furtherance of the objectives of the Plan:
Restrictions
                        (i) the Participant shall not be entitled to receive the certificate or certificates representing the Restricted Shares, or exercise any ownership over any Restricted Shares held through direct registration or in a brokerage account;
                        (ii) the Restricted Shares may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, conveyed, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of; and
                        (iii) the Restricted Shares may be forfeited as provided in paragraphs (b) or (e) of this Section 9, subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) of this Section 9.
            (d)        - If a Participant to whom Restricted Shares have been granted remains in the continuous employment of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company during the entire Restriction Period, upon the expiration of the Restriction Period all restrictions applicable to the Restricted Shares shall lapse.  When the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Shares lapse, either:
Distribution of Restricted Shares
                        (i) the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Common Stock that were earned pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 9 shall be delivered to the Participant or,
                        (ii) if the shares were delivered by electronic delivery to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit or by direct registration and held in uncertificated form, the restrictions on the sale or transfer of or transfer any shares that were earned pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 9 shall lapse.
            (e)        - If the employment of a Participant is terminated for any reason other than the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Restricted Shares shall be forfeited immediately and all rights of the Participant with respect to such shares shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company. If the Participant is granted a leave of absence before the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Participant shall not forfeit any rights with respect to any Restricted Shares subject to the Restriction Period, unless the Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company terminates at any time during or at the end of the leave of absence, at which time the shares shall be forfeited immediately and all rights of the Participant with respect to such shares shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company. If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period and no Performance Goals have been imposed, the restrictions on the Restricted Shares shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction Period and delivery of the Restricted Shares shall be made to the Participant, or the Participant's Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death, at the end of the Restriction Period or, if the shares were delivered by electronic delivery to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit or by direct registration and held in uncertificated form, the restrictions on the sale or transfer of such shares shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction Period.  If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period and Performance Goals have been imposed, the restrictions on the Restricted Shares shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction Period and to the extent that the Committee certifies that Performance Goals have been achieved and delivery of the Restricted Shares shall be made to the Participant, or the Participant's Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section 9, as applicable or, if the shares were delivered by electronic delivery to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit or by direct registration and held in uncertificated form, the restrictions on the sale or transfer of such shares shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction Period to the extent that the Committee certifies that Performance Goals have been achieved.
Termination of Employment
            (f)        - The Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive any or all restrictions with respect to Restricted Shares. Notwithstanding any waiver, any delivery of Restricted Shares may not be made earlier than delivery would have been made absent such waiver of restrictions.
Waiver of Restrictions
Section 10.      RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
            (a)        - The Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time authorize the grant of Restricted Stock Units ("Units") to a Participant pursuant to Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. Such Units shall be recorded in individual memorandum accounts maintained by the Committee or its agent.  The grant of Restricted Stock Units shall entitle the Participant to payment in Restricted Stock Unit Shares or cash, as provided for in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. The Participant shall have no beneficial ownership interest in the Common Stock represented by the Units prior to expiration of the Restriction Period and achievement of any Performance Goals. The Participant shall have no right to vote the Common Stock represented by the Units or to receive dividends (except for any dividend equivalent payments which may be awarded by the Committee in connection with such Units) on the Common Stock represented by the Units. The grant of Units shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement between the Corporation or Subsidiary Company and the Participant, identifying the number of Units awarded, and setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to the Units.
General
            (b)        - The Committee may determine, in its sole discretion, that a Participant's entitlement to payment in cash or Restricted Stock Unit Shares for Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to achievement of a specified Performance Goal or Goals over the duration of the Restriction Period. If so, the Award shall specify when it is granted that the Participant's entitlement to payment is subject to the achievement of the Performance Goal or Goals, and the Committee shall select the Performance Criterion or each combination thereof, the Performance Goals for each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof, and the Performance Criteria Weighting Percentage for each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof within ninety (90) days after the commencement of the Restriction Period.
Performance Goal Requirement
            The Committee may specify, when the Award is granted, that the Restriction Period shall expire upon achievement of the established Performance Goals prior to the established end of the Restriction Period. At that time, the Committee shall certify in writing to what extent the Performance Goals have been achieved, and shall authorize settlement of Units in cash or Restricted Stock Unit Shares.  The Units shall be settled within two and one half months after the end of the year in which the Performance Goals are achieved.  Such settlement shall be based on the Fair Market Value on the date all applicable restrictions lapse (or such percentage of the value of the Restricted Stock Units as equal the percentage of Performance Goals that have been achieved) for which the Restriction Period has expired.  If the settlement of Restricted Stock Units is subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, such Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the extent Performance Goals are not achieved before the established end of the Restriction Period.
            For Restricted Stock Units subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, reduce the cash settlement or number of Restricted Stock Unit Shares delivered for the Restricted Stock Units granted to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 100%, based on the individual's performance.  For Restricted Stock Units not subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, adjust the cash settlement or number of Restricted Stock Unit Shares delivered for the Restricted Stock Units granted to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance. The Corporation's chief executive officer may review the individual performance of any Participant other than an Executive Officer and may, at his discretion, adjust the cash settlement or number of Restricted Stock Unit Shares delivered for the Restricted Stock Units granted to any such Participant by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance.
            (c)        - - Until the expiration of the Restriction Period or the lapse of restrictions in the manner provided in paragraph (b), (d), (f), or (g) of this Section 10, Units shall be subject to the following restrictions and any additional restrictions that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time deem desirable in furtherance of the objectives of the Plan:
Restrictions
                        (i) the grant of Units to a Participant shall not entitle a Participant to receive cash payment or Restricted Stock Unit Shares;
                        (ii) the Units may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, conveyed, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of; and,
                        (iii) all or a portion of the Units may be forfeited immediately as provided in paragraph (b) or (e) of this Section 10, subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) of this Section 10.
            (d)        - If a Participant to whom Units have been granted remains in the continuous employment of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company during the entire Restriction Period, upon the expiration of the Restriction Period all restrictions applicable to the Units shall lapse, and the Units shall be settled in cash or in Restricted Stock Unit Shares, based on Fair Market Value on the date all applicable restrictions lapse.  Settlement in cash in a single sum or issuance of Restricted Stock Unit Shares shall be made within thirty (30) days following the expiration of the Restriction Period.  The Participant may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of the settlement.
Distribution of Restricted Stock Units
            (e)        - If the employment of a Participant is terminated for any reason other than the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Units shall be forfeited immediately and all rights of the Participant with respect to such Units shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company. If the Participant is granted a leave of absence before the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Participant shall not forfeit all rights with respect to any Units subject to the Restriction Period, unless the Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company terminates at any time during or at the end of the leave of absence, at which time all rights of the Participant with respect to such units shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company.
Termination of Employment
            (f)        - If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period and no Performance Goals have been imposed, the restrictions on the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction Period and settlement of Restricted Stock Units shall be made at the end of the Restriction Period to the Participant, or his Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death. 
Retirement, Disability or Death
Settlement of the Restricted Stock Units shall be made within thirty (30) days following the expiration of the Restriction Period. The Participant or Beneficiary may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of the settlement.
                        If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period and Performance Goals have been imposed, the restrictions on the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse if the Committee certifies that Performance Goals have been achieved, and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units shall be made to the Participant, or the Participant's Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death, in accordance with paragraph (b) or (g) of this Section 10, as applicable.
            (g)        - - The Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive any or all restrictions with respect to Units.  If no Performance Goals have been imposed, settlement of the Units shall be made on the same settlement date that would have applied absent the waiver of restrictions.  If Performance Goals have been imposed, settlement of the Units shall be made within two and one half months after the end of the year in which all restrictions are either waived or satisfied.    
Waiver of Restrictions
Section 11.      PERFORMANCE SHARES
            (a)        - - The Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time authorize the grant of Performance Share Units to a Participant. Performance Share Units shall entitle the Participant to Performance Shares (or cash in lieu thereof) upon the achievement of Performance Goals. The Committee shall select the Performance Criteria, set the Performance Goals and assign Performance Criteria Weighting Percentages to each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof within ninety (90) days of the commencement of the Performance Cycle. After the end of the Performance Cycle, the Committee shall certify in writing to what extent the Performance Goals have been achieved.  The Committee shall thereafter authorize the payment of (i) cash in lieu of Performance Shares (or such percentage of the value of the Performance Shares as equal the percentage of Performance Goals that have been achieved), or (ii) either (1) the issuance of Performance Shares registered in the name of the Participant or (2) the electronic delivery of Performance Shares to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit at a financial/brokerage firm selected by the Corporation (in either case equal to such percentage of the value of the Performance Shares as equal the percentage of Performance Goals that have been achieved), subject to the provisions of any Share Retention Agreement that may be required by the Committee under Section 12 of the Plan, or (iii) both. Settlement in cash or issuance of Performance Shares shall be made within two and one half months after the end of the year in which the Performance Goals are achieved. 
General
            (b)        - In addition, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, reduce the cash settlement or number of Performance Shares deliverable to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 100%, based on the individual's performance. The Corporation's chief executive officer may review the individual performance of any Participant other than an Executive Officer and may, at his discretion, adjust the cash settlement or number of Performance Shares deliverable to any such Participant by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance.
Individual Performance Reviews
            (c)        - If the Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company is terminated before the end of a Performance Cycle for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, or death, the Participant shall forfeit all rights with respect to any Performance Shares that were being earned during the Performance Cycle. If the Participant is granted a leave of absence before the end of a Performance Cycle, the Participant shall not forfeit all rights with respect to any Performance Shares that were being earned during the Performance Cycle, unless the Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company terminates at any time during or at the end of the leave of absence, at which time the Participant shall forfeit all rights with respect to any Performance Shares that were being earned during the Performance Cycle. If the Participant's employment is terminated before the end of a Performance Cycle by reason of Retirement, Disability, or death, the Participant's rights with respect to any Performance Shares being earned during the Performance Cycle shall, subject to the other provisions of this Section 11, continue as if the Participant's employment had continued through the end of the Performance Cycle.
Distribution or Forfeiture of Performance Shares
Section 12.      SHARE RETENTION AGREEMENTS
            (a)        - The Committee, in its sole discretion, may require as a condition of a grant, exercise, settlement or payment with respect to any Award under the Plan that the Participant and the Corporation enter into a Share Retention Agreement, which shall provide that, with respect to any Exercise Gain Shares, Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Unit Shares, or Performance Shares, that (i) the certificate or certificates representing any such Awards, when issued, shall be held by the Secretary of the Corporation for the benefit of the Participant until such time as the retention period specified by the Share Retention Agreement has expired or has been waived by the Committee, whichever occurs first, or (ii) that any such Award, when delivered by electronic delivery to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit at a financial/brokerage firm selected by the Corporation or by direct registration and held in uncertificated form, shall not be permitted to be transferred or sold until such time as the retention period specified by the Share Retention Agreement has expired or has been waived by the Committee, whichever occurs first.  Any dividends payable on shares subject to a Share Retention Agreement shall be paid to the Participant in cash on the date declared by the Board of Directors.  Each Share Retention Agreement may include some or all of the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this Section 12.
General
            (b)        - Shares that are subject to the Share Retention Agreement may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, conveyed, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of within such period of time, of not less than twenty-four (24) months and not more than sixty (60) months following the exercise date (in the case of Exercise Gain Shares) or the date of issuance (in the case of Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Unit Shares, or Performance Shares), as shall be prescribed by the Committee.
Retention Period
            (c)        - - The Corporation may, in the Committee's sole discretion, make a cash payment at any time prior to or simultaneously with settlement or payment of an Award, either directly to the Participant or on the Participant's behalf, in an amount that the Committee estimates to be equal (after taking into account any Federal and state taxes that the Committee estimates to be applicable to such cash payment) to any additional Federal and state income taxes that are imposed upon the Participant as a result of the issuance of the Exercise Gain Shares, Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Unit Shares, or Performance Shares that are subject to the Share Retention Agreement. In determining the amount, if any, to be paid pursuant to this paragraph (c), the Committee may adopt such methods and assumptions as it considers appropriate, and it shall not be required to examine the individual tax liability of each Participant who has entered into a Share Retention Agreement.
Tax Absorption Payment
            (d)        - If a Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company is terminated for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, or death, shares subject to the Share Retention Agreement shall continue to be held, following the Participant's termination of employment, until the expiration of the retention period specified by the Share Retention Agreement. If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of Retirement or Disability, shares then held subject to the Share Retention Agreement shall continue to be held until the expiration of the applicable retention period following termination of employment, but any such retention period shall cease upon the earlier of the Participant's attainment of age 65 or the expiration of two (2) years after the Participant's Retirement or Disability, if either of those events occurs before the expiration of the applicable retention period. If the Participant dies while shares are subject to a retention period under the Share Retention Agreement, such retention period shall expire immediately at the time of death.
Termination of Employment
            (e)        - If a Participant is granted a leave of absence, shares subject to the Share Retention Agreement shall continue to be held during the leave of absence, until the expiration of the retention period specified by the Share Retention Agreement.
Leave of Absence
            (f)        - Upon a Change in Control, the retention periods specified by all Share Retention Agreements shall immediately expire.
Change in Control
                        A Change in Control shall occur if:
                        (i) any person, other than the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company or any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company, shall become the beneficial owner of, or obtain voting control over, 20% or more of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock;
                        (ii) the stockholders of the Corporation shall approve (A) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation in which the Corporation is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities, or other property, other than a merger of the Corporation in which holders of Common Stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger as immediately before, or (B) any sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all the assets of the Corporation; or
                        (iii) there shall have been a change in the composition of the Board of Directors such that within any period of two (2) consecutive years or less individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted such Board, together with any new directors whose election, or nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then in office who were directors at the beginning of such period, shall for any reason no longer constitute a majority of the directors of the Corporation.
                        If the expiration of a Share Retention Agreement pursuant to this paragraph (f) causes a Participant to be subject to an excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto (the "Excise Tax"), the Corporation shall make a cash payment, either directly to the Participant or on the Participant's behalf, in an amount that the Committee estimates to be equal (after taking into account any Federal and state taxes, including interest and penalties, that the Committee estimates to be applicable to the additional cash payment) to the additional Excise Tax imposed on the Participant as a result of the expiration of the Share Retention Agreement. In determining the amount to be paid pursuant to this subparagraph, the Committee may adopt such methods and assumptions as it considers appropriate, and it shall not be required to examine the individual tax liability of each Participant to whom this subparagraph applies.
            (g)        - - The Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive any or all retention periods or other restrictions in the Share Retention Agreement.
Waiver of Requirements
            (h)        - - The Secretary of the Corporation shall promptly distribute the certificate or certificates representing the shares subject to a Share Retention Agreement upon expiration of the retention period or other termination or waiver of the restrictions under this Section 12.
Distribution of Shares
Section 13.      DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT PAYMENTS
            The Committee may authorize the immediate payment of dividend equivalents on some or all of the shares of Common Stock covered by Options in an amount equal to, and commensurate with, dividends declared by the Board of Directors and paid on Common Stock. The Committee may authorize the immediate or deferred payment of dividend equivalents on some or all of the shares of Common Stock covered by Performance Share Units and Restricted Stock Units. Dividend equivalents payable on Option shares or on Performance Share Units under this Section 13 may be paid in cash or in Common Stock at the discretion of the Committee. Dividend equivalents payable on Restricted Stock Units under this Section 13 may be paid in cash or converted to additional Restricted Stock Units, at the discretion of the Committee. The Committee may authorize the immediate payment of dividend equivalents under this Section 13 with respect to any Option for all or some portion of its term by including a specific provision, authorizing such immediate payment, in the Incentive Stock Option Agreement required under Section 6(a) of the Plan or the Non-qualified Stock Option Agreement required under Section 7 of the Plan when the Award is granted. The Committee may authorize the immediate or deferred payment of dividend equivalents under this Section 13 with respect to any Performance Share Unit for all or some portion of its term as a term and condition of the Performance Share Unit grant when the Award is granted. The Committee may authorize the immediate or deferred payment of dividend equivalents under this Section 13 with respect to any Restricted Stock Unit for all or some portion of its term as a term and condition of the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, by including a specific provision, authorizing such payment, in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement required under Section 10 of the Plan when the Award is granted. Notwithstanding the above, dividend equivalent payments shall not be made or accumulated during a Participant's leave of absence. If the Committee authorizes the dividend equivalents to be paid immediately, the dividend equivalents shall be paid in cash on the date declared by the Board of Directors for the payment of dividends on Common Stock.  If the Committee authorizes dividend equivalents on Performance Share Units or Restricted Stock Units to be deferred, the deferred dividend equivalents shall be paid or forfeited when the underlying Award is paid or forfeited.
Section 14.      NON-COMPETE COVENANT
            The Committee, in its sole discretion, may require as a condition of a grant of any Award under the Plan that the Participant execute a non-compete, non-solicitation and confidentiality agreement, which agreement shall require that such individual (i) not Engage in Competing Employment (as defined in this Section 14 of the Plan) nor solicit any employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company to Engage in Competing Employment for a specified term following termination of employment (including Retirement), (ii) not solicit customers of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company for a specified term following termination of employment (including Retirement), and (iii) maintain the Corporation's and each Subsidiary Company's confidential information in strict confidence, in accordance with the provisions of the agreement. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may further require as a condition of a grant, exercise, settlement or payment with respect to any Award under the Plan that the Award shall be subject to immediate forfeiture, and all rights of the Participant to such Award shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company, if the Participant Engages in Competing Employment for a specified period of time following termination of employment. The terms of such a non-compete covenant shall be as set forth in the agreement or grant providing the terms of an Award and are incorporated herein by reference.  A non-compete covenant shall not apply to the settlement or payment of any Option (although it may apply to the grant or exercise of an Option).  Settlement or payment of any other Award that is subject to a non-compete covenant shall occur upon the expiration of the Restriction Period, Performance Period, Retention Period, or other date upon which the Award would be settled and paid if the Participant had not terminated employment. 
            For purposes of the provision, "Engages in Competing Employment" shall mean to work for or provide services for any Competitor, on the Participant's own behalf or in the service of or on behalf of others, including, but not limited to, as a consultant, independent contractor, owner, officer, partner, joint venturer, or employee, at any time during the specified period commencing on the date of his or her termination of employment (including Retirement). "Competitor" shall mean any entity in the same line of business as the Corporation in North American markets in which the Corporation competes, including, but not limited to, any North American Class I rail carrier, any other rail carrier competing with the Corporation (including without limitation a holding or other company that controls or operates or is otherwise affiliated with any rail carrier competing with the Corporation), and any other provider of transportation services competing with Corporation, including motor and water carriers.
Section 15.      CAPITAL ADJUSTMENTS
            In the event of a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, exchange, combination, or reclassification of shares, merger, consolidation, reorganization, or other change in or affecting the capital structure or capital stock of the Corporation, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Committee, may make appropriate adjustments in the number of shares of Common Stock authorized for the Plan and in the annual limitation imposed by Section 5 of this Plan; and the Committee may make appropriate adjustments in the number of shares subject to outstanding Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Units, or Performance Share Unit grants, and in the Option price of any then outstanding Options, as it deems equitable, in its absolute discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants. To the extent required to prevent the treatment of any Award as deferred compensation under Code Section 409A, the Committee will follow the requirements of Code Section 409A and related Treasury Regulations.
Section 16.      REGULATORY APPROVALS
            The exercise of each Option and Stock Appreciation Right, and the grant or distribution of Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Shares, shall be subject to the condition that if at any time the Corporation shall determine in its discretion that the satisfaction of withholding tax or other tax liabilities, or the listing, registration, or qualification of any shares of Common Stock upon any securities exchange or under any Federal or state law, or the consent or approval of any regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, such exercise, grant, or distribution, then in any such event such exercise, grant, or distribution shall not be effective unless such liabilities have been satisfied or such listing, registration, qualification, consent, or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Corporation. 
Section 17.      TERM OF THE PLAN
            Awards may be granted from time to time under the terms and conditions of the Plan, but no Incentive Stock Option may be granted after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date of adoption of the Plan, as amended on May 12, 2005, by the Board of Directors; provided, that any future amendment to the Plan that is approved by the stockholders of the Corporation in the manner provided under Section 18 of this Plan shall be regarded as creating a new Plan, and an Incentive Stock Option may be granted under such new Plan until the expiration of ten (10) years from the earlier of the approval by the Board of Directors, or the approval by the stockholders of the Corporation, of such new Plan. Incentive Stock Options theretofore granted may extend beyond the expiration of that ten-year period, and the terms and conditions of the Plan shall continue to apply thereto and to shares of Common Stock acquired upon the subsequent exercise of an Incentive Stock Option or related Stock Appreciation Right.
Section 18.      AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN
            The Corporation may at any time and from time to time alter or amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan, or may at any time suspend or terminate the Plan, through resolution of its Board of Directors, provided that no change in any Awards theretofore granted to any Participant may be made which would impair or diminish the rights of the Participant without the Participant's consent, and provided further, that no alteration or amendment may be made without the approval of the holders of a majority of the Common Stock then outstanding and entitled to vote if such stockholder approval is necessary to comply with the requirements of any rules promulgated under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or such other Federal or state laws or regulations as may be applicable. Notwithstanding this provision, the amendment or termination of the Plan may not accelerate or defer the payment of Awards in a manner that would violate the requirements of Code Section 409A.
Section 19.      MISCELLANEOUS
            (a)        - The Corporation shall not be required to issue or deliver any fractional share of Common Stock upon the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the award of Performance Shares, the payment of a dividend equivalent in Common Stock pursuant to Section 13 of the Plan or the withholding of shares of Common Stock for payment of taxes required to be withheld, but may pay, in lieu thereof, an amount in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional share.
Fractional Shares
            (b)        - The Corporation and its Subsidiary Companies shall have the right, to the extent permitted by law, to deduct from any payment of any kind otherwise due to a Participant any Federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to Awards under the Plan, and to the extent any such withholding requirements are not satisfied, each Participant shall pay to the Corporation any Federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to Awards under the Plan. The Corporation shall have the right to withhold shares of Common Stock, including fractional shares, from payment as necessary to satisfy any withholding obligations, but may only withhold the minimum number of shares necessary to do so. If fractional shares are withheld, any remaining fractional shares shall be paid in cash to the Participant as provided under paragraph (a) of this Section 19.  The Participant or Beneficiary shall remain responsible at all times for paying any Federal, state or local taxes of any kind with respect to Awards under the Plan.  In no event shall the Corporation or the Committee be liable for any interest or penalty that a Participant or Beneficiary incurs by failing to make timely payments of tax.
Withholding
            (c)        - - No person shall have any rights of a stockholder by virtue of an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, or Performance Share Unit except with respect to shares of Common Stock actually issued to him, and the issuance of shares of Common Stock shall confer no retroactive right to dividends.
Stockholder Rights
            (d)        - This Plan shall not be deemed to be an employment contract between the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company and any Participant or other employee. Nothing contained herein, or in any agreement, certificate or other document evidencing, providing for, or setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to any Awards shall be deemed to confer upon any Participant or other employee a right to continue in the employment of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company, or to interfere with the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company to terminate the employment of such Participant or employee at any time.
No Contract of Employment
            (e)        - Except as may otherwise be provided in the Plan, the Plan shall be unfunded. Neither the Corporation nor any Subsidiary Company shall be required to segregate any assets that may be represented by Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Performance Share Units, or Restricted Stock Units, and neither the Corporation nor any Subsidiary Company shall be deemed to be a trustee of any amounts to be paid under an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Performance Share Unit, or Restricted Stock Unit. Any liability of the Corporation to pay any Participant or Beneficiary with respect to an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Performance Share Unit, or Restricted Stock Unit shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations created pursuant to the provisions of the Plan; no such obligation shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or encumbrance on any property of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company.
Unfunded Plan
            (f)        - The Plan, its validity, interpretation, and administration, and the rights and obligations of all persons having an interest therein, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, except to the extent that such laws may be preempted by Federal law.
Applicable Law
            (g)        - - Wherever used in the Plan, words in the masculine form shall be deemed to refer to females as well as to males, and words in the singular or plural shall be deemed to refer also to the plural or singular, respectively, as the context may require.
Gender and Number
            (h)        - - The Plan is intended, and shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  The Corporation does not warrant that the Plan will comply with Code Section 409A with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment, however.  In no event shall the Corporation or the Committee be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A, or as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy any other applicable requirements for the deferral of tax.
Code Section 409A

Section 1.        PURPOSE 
The Restricted Stock Unit Plan was adopted January 28, 2003, to promote the success of Norfolk Southern Corporation (the "Corporation") by providing compensation to officers and other key employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiary Companies (as hereinafter defined) which is tied to the performance of the common stock of the Corporation, thereby providing an additional incentive to officers and other key employees to devote their maximum efforts and skills to the success of the Corporation and further aligning their interests with those of the shareholders. The Plan provides for the grant of restricted stock units whose value is measured by the fair market value of the Corporation's common stock and which will be payable in cash upon satisfaction of the applicable restrictions, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth below.  The Plan was amended on January 1, 2009, to comply with section 409A of the Code, effective with respect to Awards vesting on or after January 1, 2005.
Section 2.        DEFINITIONS
            The terms used herein shall have the following meanings unless otherwise specified or unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
Section 3.        ADMINISTRATION
            The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have the full and complete authority and sole discretion from time to time to construe and interpret the Plan; to select the officers and other key employees who shall be granted Awards under the Plan; to determine the type, size, terms, and conditions of the Award or Awards to be granted to each such Participant; to authorize the grant of such Awards pursuant to the Plan; in connection with the merger or consolidation of the Corporation (and subject to any applicable requirements of Code section 409A), to give a Participant an election to surrender an Award in exchange for the grant of a new Award; to adopt, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; and to make all other determinations and take all other action it may deem necessary or advisable for the implementation and administration of the Plan. The Committee may authorize the grant of Awards subject to differing terms and conditions to any eligible employee. The Committee's decision to authorize the grant of an Award to an employee at any time shall not require the Committee to authorize the grant of an Award to that employee at any other time or to any other employee at any time; nor shall its determination with respect to the size or terms and conditions of the Award to be granted to an employee at any time require it to authorize the grant of an Award of the same size or with the same terms and conditions to that employee at any other time or to any other employee at any time. The Committee shall not be precluded from authorizing the grant of an Award to any eligible employee solely because the employee previously may have been granted an Award of any kind under the Plan.
            All determinations of the Committee shall be by a majority of its members and shall be final, conclusive and binding. Each member of the Committee, while serving as such, shall be considered to be acting in his capacity as a director of the Corporation, and no member of the Committee shall be liable for any action taken or decision made in good faith with respect to the implementation or administration of the Plan.
Section 4.        ELIGIBILITY
            To be eligible for selection by the Committee to participate in the Plan, an individual must be a full-time salaried officer or key employee of the Corporation, or of a Subsidiary Company, and must reside in the United States or Canada, on the date on which the Committee authorizes the grant to such individual of an Award.
Section 5.        RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
            (a)        - The Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time authorize the grant of Restricted Stock Units to a Participant. Such Restricted Stock Units will be recorded in individual memorandum accounts maintained by the Committee or its agent. The Participant shall have no beneficial ownership interest in the Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units and no right to receive a certificate representing such shares of Common Stock. Further, the Participant shall have no right to vote the Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units or to receive dividends (except for any equivalent payments which may be awarded by the Committee in connection with such Restricted Stock Units) on the Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units.
Type of Award
            (b)        - Until the expiration of the Restriction Period or the lapse of restrictions in the manner provided in paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of this Section 5, Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the following restrictions and any additional restrictions that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time deem desirable in furtherance of the objectives of the Plan:
Restrictions
                        (i) the Participant shall not be entitled to receive cash payment for the Restricted Stock Units which the Participant may have a contingent right to receive in the future;
                        (ii) the Restricted Stock Units may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, conveyed, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of; and
                        (iii) all or a portion of the Restricted Stock Units may be forfeited immediately as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this Section 5.
            (c)        - If a Participant to whom Restricted Stock Units have been granted remains in the continuous employment of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company during the entire Restriction Period, upon the expiration of the Restriction Period all restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, and the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in cash, not in shares of Common Stock, based on Fair Market Value on the date all applicable restrictions lapse.  The cash settlement representing the Restricted Stock Units upon which the restrictions have lapsed shall be delivered to the Participant in a lump sum on the first business day following the day on which the Restriction Period expires.
Distribution of Restricted Stock Units
            (d)        - If the employment of a Participant is terminated for any reason other than the Retirement, Disability or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited immediately and all rights of the Participant to such units shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company.
Termination of Employment
            (e)        - If the employment of a Participant is terminated by reason of Disability or death of the Participant in service before expiration of the Restriction Period, the number of Restricted Stock Units held by the Corporation for the Participant's account shall be reduced by the proportion of the Restriction Period remaining after the Participant's termination of employment; the restrictions on the balance of such Restricted Stock Units shall lapse on the date the Participant's employment terminated; and the cash settlement representing the Restricted Stock Units upon which the restrictions have lapsed shall be delivered to the Participant (or, in the event of the Participant's death, to his Beneficiary) in a lump sum on the first business day following the day the Participant's employment terminated. 
Disability or Death
            (f)         - - If the employment of a Participant is terminated by reason of the Retirement of the Participant before the end of the Restriction Period, the number of Restricted Stock Units held by the Corporation for the Participant's account shall be reduced by the proportion of the Restriction Period remaining after Participant's Retirement; the restrictions on the balance of such Restricted Stock Units shall lapse on the date of Retirement; and the cash settlement representing the Restricted Stock Units upon which the restrictions have lapsed shall be delivered to the Participant as provided below.
Retirement
                        (i)         The cash settlement shall be delivered to the Participant in a lump sum on the first business day following the Participant's Retirement, unless the Participant is a Specified Employee on the Participant's Retirement date.
                        (ii)        If the Participant is a Specified Employee on the Participant's Retirement date, the cash settlement shall be delivered to the Participant in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month following the Participant's Retirement.
            (g)        - The Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive any or all restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock Units, provided that the waiver of restrictions does not accelerate the payment of the Restricted Stock Units in a manner that would violate the requirements of Code section 409A.
Waiver of Restrictions
             (h)       - A payment is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made on the due date specified by the Plan, or on a later date that is either (i) in the same calendar year (for a payment whose specified due date is on or before September 30), or (ii) by the 15th day of the third calendar month following the date specified by the Plan (for a payment whose specified due date is on or after October 1).  A payment also is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made not more than 30 days before the due date specified by the Plan, provided that a payment under paragraph (f)(ii) of this Section 5 shall not be made earlier than six months after a Specified Employee's retirement, and no payment shall be made earlier than the date on which the applicable restrictions lapse.  A Participant or Beneficiary may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of a payment made in reliance on the administrative rules in this paragraph.
Administrative Adjustments in Payment Date
 
Section 6.        DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT PAYMENTS
            The Committee may authorize the payment of dividend equivalents on some or all of the Restricted Stock Units representing shares of Common Stock, in an amount equal to, and commensurate with, dividends declared by the Board of Directors and paid on Common Stock. Dividend equivalents payable on Restricted Stock Units under this Section 6 shall be paid immediately in cash or converted to additional Restricted Stock Units based on the Fair Market Value of Common Stock on the date dividends are paid, as may be determined by the Committee and specified in the Award when the Restricted Stock Units are granted.  If the dividend equivalents are paid immediately in cash, the settlement thereof will be paid in cash on the date declared by the Board of Directors for the payment of dividends on Common Stock. If the dividend equivalents are converted to additional Restricted Stock Units, the additional Restricted Stock Units shall be recorded in the Participant's individual memorandum account and subject to any remaining Restriction Period applicable to the Restricted Stock Units on which the dividend equivalents were paid. Upon cash settlement of the Restricted Stock Units on which the dividend equivalents were paid, the additional Restricted Stock Units representing dividend equivalents will be paid in cash. The Committee may authorize the payment of dividend equivalents under this Section 6 with respect to any Restricted Stock Unit for all or some portion of its term, provided that the Committee designates the period for which dividend equivalents are granted and the manner in which they will be paid at the time when the Restricted Stock Unit is granted.
 
Section 7.        CAPITAL ADJUSTMENTS
            In the event of a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, exchange, combination, or reclassification of shares, merger, consolidation, reorganization, or other change in or affecting the capital structure or capital stock of the Corporation, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Committee, may make appropriate adjustments in the number of Restricted Stock Units representing shares of Common Stock, as it deems equitable, in its absolute discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants.
Section 8.        AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN
            The Corporation may at any time and from time to time alter or amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan, or may at any time suspend or terminate the Plan, through written action of its chief executive officer or resolution of its Board of Directors, provided that no change in any Awards theretofore granted to any Participant may be made which would impair or diminish the rights of the Participant without the Participant's consent, or that would accelerate or defer the payment of the Awards in a manner that would violate the requirements of Code section 409A.
Section 9.        MISCELLANEOUS
            (a)        - The Corporation and its Subsidiary Companies shall have the right, to the extent permitted by law, to withhold from any payment of any kind otherwise due to a Participant any Federal, state, or local income or employment tax that the Corporation reasonably determines to be due with respect to the payment.  The Corporation may deduct from the value of the Restricted Stock Units any employment tax that the Corporation reasonably determines to be due with respect to the Restricted Stock Units under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) or the Railroad Retirement Tax Act (RRTA), and to pay the income tax withholding related to such FICA or RRTA tax.  Alternatively, the Corporation may require the Participant or Beneficiary to remit to the Corporation or its designee an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable federal, state, and local income and employment tax with respect to the Participant's Restricted Stock Units.  The Participant or Beneficiary shall remain responsible at all times for paying any federal, state, or local income or employment tax with respect to the Restricted Stock Units.  In no event shall the Corporation or the Committee be liable for any interest or penalty that a Participant or Beneficiary incurs by failing to make timely payments of tax.
Withholding
            (b)        - No person shall have any rights of a stockholder by virtue of a Restricted Stock Unit.
Stockholder Rights
            (c)        - This Plan shall not be deemed to be an employment contract between the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company and any Participant or other employee. Nothing contained herein, or in any agreement, certificate or other document evidencing, providing for, or setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to any Awards shall be deemed to confer upon any Participant or other employee a right to continue in the employment of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company, or to interfere with the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company to terminate the employment of such Participant or employee at any time.
No Contract of Employment
            (d)        - Except as may otherwise be provided in the Plan, the Plan shall be unfunded. Neither the Corporation nor any Subsidiary Company shall be required to segregate any assets that may be represented by Restricted Stock Units, and neither the Corporation nor any Subsidiary Company shall be deemed to be a trustee of any amounts to be paid under a Restricted Stock Unit. Any liability of the Corporation to pay any Participant or Beneficiary with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations created pursuant to the provisions of the Plan; no such obligation shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or encumbrance on any property of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company.
Unfunded Plan
            (e)        - The Plan, its validity, interpretation, and administration, and the rights and obligations of all persons having an interest therein, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, except to the extent that such laws may be preempted by Federal law.
Applicable Law
            (f)         - Wherever used in the Plan, words in the masculine form shall be deemed to refer to females as well as to males, and words in the singular or plural shall be deemed to refer also to the plural or singular, respectively, as the context may require.
Gender and Number
            (g)        -The Plan is intended, and shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of Code section 409A.  The Corporation does not warrant that the Plan will comply with Code section 409A with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment, however.  In no event shall the Corporation or the Committee be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy the requirements of Code section 409A, or as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy any other applicable requirements for the deferral of tax.
Code Section 409A

SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT PLAN
OF
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
AND
PARTICIPATING SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
(As amended effective January 1, 2009)
 
   
ARTICLE  I.
INTRODUCTION
This Supplemental Benefit Plan ("Plan"), formerly the Excess Benefit Plan, was established by Norfolk Southern Corporation effective June 1, 1982, ("Effective Date") to provide retirement benefits to eligible employees in excess of those provided for by the Retirement Plan of Norfolk Southern Corporation and Participating Subsidiary Companies.  This Plan is the successor to and supersedes, as of the Effective Date, the following plans:
     Excess Benefit Plan of Norfolk and Western Railway Company
     Southern Railway System Supplemental Retirement Plan
     Norfolk and Western Railway Company Executives Contingent Compensation Plan Pension Resolution
            The Plan, as hereby amended and restated, is effective with respect to supplemental benefits that were earned or vested (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code) on or after January 1, 2005.  Supplemental benefits earned and vested (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code) before January 1, 2005, and any subsequent increase that is permitted to be included in such benefits under Section 409A (collectively, the "Grandfathered Amounts"), remain subject to the terms of the Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004.  For recordkeeping purposes, NSC will account separately for the Grandfathered Amounts.
 
 
   
ARTICLE II.
DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
ARTICLE III.
ELIGIBILITY AND PAYMENTS
1.         The following Members of the Retirement Plan shall be eligible to participate in the Plan on or after the Effective Date:
(a)        Any Member of the Retirement Plan whose benefit computed under Article VI of the Retirement Plan without regard to the maximum limitation on benefits imposed by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code exceeds such maximum limitation on benefits;
(b)        Any Member of the Retirement Plan whose benefit computed under Article VI of the Retirement Plan disregards amounts of Deferred Compensation in the computation of his Average Final Compensation;
(c)        Any Member of the Retirement Plan entitled to receive a pension benefit, in excess of the benefit computed under the provisions of the Retirement Plan, pursuant to an NW Pension Resolution;
(d)        Any Member of the Retirement Plan entitled to receive a pension benefit, in excess of the benefit computed under the provisions of the Retirement Plan, pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of NSC;
(e)        Any Member of the Retirement Plan whose Compensation exceeds the limitation contained in Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code;
(f)         Any Member protected by the Pension Benefits Standard Act of Canada whose benefit computed under Article VI of the Retirement Plan exceeds $60,000; or
(g)        Any Member of the Retirement Plan entitled to receive a pension benefit in excess of the benefit computed under the provisions of the Retirement Plan, pursuant to the provisions of any agreement between a Participant and NSC providing benefits upon "Termination" of a Participant's employment following a "Change in Control" (as the terms "Termination" and "Change in Control" are defined in any such agreement).
2.         Any participant of the Excess Benefit Plan of Norfolk and Western Railway Company or the Southern Railway System Supplemental Retirement Plan or any individual covered by the Norfolk and Western Railway Company Executive Contingent Compensation Plan Pension Resolution, dated September 24, 1968, shall become a Participant on the Effective Date.  Any participant in the Consolidated Rail Corporation Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan who transfers employment to NSC from Consolidated Rail Corporation on or before August 22, 2001 shall become a Participant on the effective date of his or her transfer.
3.         Subject to Section 5 of this Article III, a Participant's benefit shall commence on the later of the last day of the month in which a Participant turns age 55 or the Participant's Separation from Service.  Unless the Participant elects a different form of annuity under Section 4 of this Article III, the Participant's supplemental benefit shall be paid as a single life annuity if the Participant is single on the benefit commencement date, and shall be paid as a joint and 50% survivor annuity with the Participant's spouse as the survivor annuitant if the Participant is married on the benefit commencement date. 
4.         At any time before a Participant's benefit commencement date, the Participant may change the form of payment for the Participant's supplemental benefit from one life annuity to another actuarially-equivalent life annuity (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code) commencing at the same time, or may change the designated survivor annuitant, provided, however, that if the Participant's benefit under this Plan and the Retirement Plan are to commence at the same time (disregarding any six-month delay under Section V of this Article III), a Participant may not elect a form of payment or a designated survivor annuitant for the Participant's supplemental benefit that is a different form of payment or designated survivor annuitant than the Participant has elected under the Retirement Plan.  Any change in the Participant's form of annuity or survivor annuitant shall be subject to any spousal consent requirement that would have applied if the election had been made under the Retirement Plan.
5.         If a Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of his or her Separation from Service, the Participant's supplemental benefit shall not commence or be paid earlier than six months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service.  Any payments that otherwise would have been made during the six-month period shall be paid in a lump sum, without interest, on the last day of the first month that begins after the six-month period.
 
 
 
ARTICLE IV.
SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT
1.         A Participant shall, upon the Participant's benefit commencement date, be entitled to receive a monthly benefit equal to the excess of
(a)        the monthly benefit under Article VI of the Retirement Plan if such benefit had been payable at the same time and in the same form as the Participant's supplemental benefit, and had been computed
(i)                    without regard to the limitation imposed by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code and provided for in Section 1 of Article VII of the Retirement Plan, in Section 7.4 of the Conrail Plan and in Section 7.4 of the Retirement Plan of Consolidated Rail Corporation;
(ii)                    without regard to the limitation of Compensation imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code;
(iii)                   without regard to the $60,000 limitation on benefits payable to Members protected by the Pension Benefits Standard Act of Canada;
(iv)                   without regard to the minimum benefit provided for in Section 13 of Article VI of the Retirement Plan provided, however, that this paragraph (iv) shall be effective only with respect to benefits accrued after April 30, 2005, and further provided that in no event shall the benefit payable under this plan be greater than the benefit that would have been payable if Section 13 of the Retirement Plan had continued to apply as in effect on April 30, 2005;
(v)                    by including in the calculation of Average Monthly Final Compensation amounts of Deferred Compensation, if any; 
(vi)                   by including service credits and applying any offsets provided for under any NW Pension Resolution, if any;
(vii)                  by including the service credits and compensation to which a Participant is entitled pursuant to the provisions of any agreement providing the benefits described in Article III, Section 1(g), hereof; and
(viii)                 by excluding the Additional Retirement Benefit provided under Article VI of the Retirement Plan, as set forth in Schedule A of the Retirement Plan, over
(b)        the sum of
(i)                    the monthly benefit that would actually have been payable under the Retirement Plan if the benefit had been paid at the same time and in the same form as the Participant's supplemental benefit; and
(ii)                    the monthly benefit (or actuarial equivalent thereof if payable in a lump sum) that would actually have been payable under the Consolidated Rail Corporation Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan or its successor plan if the benefit had been paid at the same time and in the same form as the Participant's supplemental benefit.
2.         A Participant shall, upon the Participant's benefit commencement date, be entitled to receive a monthly benefit, in excess of the benefit that would otherwise be payable under the Retirement Plan if the benefit had been paid at the same time and in the same form as the Participant's supplemental benefit, and in addition to any amount payable pursuant to Section 1 of this Article IV, in an amount so provided by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of NSC, if any.
3.         If a Participant dies after the benefit commencement date for the supplemental benefit, any survivorship option which has been elected or is in force under Article III of the Plan at the time of a Participant's death shall determine the benefit paid to the Participant's surviving spouse or other beneficiary.  If a Participant dies before the benefit commencement date for the supplemental benefit, the Participant's surviving spouse shall receive an annuity for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the later of the last day of the month in which the Participant would have reached age 55 or the last day of the  month in which the Participant died, calculated using the method set forth in Section 1 of this Article IV, but substituting the corresponding survivor benefit under the Retirement Plan for the Participant's retirement benefit.
4.          A payment is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made on the due date specified by the Plan, or on a later date that is either (i) in the same calendar year (for a payment whose specified due date is on or before September 30), or (ii) by the 15th day of the third calendar month following the date specified by the Plan (for a payment whose specified due date is on or after October 1).  A payment also is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made not more than 30 days before the due date specified by the Plan, provided that a payment under Section 5 of Article III shall not be made earlier than six months after a Specified Employee's Separation From Service.  A Participant or beneficiary may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of a payment made in reliance on the administrative rules in this paragraph.
 
 
  
ARTICLE V.
FUNDING
 
The benefits under the Plan shall be paid in cash from the general funds of NSC or its Participating Subsidiary, and no special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure such payments.  Nothing contained in the Plan shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments under the terms of the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured creditor of NSC or its Participating Subsidiary.
 
 
 
ARTICLE VI.
ADMINISTRATION
1.         The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee, which is composed of three or more NSC directors appointed by the NSC Board who are not eligible to participate in the Plan and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.  Each member of the Compensation Committee, while serving as such, shall be considered to be acting in his capacity as a director of NSC.
2.         The Compensation Committee shall from time to time adopt rules and regulations determined to be necessary to insure the effective implementation of the Plan.
3.         The Compensation Committee shall have the power to interpret the Plan.  Any disputed question arising under the Plan, including questions of construction and interpretation, shall be determined conclusively and finally by the Compensation Committee.
 
 
 
ARTICLE VII.
RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS
1.         Participants in the Plan shall have only those rights in respect of the Plan specifically set forth herein.
2.         This Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract between NSC or any Participating Company and any Participant or surviving spouse of a deceased Participant, nor shall it be construed to be consideration for or an inducement or condition of the employment of any Participant.  Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to give any Participant the right to continued employment.
3.         Benefits payable hereunder shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to accomplish any of these mentioned acts shall be void.  Benefits shall not be subjected to attachment or other legal process or debts of the retired Participant or surviving spouse.
4.         The Plan is intended, and shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.  NSC does not warrant that the Plan will comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment, however.  In no event shall NSC, its officers, directors, employees, parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or beneficiary as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, or as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy any other applicable requirements for the deferral of tax.
 
 
 
ARTICLE VIII.
AMENDMENTS AND TERMINATIONS
The Plan may be amended at any time, and retroactively, if deemed necessary or appropriate, by any proper officer of NSC to effect changes which are, in his or her sole discretion, ministerial, substantively administrative, or necessary to comply with statutory or other legally mandated requirements, and the implementation of which does not result in a material cost to NSC.
            The Board or Directors of NSC, in its sole discretion, may at any time modify or amend any provisions of the Plan or may suspend or terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, but no such action shall retroactively impair or otherwise adversely affect the rights of any person to benefits under the Plan which have accrued prior to the date of such action, as determined by the Compensation Committee.
            In no event shall a termination of the Plan accelerate the distribution of amounts accrued or vested under the Plan in calendar year 2005 and succeeding years, except to the extent permitted in regulations or other guidance under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and expressly provided in the resolution terminating the Plan.


