FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20090604103701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On June 3, 2009, the Registrant hosted an Investor Day in Atlanta, Georgia, during which members of management provided information regarding various aspects of the Registrants business.  The text and accompanying slides of presentations made by certain Executive Vice Presidents of the Registrant are included as exhibits to this Form 8-K.  The archived webcastincluding questions and answersand all slides are available on the Registrants website, , under the Investors section. 
www.nscorp.com
Statements about future results made in the materials filed with this Form 8-K as exhibits constitute forward-looking statements that may be identified by the use of words like believe, expect, anticipate and project.   Forward-looking statements reflect managements good-faith evaluation of information currently available.  However, such statements are dependent on and, therefore, can be influenced by, a number of external variables over which management has little or no control, including: domestic and international economic conditions; interest rates; the business environment in industries that produce and consume rail freight; competition and consolidation within the transportation industry; fluctuation in prices or availability of key materials, in particular diesel fuel; labor difficulties, including strikes and work stoppages; legislative and regulatory developments; changes in securities and capital markets; disruptions to the Registrants technology infrastructure, including its computer systems; and natural events such as severe weather, hurricanes and floods.   For more discussion about each risk factor, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in the Registrants Dec. 31, 2008, Form 10-K, and any updates contained in subsequent Forms 10-Q.   Forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as, a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performance or results will be achieved.  As a result, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements.   The Registrant undertakes no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements.
The materials filed with this Form 8-K include non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by SEC Regulation G, which are reconciled on the Registrants website and on Exhibit 99.5 to this Form 8-K.  Specifically, the materials refer to the measures free cash flow, return on invested capital and total shareholder distributions.  See Exhibit 99.5 to this Form 8-K for the reasons the Registrants management believes they provide useful information to investors regarding the Registrants financial condition and results of operations.  These measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on
Form 8-K
:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
SIGNATURES (Registrant)
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
Name:  Howard D. McFadden Title:    Corporate Secretary
/s/ Howard D. McFadden                        
Date:  June 4, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.5
 
Information presented at NS' Investor Day in Atlanta on June 3, 2009 (posted elsewhere on our website), included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by SEC Regulation G. Specifically, three non-GAAP performance measures were presented: free cash flow, return on invested capital and total shareholder distributions. Free cash flow, which is defined by NS as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, is a measure of cash flow available for distribution to shareholders or for other investing or financing activities. Return on invested capital (ROIC) is defined by NS as net income plus interest expense (net of tax benefit) divided by average long-term debt, including current maturities, plus average stockholders' equity. As shown below, these amounts have been adjusted for operating leases, which allows comparisons between companies that have divergent proportions of leased versus owned assets. NS believes that ROIC is useful in evaluating whether its capital investments are generating shareholder value. Total shareholder distributions are the sum of dividends plus share repurchases, and the measure is useful in providing a more complete picture of distributions to NS shareholders. Non-GAAP performance measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Note  Prior to the Conrail Corporate Reorganization (which was completed on August 27, 2004), NS operated the routes and assets of a Conrail Inc. subsidiary, Pennsylvania Lines LLC (PRR), and made substantial payments to PRR under the terms of operating and lease agreements. These payments were included in the expense line item "Conrail rents and services" and, therefore, were a use of cash in "Cash provided by operating activities." A significant portion of these payments were borrowed back from a PRR subsidiary under a long-term note and, therefore, was a source of cash in "Proceeds from borrowings." This note was effectively extinguished by the Reorganization. Subsequent to the Reorganization, payments under "Conrail rents and services" declined, depreciation charges increases, and the net borrowings terminated. Accordingly, NS cash provided by operating activities after the Reorganization increased.


